CREDIT NUMBER 1992 SE
Project Agreement
(Second Small Rural Operations Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ASSOCIATION SENEGALAISE POUR LA
PROMOTION DES PETITS PROJETS
DE DEVELOPPEMENT A LA BASE
Dated  \  A-          ,1997


﻿CREDIT NUM1BER 1992 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            vt <4^                       , 1997, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
ASSOCIATION SENEGALAISE POUR LA PROMOTION DES PETITS PROJETS DE
DEVELOPPEMENT A LA BASE ("ASPRODEB").
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of April 3, 1989, as
amended by a letter, dated July 25, 1994, and by an Agreement Providing for Amendment
and Restatement of Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the Association (the Development Credit
Agreement), the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twelve milli6n Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that ASPRODEB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)    by a convention to be entered into between the Borrower and ASPRODEB
(the Convention), the proceeds of the Credit provided toi under,the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to ASPRODEB on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Convention; and
WHEREAS ASPRODEB, in consideration of the Association entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional term has the following meaning, namely that"fiscal year" means ASPRODEB's
fiscal year which starts January 1 and ends December 31.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ASPRODEB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project,
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwis agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ASPRODEB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
ASPRODEB shall:
(i)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Association and ASPRODEB, a plan for the
future operation of the Project;
(ii)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with ASPRODEB on said plan; and
(iii)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account
the Association's comments thereon.
Section 2.04. ASPRODEB shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Convention. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ASPRODEB shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Convention or any provision thereof.


﻿-3 -
Section 2.05. (a) ASPRODEB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Convention, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b)    ASPRODEB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ASPRODEB of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Convention.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ASPRODEB
Section 3.01. ASPRODEB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and agricultural practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ASPRODEB shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, financial and agricultural
practices.
Section 3.03. ASPRODEB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ASPRODEB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)    ASPRODEB shall:
(i)    have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association;


﻿-4-
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon
which the Agreement Providing for Amendment and Restatement of the Development
Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
ASPRODEB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)   the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify ASPRODEB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and-
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this


﻿-5-
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                     248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.             64145 (MCI)
For ASPRODEB:
Association S&n6galaise pour la
Promotion des Petits Projets de
D6veloppement A la Base
B.P. 3801
Rue 2X Boulevard de 'Est - Point E
Dakar, Senegal


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ASPRODEB, or by
ASPRODEB on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be
taken or executed by the President of the Board of Directors of ASPRODEB or such other
person or persons as the President of the Board of Directors of ASPRODEB shall designate
in writing, and ASPRODEB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /6                            aZ .06L
Regional Vice President
Africa
ASSOCIATION SENEGALAISE POUR LA
PROMOTION DES PETITS PROJETS DE
DEVELOPPEMENT A LA BASE
By/A uthoriLL                        Re p  esett
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


