                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR2523



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (TF-93653)



                                         ON A

                     GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 1.5 MILLION


                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                         FOR A

                       GEOFUND 2 - GEOTHERMAL PROJECT

     IN SUPPORT OF THE GEOTHERMAL ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                 (ADAPTABLE LENDING PROGRAM PHASE II)



                                      March 5, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective March 12, 2013)

                     Currency Unit = Armenian Dram (AMD)
                               AMD405 = US$1
                              US$0.0025 = AMD1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 – December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

3D      Three dimensional
APL     Adaptable Program Loan
ASRA    Accounting Standards of the Republic of Armenia
BOT     Board of Trustees
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Review
EA      Environmental Assessment
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
FM      Financial Management
FMM     Financial Management Manual
FMR     Financial Management Report
GEO     Global Environmental Objective
GEF     Global Environmental Facility
GHG     Green House Gas
GPN     General Procurement Notice
GPOBA   Global Partnership on Output-based Aid
IDA     International Development Association
IFR     Interim Unaudited Financial Report
ISDS    Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
JBIC    Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
MOE     Ministry of Energy
MT      Magneto-telluric
MW      Megawatt
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PDO     Project Development Objective
PEFA    Public Expenditure Financial Accountability Assessment
PFM     Public Financial Management
PFS     Project Financial Statements
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSRC    Public Services Regulatory Commission
R2E2    Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency
REP   Renewable Energy Project
SOE   Statement of Expenditures
TA    Technical Assistance
UHP   Urban Heating Project




                        Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou
                      Country Director:   Henry R. Kerali
                       Sector Manager:    Ranjit J. Lamech
                  Project Team Leader:    Ani Balabanyan
                     ICR Team Leader:     Arthur Kochnakyan
                  ICR Primary Author:     Arsen Petrosyan
                             ARMENIA
              GEOFUND 2: ARMENIA GEOTHERMAL PROJECT


                                    CONTENT


A. Basic Information…………………………………………………………….....i
B. Key Dates………………………………………………………………………..i
C. Ratings Summary………………………………………………………………..i
D. Sector and Theme Codes………………………………………………………..ii
E. Bank Staff……………………………………………………………………….ii
F. Results Framework Analysis……………………………………………………ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs……………………………………......iv
H. Restructuring ………………………………………………………………..….v
I. Disbursement Graph…………………………………………………………….v

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design…………………...1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes…………………………..4
3. Assessment of Outcomes………………………………………………………... 6
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome………………………………… 10
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance…………………………….… 12
6. Lessons Learned………………………………………………………………... 12
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners….. 13

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing……………………………………………...17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component……………………………………………….......18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis…………………………………….......27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes……..28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results…………………………………………….... 29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results………………………………30
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft CR…………... 32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders……………36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents…………………………………………...37

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          GEOFUND 2:
                                                                          ARMENIA
Country:                Armenia                 Project Name:
                                                                          GEOTHERMAL
                                                                          PROJECT
Project ID:             P114409                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-93653
ICR Date:               03/04/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ARMENIA
Original Total
                        USD 1.50M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 1.24M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 1.24M
Environmental Category: C                       Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:         06/16/2008   Effectiveness:             04/30/2009       04/22/2009
Appraisal:              07/15/2008   Restructuring(s):                           06/29/2010
Approval:               02/24/2009   Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   04/30/2011       09/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory




                                                i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
          Bank                 Ratings              Borrower                           Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory     Government:                             Satisfactory
                                              Implementing
Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory                                             Satisfactory
                                              Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
                             Satisfactory                                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                  Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                               Rating
       Performance                                    any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of Supervision
                          No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                      Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other Renewable Energy                                                100                   100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                          100                    100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:           Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:         Henry G. R. Kerali                    Asad Alam
Sector Manager:           Ranjit J. Lamech                      Gary Stuggins
Project Team Leader:      Ani Balabanyan                        Ani Balabanyan
ICR Team Leader:          Artur Kochnakyan
ICR Primary Author:       Arsen Petrosyan




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The project development objective is to assess the feasibility of exploratory drilling of the
geothermal site with the estimated highest geothermal potential.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority) and
Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
N/A




(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                  Values (from                          Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                     approval                          Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                    documents)                          Target Years
                 Decision whether to drill or not to do drill exploratory wells for the geothermal sites,
Indicator 1 :
                 based on the results of site investigation works.
                                                                                    The Government
Value                                          "drill" or "not to                   decided to drill
(quantitative or N/A                           drill" decision                      exploratory wells at
Qualitative)                                   made                                 the Karkar
                                                                                    geothermal site
Date achieved 03/16/2009                       04/30/2011                           09/30/2012
Comments
                 100% achievement. The achievement is due to results of studies confirming
(incl. %
                 likelihood of existence of geothermal resource at Karkar site.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                Values (from                           Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                   approval                          Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                 documents)                           Target Years
                 Surface geological map is produced containing fault structures, potential recharging
Indicator 1 :
                 zones and surface geological manifestations.
                                             Surface geological                   Surface geological
Value                                        map is produced                      map was produced
(quantitative or N/A                         with proposed areas                  with proposed areas
Qualitative)                                 for further                          for further
                                             investigations                       investigations
Date achieved 03/16/2009                     04/30/2011                           09/30/2012
Comments
                 100% achievement. The results were achieved due to good quality results of field
(incl. %
                 scouting and magneto-telluric (MT)sounding studies.
achievement)
                 Two cross sections with the visualization of the rock formation resistivity are
Indicator 2 :
                 produced; also the need for performing 3D seismic is assessed.
Value                                        Two cross sections                   Two cross sections
                 N/A
(quantitative or                             are produced and                     were produced and

                                                   iii
Qualitative)                                  the justification for              the justification for
                                              3D survey is                       3D survey was
                                              assessed                           assessed
Date achieved    03/16/2009                   04/30/2011                         09/30/2012
Comments
                 100% achievement. The MT sounding study and interpretation of MT study results
(incl. %
                 generated the required information and data.
achievement)
                 3D images of site subsurface structure with main fault zones and the depth, extent
Indicator 3 :    and thickness of permeable zones are produced; at least 3 cross sections, of N-S
                 orientation and 3 of E-W orientation are prepared. Drilling decision is supported.


                                              3D images of the                   3D images of the
                                              site subsurface                    site subsurface
                                              structure are                      structure were
                                              produced; and the                  produced; and the
                                              cross sections are                 cross sections were
Value
                                              prepared.                          prepared.
(quantitative or N/A
                                              Justification,                     Justification,
Qualitative)
                                              number, depth and                  number, depth and
                                              precise locations of               precise locations of
                                              potential                          potential exploratory
                                              exploratory wells is               wells were
                                              determined.                        determined.
Date achieved 03/16/2009                      04/30/2011                         09/30/2012
Comments         100% achievement. The 3D MT study and independent interpretation of results
(incl. %         generated the required 3D images of subsurface structures and provided the required
achievement) data to make a decision on exploratory drilling at the Karkar site.
                 The economic and financial rates of return are assessed and sensitivity analysis
Indicator 4 :
                 conducted.
                                                                                 The economic and
Value                                         The economic and
                                                                                 financial analysis for
(quantitative or N/A                          financial analysis is
                                                                                 the Karkar site was
Qualitative)                                  completed.
                                                                                 completed.
Date achieved 03/16/2009                      04/30/2011                         09/30/2012
Comments         100% achievement. The economic and financial analysis of the potential geothermal
(incl. %         plant at the Karkar site was completed in timely manner to allow the Government to
achievement) make a final decision on exploratory drilling.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              GEO                             IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1      06/22/2009            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.00
  2      10/14/2009            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.34
  3      04/23/2010            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.61
  4      10/09/2010            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.61
  5      03/24/2011            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.62
  6      08/12/2011            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.64


                                                   iv
  7    05/25/2012           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.98
  8    08/12/2012           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    1.31
  9    09/25/2012           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    1.31

H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                   Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring &
                  Approved
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring         Key Changes Made
                 GEO Change GEO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           The project was restructured to
                                                           replace 3D seismic study of the
                                                           Karkar field with 3D MT
                                                           sounding study given the geology
                                                           specifics identified during early
  06/29/2010         N        S       S           0.61
                                                           phases of field studies. Moreover,
                                                           closing date was extended by
                                                           seventeen months to allow
                                                           sufficient time for completion of
                                                           the 3D MT study.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                             v
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The Republic of Armenia has limited energy resources to satisfy its needs. Armenia does not
have fossil fuel reserves. Thermal and nuclear power generation account for about 60% of the
total electricity generation in Armenia and the country imports all of the fuel required for the
operation of thermal and nuclear plants.

A decade of reforms in the country’s energy sector produced impressive results. The sector’s
financial performance greatly improved turning it into one of the largest tax payers in the
country; the payment discipline became robust; losses were reduced from around 20 percent of
supply to 13 percent, and the overall efficiency and quality of supply have improved. Over 70
percent of generation assets and distribution are privately owned and there is a competent and
independent regulatory agency for the sector.

At appraisal stage, Armenia was estimated to have adequate electricity generation capacity to
meet its demand (the peak load was around 1,200 MW in winter), however, operating limitations,
supply uncertainties, ageing and conditions of generation facilities and inadequate peak load
capacity could have jeopardized Armenia’s ability to sufficiently meet both domestic and export
demand in the future. In addition, as demand was expected to grow 2-3 percent annually,
Armenia was estimated to require new generation capacity and rehabilitation of the existing
capacity in order to continue to meet future needs.

At appraisal, the Government prioritized development of indigenous renewable energy resources
in Armenia as a means to increase energy diversification and achieve a higher degree of energy
security. The Energy Law, the Law on Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency and the Energy
Sector Strategy clearly articulated the importance of renewable resources and provided a
framework for facilitating their development. Overall, the legal and regulatory framework in the
country had been supportive to the development of renewable energy. The electricity off-take is
guaranteed for 15 years for each small renewable plant; and at the time of appraisal, the Public
Services Regulatory Commission (PSRC) guaranteed the following tariffs for the same period:
US$ 0.056/kWh for newly constructed small hydro power plants on natural water flows,
US$ 0.115/kWh for wind and US$ 0.108/kWh for biomass.

Armenia was estimated to have 740 megawatt (MW) of small hydropower, wind and geothermal
resources. The results of studies to estimate the geothermal potential of the country suggested a
high likelihood of the existence of geothermal resources, which could be used for electricity
generation purposes. The optimism was justified by the broad presence of young volcanic areas,
numerous outcrops of mineral waters and the activity of tectonic-magmatic processes with
relatively small geological age. Additionally, there were regions with abnormally high values of
geothermal gradient and heat flow densities. Based on the results of studies on the identification
of prospective geothermal sites and subsequent discussions with international and local experts,
the following prospective sites for further comprehensive field investigation works were
proposed: (1) Karkar site, located on the Syunik plateau in the South Eastern part of Armenia,
and (2) Gridzor site, located on the Gegham mountain plateau along the Western shore of Lake


                                                1
Sevan. While the abovementioned preliminary studies were encouraging regarding the overall
potential of the country for the development of geothermal resources, actual field investigations
of specific sites had either not been undertaken or were very limited in scope. Therefore,
because of the lack of thorough site investigation works and no confirmed deposits, the private
sector’s interest in development of geothermal energy resources in Armenia was limited.

The project was well aligned with the strategic objectives of the Government as stipulated in the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) adopted by the Government in October 2003. The
PRSP emphasized the need for policy reforms in five key areas, including promotion of private
sector development and improvement of public infrastructure. More specifically, the PRSP
emphasized the importance of maintaining and strengthening energy independence by
developing indigenous and alternative energy sources and promoting energy efficiency. The
project was also consistent with the CAS objective of promoting private sector growth by
strengthening the financial sector and reducing infrastructure bottlenecks.

1.2 Original Project Development (PDO) and Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and
Key Indicators (as approved)
The project development objective (PDO) was to assess the feasibility of exploratory drilling of
the geothermal site with the estimated highest geothermal potential.

The global environmental objective (GEO) of the project was to remove the barriers to
development of geothermal energy

The key performance indicator at appraisal was the decision whether to drill or not to drill
exploratory wells for the geothermal sites, based on the results of site investigation works.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The GEO and key performance indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main project beneficiary was the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (MENR). The
project supported a number of complex geo-technical investigation works and preliminary
economic/financial analysis of the potential geothermal power plant. Those studies generated a
wealth of geological and other information that were required for the MENR to make an
informed decision on whether or not to pursue exploratory drilling of the prospective site.
Additionally, the project indirectly benefited the local geological institutes and research centers
through knowledge spill-over effects. Specifically, during project implementation those scientific
institutions became familiar with modern techniques for geothermal field investigation works
and acquired the outputs generated from those studies, which significantly enriched their
knowledge base.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)




                                                2
Component 1: Technical assistance (US1.8 million, including GeoFund financing of US$ 1.5
million and Government co-financing of US$0.3 million) to conduct comprehensive
investigations works. This component covered the following areas:

A. Technical Investigation (estimated at US$1.74 million): The field investigation works at
Karkar and Gridzor geothermal sites were to be carried out in two phases. The second
investigation phase depended on the results of the first and was planned to be carried out only if
the results were positive enough to justify additional studies.

Phase I included: (i) geological field works (scouting), 1 (ii) magneto-telluric (MT) sounding
study, (iii) interpretation of the results of the MT sounding; and (iv) supervision of the
implementation of the scope of geological field works and MT sounding study.

Phase II included: (i) a three dimensional (3D) seismic survey of the most prospective of the two
geothermal sites, (ii) interpretation of the results of 3D seismic studies; (iii) supervision of the
implementation of the scope of 3D seismic study; and (iv) assessment of the economic and
financial viability of the geothermal site with the highest estimated technical potential.

B. Project Implementation (estimated at US$ 60,000): Financing of the incremental operating
costs of the implementing agency for this project.

1.6 Revised Components
The original project components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
First restructuring: In the letter dated May 5, 2010, the Government requested to restructure the
project to allow a change in the investigation method based on the results of the Phase I site
investigation works. The 3D seismic study of the Karkar site was replaced with a 3D MT
sounding study. The Government justified the restructuring on technical grounds. Specifically,
the Government informed the Bank that the results of MT study suggested that a 3D MT
sounding study will generate more reliable data and information regarding the potential of the
Karkar site than 3D seismic survey given the geological characteristics of the site assessed
during the first phase of exploration works.

Second restructuring: In the letter dated November 25, 2010, the Government requested the Bank
to extend the closing date of the project from April 30, 2011 to September 30, 2012. The
extension was necessary given the need for more time to implement the 3D MT study and missed
field work days due to the seasonal nature of investigation works. The Bank concurred with the
Government’s request and the closing date was extended to September 30, 2012.




1
  Geological field scouting includes identification and mapping of fault structures, potential recharging zones, and
recording and description of surface geothermal manifestations like hot and mineral springs, fumaroles and zones
with hydro thermally alternated rocks.


                                                          3
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The key factors that contributed to project achievements are presented below.

Soundness of project preparation work: The project preparation included a number of
consultations and round-tables with local scientific institutions (e.g. Geology Institute under the
National Academy of Sciences) and international geothermal experts providing guidance in
developing the scope of the project and discussing the main risks limiting private investors’
interest in geothermal energy for power generation purposes.
Therefore, the project was well focused on key obstacle that reduce private sector interest in
geothermal energy, i.e. confirmed availability of geothermal resource in form of hot water or hot
dry rock. The project design also benefited from the experience of the Bank and GEF in
implementation of geothermal projects in other countries. Specifically, the study drew upon the
lessons learned in implementation of geothermal district heating projects in Lithuania (Klaipeda)
and Poland (Podhale, Stargard).

Assessment of adequacy of project design: The PDO/GEO was well-defined and realistic. The
PDO/GEO was well aligned with one of the main objectives of the FY 2005-2008 CAS for
Armenia – promoting private sector growth by reducing infrastructure bottlenecks. The project
components and key outcome indicators were consistent with the PDO/GEO. The project design
was simple and clear as the project had one major component covering the key geo-technical
studies and economic/financial assessments required to reach the project objective. The design of
the project took into account the best practice international experience with field investigation
works and split the TA into two phases with the second-phase of studies triggered if the first
phase results warranted continuation. One organization was involved in project implementation,
the Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency Fund, under the guidance of the MENR.
However, several scientific institutions were planned to be consulted during the project
implementation to discuss the main findings of the geo-technical studies. The project activities
were implemented for two sites in two Marzes (administrative-territorial units) of Armenia –
Gridzor site in Gegharqunik region in the North-East and Karkar site in Syuniq region in the
South.

Adequacy of the Government commitment: Commitment to and ownership of the project was
strong during the project preparation and implementation. The Government repeatedly confirmed
its willingness to pursue exploratory drilling of the geothermal site, which will be estimated to be
the most promising of the two sites investigated under this project.

Assessment of risks: Assessment of risks was adequate and reasonable. There were no major
risks, as highlighted by the Bank team during the appraisal that affected the project
implementation and achievement of development objective.

2.2 Implementation
Implementation of the project was sound and without major delays. The project was
implemented mostly according to the planned schedule and the only delay was caused due to
substitution of 3D seismic study, as planned under the project, with the 3D MT sounding study.


                                                 4
The change was required based on the findings of the MT study given the geological
characteristics of the site. All of the project’s planned activities were implemented and the
project funds were disbursed as planned. There were savings of around US$257,000 under the
project. However, those savings were due to the replacement of the 3D seismic study with the 3D
MT study, which had a lower cost.

The following key factors contributed to a successful implementation of the project:

• Timely restructuring of the project to reflect the change in the project requirements: Despite a
  robust initial design, the project was restructured to replace one of the site investigation
  methods with another, which better reflected the site characteristics revealed during the Phase
  I of the site investigation works.

• Continuous Government commitment: The Government remained committed to the project
  objectives during project implementation. In addition, throughout implementation the key
  counterpart, the MENR, provided the needed support to facilitate implementation and resolve
  various project related issues.

• Effective and professional project implementing agency: The project implementing agency
  had experienced project management, fiduciary and technical staff and ensured effective and
  timely implementation and sound supervision of the project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The MENR supervised the overall Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency (R2E2) Fund
activities within the scope of the project and ensured that those were well aligned with the policy
objectives of the Government’s renewable energy policies and objectives.

The R2E2 Fund 2 was responsible for project implementation and for monitoring of project
outcomes. The key outcome indicators for the project were well-defined and relevant to the PDO
and consistent with the project components. However, baseline data for key outcome indicators
was not available at appraisal. The data for the project outcome and the results indicators was
acquired from the reports submitted by the consultants implementing geological field scouting,
MT, 3D MT and pre-feasibility stage economic/financial appraisal of the conceptual geothermal
power plant.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environmental and Social Safeguards: No safeguard policies were triggered by the project. This
is due to the fact that activities under the project included support of geological and geo-
technical field investigation works with very minor environmental impact, data processing and
interpretation services as well as operating costs of the implementing agency.



2
  The R2E2 Fund is a non-profit organization established by the Government Decree No. 799 dated April 28, 2005,
with the mandate to promote the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency markets in Armenia and to
facilitate investments in these sectors.


                                                       5
Procurement: Procurement under the project was carried out in accordance with the project
design and in compliance with the Bank’ procurement rules and guidelines stipulated in the
Grant Agreement. The R2E2 Fund had adequate procurement capacity with a qualified
Procurement Specialist and a reliable procurement filing system. The bidding documents,
evaluation reports and contracts were prepared and presented in an adequate and timely manner.
No major procurement issues were identified during project’s implementation.

Financial Management: The project’s financial management (FM) arrangements, including
planning and budgeting, accounting, internal controls, funds flow, auditing, and financial
reporting, were consistently rated as satisfactory during the life of the project. The auditors
provided unmodified opinions on the project’s financial statements throughout the life of the
project, which were received on time. No major issues were reported by the auditor in the
management letters. The project’s IFRs were also submitted to the Bank on time and were
generally found acceptable.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Given that this project financed only technical assistance activities and incremental costs of the
implementing entity, there is no need for financial, technical, commercial or institutional
provisions to ensure effective project operation. Nevertheless, the Government should consider
the below post-completion operations to ensure that technical investigations are not outdated and
that their findings are implemented.

Exploratory drilling at Karkar site: The findings of studies justify drilling of a maximum of two
wells with maximum depth of 2,000 meters at the Karkar site to test availability of the resource.
If the first well confirms the availability of high-temperature (250o C and more) resource, then
there will be no need to drill the second well. The Government should consider financing the
exploratory drilling, estimated to cost around US$4 million, from its own funds possibly also
coupled with donor support. Without confirmation of resources, the risk for the private sector
would be prohibitively high to consider any type of participation. The Government is currently
seeking financing for exploratory drilling.

Construction of a geothermal power plant pending outcomes of exploratory drilling: If
exploratory drilling confirms availability of an economically and financially viable geothermal
resource, then the Government should consider constructing a geothermal power plant at the
Karkar site. The pre-feasibility stage economic and financial assessments of the Karkar’s
geothermal potential suggest that a geothermal power plant built at the Karkar site could be an
economically viable power supply option for Armenia, if a geothermal resource with a
temperature of 300°C exists at the site. Such a resource could support a Flash Cycle Design
geothermal plant with an installed capacity of around 30 MW and an estimated annual electricity
generation of 240 million kWh. The total capital investment cost is estimated at around US$100
million.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation




                                                6
The project is relevant to current priorities of the country and the Bank’s Country Partnership
Strategy. In particular, the project is well aligned with the Energy Sector Strategy (2006) and the
National Program on Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency (2007), which prioritize
development of renewable energy as a means of improving the country’s energy security and
ensuring sustainable energy supply.

The project objective is consistent with the current development priorities as reflected in the
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) with Armenia for FY 2009-2012. One of the key objectives
of the current CPS is to strengthen the foundations for competitiveness through investments in
new power generation capacity, including renewable energy.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environmental Objectives
Achievement of the PDO and GEO is rated Satisfactory. The project succeeded in meeting the
specified objectives and the outcome indicators. Specifically, the Government made an informed
decision, based on the results and findings of this project, to proceed with exploratory drilling of
the Karkar geothermal site.

The project met the PDO and GEO through:

1.      Provision to the Government of important geological and technical information to
facilitate decision-making regarding technical expediency of exploratory drilling. The field
investigation works under the project generated important geological and technical information
for the Government to make a decision to proceed with exploratory drilling of the Karkar
geothermal site. Specifically, the project financed:

(i)     Geological field scouting for Karkar and Gridzor sites: The scouting works included
description of the site volcanism; assessment of geological faults, geochemical analysis of water;
geochemical analysis of soil, air and water; identification of and description of other
manifestation of geothermal activity and development of the structural volcanological model of
the sites. Surface geological map of the Karkar and Gridzor sites were produced with detailed
description of fault structures, potential recharging zones and the surface geological
manifestations. The above field scouting works indicated that the sites were very likely to be of
geothermal nature.

The geological field scouting works helped to identify the location and length of profiles for MT
sounding study. The structural and geological factors, data from earlier studies, accessibility of
the site and maximum effectiveness in terms of interpretation were considered to choose the 12
km-long MT profile for the Karkar site. The results obtained from the МТ survey demonstrated
good quality and were of considerable interest for further interpretation. The choice of geometry
of the МТ survey profile for the Gridzor Site was dictated primarily by the local terrain. The
processing and interpretation of data collected from the 3.9 km-long MT profile indicated good
quality of the data that are of interest for further interpretation (see Annex 2 for details).

(ii)   MT sounding of Karkar and Gridzor sites: This included acquisition, processing and
modeling of MT/TEM (Transient Electromagnetic Sounding) data for the MT profiles identified
during geological field scouting works.


                                                 7
TEM data were processed and modeled to provide near-surface resistivity information to the
subsequent interpretation. The collected and processed MT/TEM data was used to develop
inversion algorithm and construct 1D and 2D inversion models for Karkar and Gridzor sites,
which visualized the rock formation resistivity and provided justification for further site
investigation works.

(iii) Independent interpretation of the results of the MT sounding study: Interpretation of the
MT and TEM data acquired during the MT study was conducted by a company different from
the one, which implemented the MT study, to ensure unbiased estimates on whether the two sites
are prospective. Specifically, the independent interpretation of the MT sounding study results
concluded that the Karkar site had greater potential and further studies were recommended to be
conducted only for the Karkar site. The MT modelling for the Karkar site identified a conductor
approximately 600 meters thick and oriented South-West to North-East, with base roughly at
depths of 1,000 – 1,250 meters (detailed justification as to why Karkar is more prospective is
presented in Annex 2).

(iv)    3D inversion modeling of MT data, gravimetric and CO2 gas surveys for Karkar site: The
total study area included 27 km.2 The MT data from 150 soundings for the Karkar site was
inverted for resistivity structure through the 3D MT inversion model. The 3D inversion modeling
helped to prepare 3D images of the site subsurface structures, as well as three cross-sections of
North-South orientation and three cross-sections of West-East orientation. Interpretation of
results of the 3D MT modeling helped to develop the conceptual geothermal model of the Karkar
site (with indication of likely temperatures of the geothermal resource), assess the likely
reservoir and related technical parameters as well as propose location of exploratory wells.

(v)     Independent interpretation of 3D MT, gravimetric and CO2 survey results for the Karkar
site: The independent interpretation included joint interpretation of all interim models for the
Karkar site, including MT, and allowed the Government to: (a) verify the earlier information on
main fault zones; (b) assess the depth, extent and thickness of permeable zones, (c) confirm
geothermal aquifers; (d) identify layers and their dimensions; and (e) propose location of sites for
exploratory drilling. In particular, interpretation of results resulted in the following main
conclusions for the Karkar site:

a. Two different conceptual geothermal models or their combination might exist for the Karkar
   site:

   Model A: Model A assumes that low resistance is not present in the geothermal zones of
   interest. In such a case, Model ? would provide only for a diffuse source of heat and
   characterizes the field as a reservoir of moderately warm waters (less than 100оС).

   Model В: Model B assumes that low resistance may be present in geothermal zones of
   interest. In such a case, Model В would provide for a localized high-temperature source of
   heat. Along with this, some of the layers could be characterized as a reservoir of high-
   temperature water (more than 250оС).




                                                 8
b. Exploratory drilling at Karkar was recommended with more precise locations of drilling sites
   to be determined with pre-drilling reconnaissance studies. Specifically, the Government was
   recommended to consider the following two exploratory wells:

   Exploration Well 2: This exploratory well should have a depth of not less than 1,500-1,800
   meters. It will enable the checking of Model A and Model B at the same time. If high-
   temperature water will be encountered in the course of drilling, this would imply credibility
   of Model В, or of a combined option of Models A and B. Therefore, the independent
   interpretation of 3D MT results recommended first to drill Exploration Well 2, and then, if
   resource is not confirmed, to drill the second well (Exploration Well 1). The proposed
   approximate location of the drilling area for Exploratory Well 2 (B2) is shown in Figures 2 in
   Annex 2.

   Exploration Well 1: Model ? assumed presence of a diffuse source of heat located beyond
   the limits of the Karkar site. To confirm availability of resource as per Model A, it would be
   necessary to drill an exploratory well. The exploratory well should be not less than 2,000
   meters deep. Drilling of such a borehole will enable to verify the availability of abnormal
   heating of monzonites assumed by the diffuse Model ?. The proposed approximate location
   of drilling area for Exploratory Well 1 (B1) is shown in Figure 2 in Annex 2.

2.      Preliminary assessment of economic and financial viability of the potential
geothermal plant at the Karkar site. The preliminary estimates of the economic and
financial viability of the potential geothermal plant coupled with the results of field
investigation works, enabled the Government to decide whether to proceed with
exploratory drilling. The project provided preliminary assessment of the economic and
financial viability of three conceptual types of potential geothermal plants at the Karkar site
given various assumptions for resource temperature and other reservoir parameters as estimated
by geo-technical surface studies. Those conceptual designs include Organic Rankine Cycle
design, Kalex design and Flash Cycle design.

Economic Viability: The project estimated that the geothermal power plant built at the Karkar
site would be an economically viable power supply option for Armenia if a geothermal resource
with a temperature of 300°C exists. The levelized economic cost (LEC) of the conceptual plant
design created to utilize a resource at this temperature – the Flash Cycle plant - was estimated
US$0.067/kWh, which is below the estimated economic LEC of most of the supply options
available to Armenia.

Financial Viability: The Flash cycle design of the conceptual plant is the only design that would
require a tariff below the forecasted future average electricity supply cost in Armenia for both
public and commercial financing terms. The Flash cycle design of the geothermal plant would be
financially viable at a tariff of at least US$0.058/kWh, assuming public financing is available,
and at a tariff of US$0.095/kWh in case of commercial financing, whereas the long-run average
financial supply cost for Armenia is estimated to be in the range of US$0.047-0.120 c/kWh
depending on generation investment scenario and financing terms.

3.3 Efficiency


                                               9
No economic and financial appraisal was conducted at appraisal stage since the project financed
only technical assistance and incremental operating costs of the implementing entity, thus, the
project did not lend itself well to such evaluation. At completion, no economic and financial
appraisal was conducted either for the same reason. However, it should be noted that the project
funds yielded good value for money spent and the costs of exploration works were comparable to
the average costs of similar field investigation works for geothermal projects.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall outcome of the project is rated Satisfactory due to the high relevance of the project
and achievement of the project development objective as measured by the key performance
indicators. The project generated essential geological data and conducted preliminary assessment
of the economic and financial viability of the potential geothermal plant, which resulted in the
Government’s decision to proceed with exploratory drilling at the Karkar geothermal site.
Specifically, the field studies identified geothermal anomaly at the Karkar site and confirmed its
potential for geothermal energy. Moreover, those studies recommended drilling locations for
exploratory wells with the exact location to be determined during pre-drilling survey. Moreover,
the economic appraisal of the three conceptual geothermal plants confirmed that a Flash Cycle
type of plant would be one of the least-cost supply options for Armenia. Also, such a Flash Cycle
plant was estimated to require a tariff within the range of long-run electricity supply costs for
Armenia.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project did not have any planned or unexpected impacts on poverty, gender or social
development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project did not envisage any activities aimed at institutional change or strengthening.
However, some of the local scientific-research institution, specializing in geological field works,
participated as subcontractors for some of the field investigation works, which resulted in
knowledge spill-over effects with local institutions acquiring cutting edge knowledge, silks and
operating practices.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
The project did not have any other positive or negative unintended outcomes and impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
The main round-table held with beneficiaries focused discussions on the pertinence of
conducting a 3D seismic study for the Karkar geothermal site given the geological characteristics
identified during the MT study. As a result of the round-table, the Government made a decision
to replace the 3D seismic study with 3D MT sounding study.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low


                                                10
The risk that some changes might occur that could be detrimental to the outcomes of the project
or impact the development outcomes already achieved is low. The project did not support any
investments or policy, regulatory, legal or other changes, which may revert due to some
unanticipated or anticipated influence or impacts. The Government is very unlikely to change its
decision to pursue exploratory drilling given the findings of the technical studies suggesting a
high likelihood of a geothermal resource and economic/financial viability of a potential plant if
the resource turns out to be of high temperature.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank’s performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated
Satisfactory.

Most of the proposed field investigation works for the project were well tailored to the project
needs and site specifics, based on some preliminary information and data made available by the
Armenian geothermal and geology experts. The field investigation works proposed used well-
tested technologies. The project design took into account all of the existing results from earlier
geological, geo-physical and geo-chemical investigations conducted for the Jermakhbyur site
near the Karkar site.

The fiduciary arrangements under the project were sound. The financial management assessment
was detailed and identified the key FM risks and proposed adequate mitigation measures. The
procurement arrangements reflected the project design and were overall appropriate for a project
of this nature. The implementing agency had a clearly defined role and responsibilities as defined
in the charter and the Operational Manual (OM).

The implementation arrangements of the project were well-elaborated and considered the lessons
learned from similar projects. The monitoring and evaluation arrangements were adequate.


(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank’s performance during supervision is rated Satisfactory. The Bank team carried out nine
supervision missions during implementation of the project. The implementation issues
encountered were flagged and appropriate actions were undertaken to address them. The skill
mix of supervision missions ensured that all the key issues arising were adequately handled and
the Government received the needed advice and guidance. During the project implementation,
the task team composition did not change, which increased efficiency of the support provided to
the Government.

The fiduciary and safeguards aspects of the project were adequately supervised. The financial
management implementation support missions and procurement ex-post reviews were conducted
as scheduled. The implementation issues were discussed with the Government counterparts in a


                                               11
constructive manner and appropriate action plans were developed and agreed with the
Government.

Overall, the supervision missions provided a comprehensive assessment of the implementation
progress. The Aide-memoires and Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) were
detailed, well written and highlighted the key issues.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory. The Satisfactory rating of the Bank
performance of ensuring Quality at Entry and Satisfactory rating for Quality of Supervision
justify the overall Satisfactory performance of the Bank.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government performance is rated Satisfactory due to the Government’s strong commitment
to the achievement of the PDO and GEO and its substantial supporting role during project
preparation and implementation. There was close coordination and dialogue between the
Government counterparts and the Bank during implementation of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The R2E2 Fund’s performance is rated as Satisfactory. The R2E2 Fund was adequately staffed
and professionally managed to implement the project. Given the technically complex nature of
the project activities, the R2E2 Fund hired an experienced geothermal specialist to help supervise
the project activities, including review of the technically sophisticated reports produced by the
consultants. The geothermal specialist was involved in both phases of the project, which ensured
seamless implementation. The management of the project, including fiduciary aspects, were
handled with in a competent manner and were in compliance with Bank policies and procedures
given the adequately experienced financial management and procurement staff.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory due to the satisfactory performance of
the Government and the implementing agency.

6. Lessons Learned
The design and implementation of the project offered some lessons that might be useful in
preparation and implementation of similar projects:

Flexibility in types of field works projects can finance: The project design should allow
flexibility regarding the types of field investigation works that can be financed. In some cases,
results of field scouting and other basic field works might warrant a different type of follow-up
field study, which was not provided for in the project. Thus, if types of field investigation works
are strictly prescribed, then a project restructuring will be required, which may delay

                                                12
implementation of the project due to the time required for restructuring and subsequent
probability of missing the favorable weather conditions.

Procurement of technically sophisticated geo-technical studies should be initiated as early
as possible: Given the technically complex nature of some geo-technical studies and non-
availability of specialized firms in the local market as well as possible limited interest of
internationally renowned firms, it is advisable to start procurement of such studies as early as
possible. Otherwise, the consultant selection might result in very few or no bids for such
consultancy services, which may require rebidding and delay project implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Recipient reviewed the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and did not raise any
issues as reflected in the attached letter from the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources,
dated February 4, 2013.




                                              13
                                           ~USUUSUt.t" ~Ut.PU'llbSO~fO-SUt. t:t.bPq.bSt"~USt"                     b'-l
                                                         Pt.U~Ut.     ITIUCUPt.bPt" t.Utu UPUP



oo10. p.bflluull-10, <wt.r WIIItnn"lfiJwll
                                                                                    ~tJf:<.q, -tj£.J6-(3
.C::r~wl!. l.twnwt{wrwljwt.
.c::lnt. Sl-1 ~64. :bwpu 52-63-65
                                 1Mill2.                                                 ..3/. tJ/. l3;r .
t:(.ljlnWI: !!!nCf!Cfl!'!@mionrgy.am
..u.p '-!wlll: www.minenersx.am
                                       1
                                       ~CEIVED
                                             {} 4 FEB Z013
                                                                             <UlJUttuUr<USt>u PUu'-it> brb4.Uu t>
                                       BY:                                             c.trUUbuSU'-it> St.Orbut> dl ffl
                                                                                 St>'-it>u uut>ru LfbL..~nNJsuut>u
   ~bp   WB 326/1 2
   wn 08.01.2013

                                                         <wpqb'lft lll~~~lJ Ub(.l2nLUJW'tl
             <w llwzfuw phwJ~'tl                pwlJ~~       odwlJf'].w~mraJ wllp   ~pw~wllwgqwll     bp~flW2bflUWJ~'tl

   tlJhpqblll~~wJ~                bpwqp~ ~pw~wlJwguwlJ wqwplllw~wlJ                 hwzqhlllqmraJw'tl qhpwpbflJWL <<
   tllbrq.blll~ ~WJ ~             lL       pl.Jw~wlJ

   wnw2Wfl~nLjaJml.llJhp ~mlJ~:




                                                                                               Urlfbt. Lf04.Ut>U8Uv




   -.wu1u.y~nrt' tru2"JJl~4   $lbpnpJwll
   <:bn 32 32 73
                                                                                                                          \




                                                                        14
Translation of the Government letter

      MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND NATURAL
    RESOURCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
0010, Yerevan, Republic Square
N01/24.1/286-13
Government Building #2                                                        31.01.13
Tel: 52-19-64, Fax: 52-63-65
Email: minenergy@minenergy.am
URL: www.minenergy.am



                                                  To: Acting Country Manager of World Bank
                                                                     Armenia Country Office
                                                                      Ms. Naira Melkumyan




Dear Ms. Melkumyan

The Ministry of Energy and Nautral Resources does not have comments and suggestions on the
implementation completion report of the geothermal project implemented with the World Bank
support.




Regards


                                 Stamp and Signature               Armen Movsisyan




                                             15
(b) Co-financiers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                      16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                             Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
           Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                                millions)
A. Technical Investigation                      1.74                1.17                67%
B. Project Implementation                       0.06                0.07               117%

               Total Baseline Cost              1.80                1.50                83%
Physical Contingencies                          0.00                0.00               100%
Price Contingencies                             0.00                0.00               100%
                Total Project Costs
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)              0.00                0.00               100%
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00                0.00               100%
         Total Financing Required               1.80                1.50                83%




(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of Co-                                  Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                           financing                                    Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                Taxes           0.30           0.26           83%
Global Environment Facility (GEF)       Works           1.50           1.24           83%




                                                   17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Technical assistance to conduct comprehensive site investigation works. This
component supported the following main areas:

A. Technical Investigation (actual: US$1.17 million; estimated: US$1.74): The field
   investigation works were carried out in two phases. The second investigation phase depended
   on the results of the first and was carried out after the results of the first phase warranted
   further assessment of the site potential. The details of the specific outputs under each type of
   field work are presented below.

Phase 1: Geological field scouting: Geological field scouting included identification and
mapping of fault structures, potential recharging zones, and recording and description of surface
geothermal manifestations like hot and mineral springs, fumaroles and zones with hydro
thermally alternated rocks. The scouting resulted in the following main findings for Karkar and
Gridzor sites:

The main findings for the Gridzor site:

•   The western part of the Gridzor site accommodates a system of five faults shaping an arc
    locked in the north and south. The faults developed vertical scarps with the height of 50-70
    meters high. Faults located on the western and central sides of the arc have downthrown
    eastern walls, while the fault bounding the arc on the east has downthrown western walls.

•   To estimate deep water temperatures ТNa/K, TNa/Li and TNa-Ca-Mg geo-thermometers were used.
    The first two estimated high temperature values: 198.24°-296.62°С by ТNa/K and 266.62°С –
    516.9°С by ТNa/Li (the calculation was made for both mineralized and non-mineralized
    waters). However, the low temperature estimated by ТNa-Ca-Mg geo-thermometer did not
    permit a definitive choice of a reliable and realistic estimate of deep water temperature
    interval for this site. Certain methane and helium emissions were detected in the middle part
    of the profile at the Gridzor Site.

•   The analysis of satellite images taken from the thermal range revealed potential thermal
    anomalies in the upper reaches of the Gridzor canyon.

The main findings for the Karkar site:

•   A system of active strike-slip faults extends along the entire site in the north-south direction.
    It represents the western branch of a large pull-apart basin structure bounded on the flanks
    with a system of active strike-slip faults. Pronounced extension effects, which appear inside
    the pull-apart basin, might explain development of the Pleistocene and intense Holocene
    volcanism and could have created favorable structural conditions for formation of a
    geothermal reservoir.




                                                 18
•   Four geo-thermometers were applied to calculate deep water temperatures, inclusive of ТSiO2
    and ТNa/K. The results of these calculations indicated that 77°С -180°С is the most realistic
    temperature values for the spring water at a nearby site believed to be fed with from the same
    geothermal reservoir. No gas emanation anomaly was detected. The lack of gas emanations
    could be explained by cold and very moist weather conditions during the time of the survey.

The surface geological maps containing fault structures, potential recharging zones, and the
surface geothermal manifestations were produced.

Phase 1: MT Sounding Study for Karkar and Gridzor Sites: The MT study included
identification of MT/TEM profiles for both sites, MT data processing, and modeling.

1. Selection of the profiles: Profiles for MT and TEM surveys were selected in the limits of the
   areas for Karkar and Gridzor. The spacing interval between the MT stations was 400-600 m.
   The TEM central-loop soundings were collected at most of the MT locations in anticipation
   of static shift effects, and the ability to use active source data (TEM) for correction.

    •   Gridzor site: The choice of geometry of MT survey profile for the Gridzor site was
        dictated primarily by the landscape of the area. It was impossible to suggest substantially
        different alternative locations of the profile. The superposition of GIS databases enabled
        selection of the optimal profile line for the Gridzor site including 8 points of МТ survey.

    •   Karkar site: The choice of geometry for MT survey profiles for the Karkar site was
        dictated primarily by the evidence provided by the geological and geophysical
        investigations of 2009. However, during implementation of the MT survey, the line of the
        profile, which had a total length of 12 km, was slightly adjusted in the field considering
        accessibility of the terrain.

2. MT and TEM data processing: The input signal for MT surveys is the natural time-varying
   geomagnetic field. A useful measure of its level is the A index. Correlation between good
   MT signal and high Ap index was observed in MT surveys. TEM field data were collected at
   three different base frequencies: 30, 75, and 285 Hz. This was done mostly for data quality
   analysis, although this procedure also allows for increased resolution at depth. Two
   soundings per frequency were collected, at a minimum, using differing amplifier gains to
   monitor data quality. This results in at least six 20-gate datasets per site, which were reduced
   to apparent resistivity and plotted together. Examination of all datasets from each sounding
   position resulted in the selection of the highest quality data for subsequent processing and
   modeling.

3. MT and TEM data modeling: Forward modeling calculation and inversion data-fit modeling
   was conducted using the MT and TEM data collected. Specifically, one-dimensional (1D)
   and two-dimensional (2D) inversion modeling was conducted. Two different 1D modelling
   schemes were used. These included Occam’s inversion and discrete layered-earth modelling.

The MT modeling exercise for the Gridzor and Karkar sites resulted in the development of two
cross sections for each site with visualization of the rock formation resistivity.


                                                19
Phase 1: Independent interpretation of MT sounding results: Independent interpretation of the
MT sounding results helped to select the most prospective from two sites based on the results of
the MT study and justify the need for further 3D geological studies. In order to select the
prospective area for further investigations the respective comparative descriptions of Karkar and
Gridzor were compared:

Table 1: Selection of the most prospective geothermal site
                                                                                  Areas
               Type of Works
                                                                         Karkar           Gridzor
     1.        Interpretation of aerospace images                        Good 3             Good
     2.        Extent of geologic exploration of the site               Sufficient        Sufficient
     3.        Extent of hydro-chemical exploration of the
                                                                         Medium           Sufficient
               site
     4.        Extent of hydrogeological exploration of the
                                                                        Sufficient        Sufficient
               site
     5.        Extent of geophysical exploration of the site             Medium           Sufficient
     6.
                                                                     Medium – about 4
               Size of the prospective area (is studied                                   Sufficient-
                                                                           km
               along separate profiles)                                                      1km
                                                                     Medium – about 2
               a) length, b) width                                                        Sufficient-
                                                                           km
                                                                                             1km
     7.        Extent of geo-electric model exploration of
                                                                         Medium           Sufficient
               the site (according to MT data)
Thus, as a result of cumulative conventional evaluation of the mentioned investigations, Karkar
emerged as the most prospective of the two geothermal sites explored.

Phase 2: 3D MT, gravimetric and CO2 studies: The total study area included 27 km.2 The MT
data from 150 soundings for the Karkar site was inverted for resistivity structure through 3D MT
inversion model. A 200 x 200 m horizontal and at least 10 m vertical mesh was used for the final
3D inversion model, including topography and a reasonable fit between the calculated and
observed MT data. This activity also helped to acquire and analyze gravimetric data using the
gravimeters.

The 3D inversion modeling, as well as gravimetric data helped to prepare 3D images of the site
subsurface structures as well as three cross-sections of North-South orientation and three cross-
sections of West-East orientation. The CO2 and CH4 soil gas flux survey performed on the
Karkar geothermal field did not result in any verifiable CO2 anomalies within the survey area.
The single verifiable anomaly identified was associated with a nearby hot spring.

Phase 2: Interpretation of 3D MT, gravimetric and CO2 studies: Interpretation of the results of
3D MT modeling, gravimetric and CO2 studies helped to assess the likely reservoir and its


3
    Sufficient – 2 points; Medium – 3 points; and Good – 4 points.


                                                           20
related technical parameters, develop the conceptual geothermal models of the Karkar site (with
indication of likely temperatures of the geothermal resource), as well as identify the proposed
location of exploratory drilling sites. Specifically, the interpretation helped to assess the depth,
extent and thickness of permeable zones, confirm geothermal aquifers, identify isolating layers
and suggest locations for exploratory wells.

The interpretation of 3D MT, gravimetric and CO2 studies, coupled with the results of the
geological field scouting and MT enabled to identify the following isolating layers at Karkar:

•   Layer 1 (AL) was estimated to spread from the day-surface to the depths of 250-500 meters
    and is represented by high-resistance rocks. Apparently, the layer corresponds to the
    sedimentary basin filled with Quaternary lava and alluvium. The greatest thickness and
    highest resistance values in Layer 1 were recorded on the eastern margin of Depression D1
    and over the sites of development of the Pleistocene volcanoes (Fig. 1).

•   Layer 2 (FR) was estimated to spread within the depth interval of 300-1,000 meters
    (thickness of 400-700 m). Layer 2 is represented by low-resistance rocks with 10-20 Ohm×m.
    The lowest resistance values and the greatest thickness of Layer 2 were recorded in
    Depression D1. Layer 2 was interpreted as a zone of fractured quartz monzonites with
    possible content of mineralized, low-temperature waters (Fig. 1).

•   Layer 3 (QZ) was estimated to fill in the spaces between Layers 2 and 4, and spreads within a
    depth interval of 1,000-3,000 meters. The layer is about 500-800 m thick in the center of the
    pull-apart bаsin structure. Easterly, Layer 2 was estimated to rise and its thickness was
    estimated to be less than 1,000 meters, while in the west it plunged down to depths of 3,000
    to 4,500 meters. Layer 3 was characterized by resistance values from 200 to 50 Ohm×m and
    is interpreted as less fractured quartz monzonite (Fig. 1).

•   Layer 4 (MZ) was identified as two large blocks separated with Layer 5. Based on 2D and
    3D models, the upper boundary of the blocks is recorded at depths of about 1,500–1,800
    meters. Layer 4 is believed to have high-resistance rocks (1,000-2,500 Ohm×m). All of the
    models recorded a gradual increase of resistance from the outer boundaries of Layer 4 toward
    its inner areas (Fig. 1). Layer 4 was interpreted as monolithic blocks of intrusion not
    saturated with water.

•   Layer 5 (PDZ) is estimated to be oriented eastward. The layer was recorded from a depth of
    3,000 meters and traced to a depth of more than 10,000 meters (Fig. 1). In areas closer to the
    surface, Layer 5 joins Layers 3 and 2 in the center of the pull-apart bаsin structure, at a depth
    of about 3,000 m.

Figure 1: Structural geological units of Karkar site




                                                 21
The hydrogeological modeling suggested two options for potential heat sources:
• Model ? assumes that low resistance values are not present in the zone of Layer 5. In such a
   case, Model ? would provide only for a diffuse source of heat and will characterize Layer 2
   as a reservoir of moderately warm waters (100-150оС). According to Model ?, quartz
   monzonite in Layers 4 and 5 might appear abnormally heated. In the meantime, hot water
   horizon might be lacking from Layers 4 and 5, and the abnormal heat could be confined to
   the monzonite massif solely.

•   Model В assumes that low resistance values of 20-30 Ohm×m may be present in Layer 5. In
    such a case, Model В would provide for a localized high-temperature source of heat in Layer
    5. Along with this, if Layer 3 is permeable, Layer 2 could be characterized as a reservoir of
    high-temperature water (more than 250оС). In case Layer 3 is impermeable, then Layer 2
    would contain relatively warm waters (less than 100оС), while high-temperature waters
    within Layer 5 would be shielded /isolated/ with Layer 3.

The studies did not exclude that there might be a combination of models ? and В and the Karkar
Site could accommodate some diffuse source of heat fed by the regional heating of monzonite
within magmatic structure, or there could be a localized high-temperature source of heat.

Independent interpretation also resulted in identification of approximate locations for drilling of
exploratory wells to test availability of geothermal resource at the Karkar site. In particular, the
following options were proposed for exploratory wells:

• Exploration Well 1: Model ? assumed the presence of a diffuse source of heat located beyond
  the limits of the Karkar site. To confirm availability of resource as per Model A, it would be
  necessary to drill an exploratory well. The exploratory well should be not less than 2,000
  meters deep. Drilling of such a borehole will enable to verify availability of abnormal heating
  of monzonites assumed by the diffuse Model ?. The proposed approximate location of
  drilling area for Exploratory Well 1 (B1) is shown in Figure 2.


                                                22
• Exploration Well 2: Model В assumes presence of a localized source of heat and a potential
  presence of high-temperature water (200оС). This exploratory well should have a depth of not
  less than 1,500-1,800 meters. It will allow both Model A and Model B to be checked at the
  same time. If high-temperature water is encountered in the course of drilling, this would imply
  the credibility of Model В, or of a combined option of Models A and B. In such a case,
  drilling of the area of Exploration Well 2 could be cancelled. Therefore, the independent
  interpretation recommended first to drill Exploration Well 2, and then, if resource is not
  confirmed, to drill the Exploration Well 1. The proposed approximate location of drilling area
  for Exploratory Well 2 (B2) is shown in Figure 2. The possible location of the well should be
  determined more specifically during reconnaissance studies to precede the drilling.




Figure 2: Proposed location of exploratory wells for Karkar site




Phase 2: Assessment of the economic and financial viability of the Karkar site: The economic
and financial analysis was conducted for three different geothermal plant concepts, which
depends on the estimated geothermal resource temperature and other technical parameters. The
cost estimates were derived based on known or inferred relationships between costs and
technical characteristics of geothermal projects.




                                               23
Resource temperatures and assumptions about the enthalpy of the resource in each scenario were
used to develop three conceptual plant designs, which would generate between 47,000,000 and
239,700,000 kWh per year. These designs are as follows:

1. A 6.5 MW (net) Organic Rankine Cycle (ORC) design for the 130°C scenario, which would
   generate 47,000,000 kWh per year.
2. A 6.4 MW (net) Kalex cycle design for the 110°C scenario, which would generate
   49,700,000 kWh per year.
3. A 28.5 MW (net) Flash cycle design for the 300°C scenario, which would generate
   239,700,000 kWh per year.

The economic cost of each design was compared to the economic cost of other supply options
available to Armenia in order to determine economic viability. Also, the financial tariff was
estimated to make the plant financially viable and it was compared to Armenia’s forecast average
generation cost.

Economic Viability: A geothermal power plant built at the Karkar site could indeed be an
economically viable power supply option for Armenia if a geothermal resource with a
temperature of 300°C exists at the site. The LEC of the conceptual plant design created to utilize
a resource at this temperature is US$0.067/kWh, which is below the estimated economic LEC of
a new CCGT (US$0.084/kWh), as well as the LECs of a wind plant (US$0.093/kWh), a new
nuclear plant (US$0.105/kWh), a biomass plant (US$0.142/kWh) and a solar PV plant
(US$0.339/kWh). The LEC of the conceptual plant under this temperature assumption is only
higher than the LEC of small HPPs (US$0.051/MWh). Figure 3 compares the LEC of each of the
other supply options to those of the conceptual plant in each scenario.

Figure 3: LECs of the Conceptual Plant and Other Supply Options




                                               24
However, a geothermal power plant at the Karkar site is not likely to be economically viable
when compared with the other supply options if the resource temperatures at the site are in the
110-130°C range. An ORC plant built to utilize the 130°C temperature would have an LEC of
US$0.214/kWh. The LEC of a Kalex cycle plant built to utilize the 110°C temperature would
have an LEC of US$0.282/kWh. These are both significantly higher than the LEC of almost
every other supply option evaluated in this report except for solar PV.

Financial Viability: The Flash cycle design of the conceptual plant is the only design that would
require a tariff below the forecast future average electricity supply cost in Armenia, estimated at
US$0.047-US$0.067/kWh, assuming public financing is available. The Flash cycle design of the
geothermal plant would be financially viable if a tariff of at least US$0.058/kWh was received,
assuming public financing is available. 4 It is assumed that this tariff could be received because it
would be below the average cost of the electricity supply. It is concluded that this design would
likely be financially viable for this reason.

If the ORC or Kalex cycle designs were built, the tariff required to make these plants financially
viable would be much higher than Armenia’s future average electricity supply cost. If the
resource temperature is 130°C and an ORC design is built, the plant would only be financially
viable if the tariff received is at least US$0.195/kWh, assuming public financing terms. If the
resource temperature is 110°C and a Kalex cycle design is built, the plant would be financially



4
 “Public? financing assumptions are based on the public financing terms assumed in Ani Balabanyan, Artur
Kochnakyan, Gevorg Sargsyan, Denzel Hankinson, and Lauren Pierces, “ Charged Decisions: Difficult Choices in
Armenia’s Energy Sector.? October 2011.



                                                      25
viable if a tariff of US$0.255/kWh is received. 5 Both of these designs would require a tariff
much higher than the average supply cost in Armenia in order to be financially viable.

Table 1: Minimum Tariffs Required to Make Each Design Financially Viable
                             Public Financing                              Commercial Financing
                     Min. Tariff for   Average Cost of                                   Average Cost of
                                                                     Min. Tariff for
                       Financial      Electricity Supply                                Electricity Supply
                                                                   Financial Viability
                       Viability         2016-2030                                         2016-2030
                                                             US$/kWh
    Kalex Design          0.255                                           0.383
    ORC Design            0.195              0.047-0.067                  0.287                  0.056-0.120
    Flash Design          0.058                                           0.095

Component 2: Project Implementation (actual: US$0.07 million): This component financed
incremental operating costs of the R2E2 Fund.




5
  The financial tariff required to make the plants financially viable are below the plants’ economic LECs because
different discount rate assumptions are used in the economic and financial analyses. In the economic LEC analysis, a
“social? discount rate of 10% is used, while in the financial analysis under public financing terms, a 3% discount
rate is used, which represents the cost of debt from an international financial institution.


                                                        26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
An economic and financial appraisal was not conducted at appraisal stage since the project
financed only technical assistance and incremental operating costs of R2E2 Fund. An economic
and financial appraisal was not conducted upon completion either for the same reason. However,
it should be noted that the project funds yielded good value for money spent and the costs of
exploration works were comparable to the average costs of similar field investigation works for
geothermal projects.




                                              27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                   Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Ani Balabanyan            Operations Officer                    ECSS2 Task management
Gevorg Sargsyan           Sr. Infrastructure Specialist         ECSS2 Support with client dialogue
Artur Kochnakyan          Consultant                            ECSS2 Operational and analytical support
Helmut Schreiber          Lead Environmental Economist          ECSS2 Assistance on operational issues
                                                                      related to GeoFund
Anarkan Akerova           Sr. Counsel                           LEGEM Support on legal documents and
                                                                      other legal aspects of the project
Arman Vatyan              Sr. Financial Management Specialist   ECSPS Financial management
Gurcharan Singh           Sr. Procurement Specialist            ECSPS Procurement
Wolfhart Pohl             Sr. Environmental Specialist          ECSS3 Safeguards
Piotr Dlugosz             Geothermal Specialist                       Technical advice

Supervision/ICR
Ani Balabanyan            Sr. Energy Specialist                 ECSEG Task Management
Artur Kochnakyan          Energy Economist                      ECSS2 Analytical and operational support
Gevorg Sargsyan           Program Coordinator                   SEGEN Support with client dialogue
Alexander Astvatsatryan   Procurement Officer                   ECSO2 Procurement
Armine Aydinyan           Consultant (Procurement)              ECSO2 Procurement
Arman Vatyan              Sr. Financial Management Specia       ECSO3 Financial Management
Garik Sergeyan            Consultant (Financial management)     ECSO3 Financial Management
Wolfhart Pohl             Sr. Environmental Specialist          AFTSG Safeguards
Piotr Dlugosz             Geothermal Specialist                       Technical advice
Irina Tevosyan            Program Assistant                     ECCAR Operational support
Yolanda Gedse             Program Assistant                     ECSSD Transaction support

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including travel
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                            and consultant costs)
Lending
                                FY09                6.1                       16988.47
                                FY10               12.88                     13,688.76
                                Total:             18.98                     30,677.23
Supervision/ICR
                                FY11                9.33                      6,657.16
                                FY12                5.08                     23,417.58
                                FY13                9.43                     26,000.34
                                Total:             23.84                     56,075.08



                                                 28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.




                                      29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Presented below is a summary of the workshop held to discuss geo-technical studies under the
project (December 26, 2009). The workshop was held at the Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources of the Republic of Armenia.

The participants of the workshop were the representatives of the Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources, Ministry of Nature Protection, Ministry of Finance, World Bank, Armenia
Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency Fund, Armenian Development Agency, Institute of
Geological Sciences of the National Academy of Sciences of Armenia (NAS of RA), Institute of
Engineering Seismology of the NAS of RA, GEORISK Scientific Research CJS Company and
the “Center of Geological Studies? of the Yerevan State University.

Mr. Areg Galstyan, Deputy Minister of Energy, gave a welcome speech. Mrs. Tamara Babayan,
Director of the Armenia Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency Fund, familiarized
workshop participants with the main goals and tasks of the Armenia Geothermal Project financed
by the World Bank.

The next presentation of Dr. Arkadi Karakhanyan, Doctor of geological-mineralogical sciences,
Director of the Institute of Geological Sciences of NAS of RA and local Project Coordinator,
gave a more detailed description of the stages of implementation of the Armenian Geothermal
Project. He discussed about the organization of project activities and emphasized that specific
attention was given to the control of work quality. To this end, the results of magneto-telluric
sounding would be interpreted independently by two groups of researchers – Russian and
American.

The next speakers were representatives of the Program Phase I contractors. Director of
GEORISK Scientific Research CJS Company, Mr. Suren Arakelyan, presented the outcome of
works under the sub-project on “Geological field works, Magneto-telluric (MT) sounding of the
Gridzor and Karkar geothermal fields? implemented jointly with experts from “Western Geco
Inc.?(USA).

The Director of the “Center of Geological Studies? of the Yerevan State University, Mr. Marat
Grigoryan, made a presentation on the results of the sub-project on “Interpretation of Magneto-
telluric (MT) sounding results at the sites of Karkar and Gridzor? implemented jointly with
specialists from the Russian company “Nord-West?. Based on the findings of the interpretation,
the Karkar site was considered the most promising one, however, it was proposed to continue
further investigations at the Gridzor site as well.

Dr. Arkadi Karakhanyan presented a correlation between the interpretations of the results of
magneto-telluric sounding performed by the US and Russian specialists, who, working
independently, arrived to the same conclusion about the structural composition and the prospects
of the Karkar site. Dr. Arkadi Karakhanyan summarized all studies conducted by various groups
of researchers both in the past years, and in the framework of the current Project. This synthesis
indicated that geological and geo-morphological structure of both sites is such that realization of
3D (three-dimensional) seismic surveying would hardly be a feasible task and would fail to
provide the desirable results, i.e., to better determine the location and depth of a potential


                                                30
geothermal source. Considering this, a suggestion was made to perform a three-dimensional (3D)
magneto-telluric survey instead of 3D seismic sounding at the Karkar site.

Mr. Garik Babouryan, Head of Development Management Section at the Ministry of Energy, Mr.
Vardan Vardanyan, Head of the Administration of Resources of the Ministry of Energy, and Mr.
Marat Grigoryan, Director of the Center of Geological Studies of the Yerevan State University,
also supported the idea.

It was decided that the Armenia Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency Fund would put in
a request to the World Bank with a recommendation of replacing implementation of 3D seismic
surveys envisioned for Phase II of the Geothermal Project by the implementation of 3D magneto-
telluric survey.




                                             31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Presented below is the Borrower’s ICR.

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The development of non-traditional / alternative energy sources has become imperative for the
Republic of Armenia, a country without fossil fuels and limited hydropower potential. However,
Armenia has potential for a variety of alternative energy sources, such as small hydropower,
solar energy, bio-fuels and, notably, geothermal energy. According to the available research data,
several areas in the territory of Armenia are considered prospective for geothermal energy.

The World Bank has assisted the Government of Armenia to proceed with the investigation and,
possibly, development of several geothermal fields with economic potential. An instrument
called “GeoFund? supports comprehensive field investigation works, and, depending on the
investigation results, may consider financing exploratory drilling and other investments enabling
utilization of geothermal energy resources through its Direct Investment Funding window or
Geological Risk Insurance window.

To provide the input from local geological knowledge and expertise to the Project, the Armenia
Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency Fund (R2E2) signed the Consulting Services
contract with Dr. Arkadi Karakhanyan on May 2009. According to the Contract, the Consultant
had to provide advice to the R2E2 Office in drafting and revising Technical Specifications for a
set of Terms of Reference documents, estimating duration of individual assignments and phases
of the Project with due regard to potential limitations imposed by features of local geology and
climate, evaluation of the expertise of potential bidders and of the quality and responsiveness of
the submitted technical proposals, and of their ability to meet the requirements set in the relevant
TOR, review of individual stages and final reports provided by contractors in the course of their
assignments, and consulting on the general Project trends and strategies.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The total phasing and the general context of the Project had been already set by the time the
Consultant was hired. Two sites with comparatively high geothermal potential had been pre-
selected: Karkar and Gridzor, which are both located in a Quaternary volcanic belt south of Lake
Sevan.

The objective of site investigation was set as the assessment of the technical and economic
feasibility of exploratory drilling of the geothermal site with the highest estimated geothermal
potential. The key decision to be enabled by investigation had been formulated as the “drill? or
“do not drill? decision for the exploratory well for two geothermal sites, selected for a sequenced
field investigation campaign.

1.     The following approach had been foreseen for the field investigation works at Karkar and
Gridzor geothermal sites: (i) geological field scouting; (ii) 2D magneto-telluric (MT) sounding
study; and (iii) three-dimensional (3D) seismic surveying of the more prospective of the two


                                                32
geothermal sites, if the outcome of the 2D MT sounding and geological field scouting would
warrantee 3D MT survey. The investigations were carried out in two phases, and the second
investigation phase depended on the results of the first and should be carried out only if the
results were positive enough to justify this additional effort:

2.      Phase I included (i) geological field works (scouting) and (ii) 2D magneto-telluric (MT)
sounding of the two selected potential geothermal fields. The assignment focused on the
performance of measurements and collection of data in a high quality manner. The completion of
Phase I should have allowed assessment whether the further investigation works specified in
Phase II below were justified and, if yes, to select the most promising geothermal field for Phase
II investigations. Phase I works were completed in 2009. The Karkar Site was selected as the
most promising area for Phase II investigation.

3.     Phase II involved a three dimensional (3D) magneto-telluric (MT) survey, accompanied
by the gravimetric and soil gas surveys. The 3D survey allowed sketching the outline of the
subsurface structure and encompassing the depth of potential geothermal reservoir, its thickness
and extent, and the presence of major fault zones.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

As mentioned above, the key objective of the Project was set as the assessment of the technical
and economic feasibility of exploratory drilling of the geothermal site with the highest estimated
geothermal potential.

1.3 Original Components (as approved)

Original Project components included field investigations (geological scouting, geophysical
surveys (seismic/ MT, gravimetry), geochemical air and water sampling and analysis) at both
sites or at the one chosen as the most promising. Each field investigation assignment was
followed by interpretation phase assigned to an independent Contractor.

1.4 Revised Components

As mentioned above, by the time the Consultant launched his activities under the Project, two
sites with comparatively high geothermal potential had been pre-selected: Karkar and Gridzor.
The main approach and the content of field investigations, as well as the sequence of field
surveys and analytical phases had been already decided. In May-June 2009, the Consultant
developed a general time schedule of the Geothermal Project. In the course of the Project, the
Consultant advised the R2E2 office on the feasibility of individual tasks included in the TOR in
terms of their scientific content, applicability and relevance to specific geological settings of the
pre-selected terrains, and timing constraints imposed by seasonal changes weather in their high-
mountain environment. Certain shifts of contract terms have been introduced. One of the most
serious changes proposed and supported by the Consultant was the change of the 3D seismic
prospecting methods, which was substituted for the 3D magnetotelluric surveying. The workshop
held in December 2009 involved representatives of the Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources, Nature Protection Ministry, Ministry of Finance of the RA, Word Bank, Renewable

                                                 33
Resources and Energy Efficiency Fund (R2E2), Armenia Development Agency, NAS RA
Institute of Geological Sciences and Institute of Engineering Seismology and Geophysics,
GEORISK Scientific Research CJS, and the “Center of Geological Studies? of the Yerevan State
University. Workshop participants presented the results of site investigations and interpretations
conducted under Project Phase 1 and discussed in detail and the proposed change of the method
for Project Phase II.

The Consultant presented the summary of all works that had been conducted by then both in the
frame of the Geothermal Project, and in earlier studies. Based on this summary, two main
suggestions were made. First, it was proposed to consider the Karkar site the most promising for
continued investigations under Project Phase 2. Besides, it was shown that specific geological
and geomorphological structure of both pre-selected terrains would make application of 3D
seismic survey, chosen for better localization and estimation of the depth of potential geothermal
reservoir, hardly feasible there and might fail to provide the expected outcome. Considering this,
it was proposed to replace the 3D seismic investigation by the three-dimensional magneto-
telluric survey supplemented also by the gravity and CO2 gas survey within the Karkar Site.

The proposed change was supported by the representatives of the Ministry of Energy and the
Yerevan State University.

1.5 Other significant changes

No other significant changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project design was sound and drew upon the international experience for conducting similar
types of studies for geothermal field investigations.

2.2 Implementation

The implementation of the project was sound and without major delays. High qualification and
extensive professional background of the contractors involved under individual project
assignments contributed and facilitated successful realization of the Project.

The following key factors caused delays in implementation of the project: the delays in the
Project were related to the shift from the 3D seismic survey planned originally for Project Phase
2 to the 3D MT survey method supplemented by the gravity and CO2 gas surveys within the
Karkar Site.

2.3 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
In order to secure sustainability of project results, the following key activities need to be
implemented: It is necessary to conduct exploratory drilling of boreholes in couple with
geological and geophysical of the boreholes and their sections at the Karkar Site.


                                               34
Proposed follow-up project: Exploratory drilling of boreholes in couple with geological and
geophysical of the boreholes and their sections at the Karkar Site.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The design and implementation of the Project were consistent with the objectives set at Project
start.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The formulated objective was met.




                                              35
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                       36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   •   Project Appraisal Document
   •   Operational Manual of the R2E2 Fund
   •   GEF Grant Agreement for the project
   •   Project Restructuring Paper
   •   Implementation Status Reports
   •   Supervision Mission Aide-Memoires
   •   Ani Balabanyan, Artur Kochnakyan, Gevorg Sargsyan, Denzel Hankinson and Lauren
       Pierce, “Charge Decisions: Difficult Choices in Armenia’s Energy Sector.? Armenia
       Energy Sector Note. The World Bank. October 2011
   •   Denzel Hankinson. “Economic and Financial Appraisal of the Potential Geothermal
       Power Plant at Karkar.? November 2012
   •   “Independent Interpretation of the Results of the 3D MT, Gravity and CO2 Surveys
       conducted at Karkar Site.? Final Report. 2012
   •   “Magnetotelluric, Gravity and Soil Gas Survey for Karkar Geothermal Field.? 3D
       Inversion Modeling Report. November 2011
   •   “Magnetotelluric, Gravity and Soil Gas Survey for Karkar Geothermal Field.?
       Operational Report. October 2011
   •   “Interpretation of MT Results for Gridzor and Karkar Geothermal Sites.? Final Report,
       2009
   •   “Geological field works, Magneto-telluric (MT) sounding of the Gridzor and Karkar
       geothermal fields.? Final Report. 2009




                                              37
     43' E                                                               44' E                                                                                                   46                                                        47'E
                                   GEORGIA                                                                                                                                         'E            GEORGIA                     I
                      ·-                                                                                                                                                                         ,.-·-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                     \                                                                                                                                                                                           Mingechevir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Reservoir




                 TURKEY
38




      lhio mop.,. pn>du<od by tho Map O..ign Unit ollhe World !look,
      T1te boondorie.J, coloo, denominofions ond ony ~ informorion
      1hown oo this mop do 1101 imply, on the pori of Tl.e World 8onlc
                                                  ""'"">'·
      Groop. ony jv<lgmo.r on the ~ego~,...,, of ony
      ondor.MliJ'Iforlf or occeplonce of wch bo...ndories.
                                                               "'ony

                                                                                                                       /".                                                               \                      AZERBAIJAN
                                                                                                                   (         '-

                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                           (
                 ARMENIA                                                                                   (
                                                                                                           J                                                                     ~
             o    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                       ., ....... _,.,..                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                         '-· \           .s>t<S YUNIK '
         ®        PROVINCE IMARZ) CAPITALS                                                                                                                  AZERBAIJAN
         ®        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                               ...               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC                                                              '       )       "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  c.,_         ~
      ~ RIVERS
                                                                                   '                   OF IRAN                                                                       (                   10/         (
                                                                                          ......                                                                                                          0~         '
     - - MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                             (                 0       10        20   30    40    50 Kilometers                                            <S>           \
     - - RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                           \                 l'>
                                                                                         /                                                                                                                                                           39 N
     - - PROVINCE IMARZ) BOUNDARIES                                                      \.                    0            10         20        30Miles                                         \                                                          C6

     -   ·-       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                    \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  47' E     w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ()-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1>.
