Page  1
November 28, 2000
Y.B. Dato’ Dr. Samsudin bin Hitam
Director General
Economic Planning Unit
Prime Minister's Department
Block B5 & B6, Federal Administrative Centre
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Fax: (603) 8888-3833
Dear Sir:
Re:
Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) Recycling Project - 21925-MA
Amendment to Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement
We refer to the Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the OTF Grant 
Agreement) dated November 6, 1992, between Malaysia (the Recipient), and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), and to the letter 
dated March 21, 2000, from Mr. Freddie Cho, requesting the Bank to include some 
additional activities, introduce two new disbursement categories for Civil Works and 
Incremental Operating Costs, and reallocate the OTF grant proceeds.  
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due consideration, has agreed 
to the above request, and hereby amends the OTF Grant Agreement as follows:
1.
Schedule 1 is amended as provided in the Attachment to this amendment letter.
2
Part B of Schedule 2 is amended to include the following new Activities:
"8.
Provision of civil works to carry out renovations to the Fire Service 
Department (FSD) site designated for the installation and operation of 
recovery and recycling machines; and
9.
Provision of training to government personnel from FSD, the Department 
of Environment, and customs officials on the management of the Malaysia
Halon Bank."
3.
Schedule 3 is amended by introducing a new Section III that reads as follows:
"Section III
Part A:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section III of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$50,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed- price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant 
drawings where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement of Works 
The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word "bids", in such paragraph 4, 
shall be read as "quotations"."
Except as specifically amended by this amendment letter, all provisions of the 
OTF Grant Agreement, remain in full force and effect.
Page  2
Please confirm your agreement to the amendment set up above by signing the form 
of confirmation set forth hereinbelow, and returning to us one fully executed original 
of this amendment letter at your earliest convenience, and retaining one original of 
the amendment letter for your records.  This amendment letter is effective as from 
January 1, 2000.
Sincerely
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ijaz Nabi
Country Manager, Malaysia
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
MALAYSIA
By /s/ Dato’ Dr. Samsudin bin Hitam
Director General
Date: March 30, 2001 
Attachment 
"SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Category
Amount of the Grant
% of Expenditures
expressed in US Dollars
  to be Financed
(1)
Equipment
1,233,000
100% of foreign 
expenditure
100% of local expenditure
(ex-factory cost) and 85% 
of 
local expenditure for 
other 
items procured locally
(2)
Consultant Services
  245,000
100%
(3)
Training
   52,000
100%
(4)
Civil Works
   50,000
100% 
(5)
Incremental Operating Costs
   50,000
100%
TOTAL
1,630,000
For purposes of paragraph 1, the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the costs 
incurred in the collection and transportation of gases, communications, utilities, 
office supplies, and the maintenance of equipment."
