Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19368
[MPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28306
May 24, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May I1, 1999)
Currency Unit        Hungarian Forint (HUF)
US$1         233.380 HUF
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Hungarian Forint per US$
1994         1995           1996             1997             1998
105.160      125.681        152.647          186.789         217.720
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
HUNGARY'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CB Corvin Bank                       MFMP Multilateral Fund for the Implementation
of the Montreal Protocol
CEE Central and Eastern Europe           MP Montreal Protocol on Substances that
Deplete the Ozone Layer
CFC Chlorofluorocarbon                  NBF Not Bank-Financed
CTC Carbon Tetrachloride               NBH National Bank of Hungary
EIT Economies in Transition            NCB National Competitive Bidding
FA Financial Agent                      NS National Shopping
FPA Fire Protection Association         ODP Ozone Depleting Potential
ESU Fortner Soviet Union                ODS Ozone Depleting Substances
GEF Global Environment Facility       OORG Ozone Operations Resource Group
GET Global Enviromnent Trust            PAA Project Administration Agreement
GIS Geographic Informnation System     PCE Perchloroethylene
GOH Government of Hungary                PIM  Project Implementation Manual
HC Hydrocarbon                         PIU Project Implementation Unit
HCFC Hydrochlorofluorocarbon               PU Polyurethane
HF Hungarian Forint                    SDR Special Drawing Right
HFC Hydrofluorocarbon                   SOE Statement of Expenditures
HRACA Hungarian Refrigeration and Air     STAP Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
Conditioning Enterprises
Association
IBRD International Bank for              TAG Technical Advisory Group
Reconstruction and Development
ICB International Competitive Bidding  TCE 1, 1,1 -Trichloroethane
IEM  Institute for Environmental      UNEP Untied Nations Environment Program
Management
IOC Incremental Operating Costs        USD United Sates Dollar
IS International Shopping            VOC Volatile Organic Compounds
LIB Local Competitive Bidding            3R Recovery, Reclamation and Recycling
MOE Ministry of Environment
MFMP Multilateral Fund for the
Implementation of the Montreal
Protocol
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP  Sector Leader, Environment  Michele de Nevers, ECSSD
Country Director: Roger Grawe, ECCO7   Responsible Staff        Krisztina Kiss, TTL, ECSSD
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver, ECSSD



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28306
Contents
Preface ..............................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................                                                        ii
Introduction ..................................................                                                   ii
Project Objectives .................................................. ii
Implementation Experience and Results .................................................. ii
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned ..................................................  iv
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................. 1
A.   PROJECT CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES ...................................................1
Project Context ...................................................I
Project Objectives ..................................................5
Evaluation of Objectives ...................................................5
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .............................6
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .20
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .21
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .21
F. RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE .22
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .22
H. FUTURE OPERATION .23
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .24
PART  II. STATISTICAL TABLES ..............................................................                           26
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ....................................................................... 27
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................................................................        29
Table 3: Project Timetable .......................................................................                  30
Table 4: Loan/Credit/Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual VJS$ million) ............ 30
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .......................................................................     31
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .......................................................................  37
Table 7: Studies and Workshops Included in Project .......................................................................   37
Table 8. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................        38
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................                                                    39
Table 1 0: Status of Legal Covenants Hungary ODS Phaseout ............................................              39
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................                40
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................                                 40
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ............................................                                     41
APPENDIXES:
A. Aide-memoire offinal mission
B. Recipient's contribution to the ICR
C. Map IBRD 26084R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28306
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Support and
Investment Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances in Hungary, for which GEF
Grant Number 28306, Code HU-GE 8377 in the amount of SDR 4,700,000 equivalent was
approved on November 9, 1995 and made effective on February 28, 1996.
The grant was closed on December 31, 1998 instead of December 31, 1997 the original
closing date. As of May 20, 1999, over 99% of the grant had been disbursed and SDR 39,693
remained undisbursed and unutilized. The last disbursement date was May 18, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Krisztina Kiss, Task Team Leader, from the Europe and Central
Asia Region ECSSD, and Mr. David Gibson, Consultant. It was reviewed by Ms. Michele de
Nevers, Sector Leader for Environment, ECSSD, Mr. Gottfried Ablasser, Portfolio Manager,
ECSSD and Mr. Mahesh Sharmna, Senior Regional Coordinator, ENVGC.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and project
completion mission, which took place from September 9-10, 16, 22-25 and October 7, 1999. It
is based on material in the project file and discussions with the Director of the Project
Implementation Unit, officials of the Ministry of Environment and other relevant entities
involved in project implementation. The recipients participated in the preparation of the ICR by
contributing their own project completion report.






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28306
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
i.   Hungary was one of the first countries eligible for Global Environment Facility (GEF)
grant funds to launch a comprehensive Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) phaseout program.
In 1993, the Government of Hungary requested World Bank assistance for the preparation of a
GEF funded ODS Phaseout Project. When the project closed at the end of 1998, it was one of
the first successful ODS phaseout projects worldwide. GEF support provided an incentive for
Hungary's early adoption of additional ODS phase-out activities, which yielded environmental
and economic benefits.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
ii.    The principal objective of the Project was to assist Hungary in the phaseout of ODS
consumption in a cost-effective manner by the year 1996, as mandated by the Montreal Protocol
(MP). Specific objectives included: a) the progressive phaseout of ODS consumption in
Hungary, through the adoption of new cost-effective CFC-free technologies; b) the establishment
of a Hungarian network for refrigerant recovery, reclamation and recycling (3R); and c) through
institutional strengthening to improve the capability of the Ministry of Environment (MOE) to
manage and oversee the phaseout of ODS in Hungary. Subprojects addressed each of the project
objectives (equipment manufacturing, 3R, CFC phaseout).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
iii.   The objectives of the Project and the Country Program were fully achieved. Use of
primary CFCs was phased out through the implementation of sub-projects for which funding was
provided by the GEF on a grant basis to cover the incremental investment and operating costs
that enterprises would not have incurred had Hungary not been a party to the MP. In addition,



- iii -
the Project enabled appropriate Western technologies to be identified and introduced into the
country. The MP is based on the elimination of ODS consumption; the fate of existing stocks of
ODS is not considered and signatories are free to manage these in any way they choose.
Hungary's approach reflects that adopted in all Westem Countries. For completeness, the
evolution of CFC refrigerant and halon stocks as the Project progressed has been estimated.
Sub-projects 2 and 15 were designed to conserve refrigerant and halon stocks respectively and
thus minimize the need to use costly imported substitutes.
iv.   Project time firame. The original project completion date was December 31, 1997. This
had to be extended twice by six months to December 31, 1998 because of delays in
implementation by the Hungarian Association of Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Enterprises
(HRACA), 3R project and delays in commissioning hydrocarbon foaming projects at Frigolux
and Metalucon due to the exceptional stringency of Hungarian flammable gas regulations
compared to those countries where the equipment was being manufactured. Disbursement was
delayed for several months early in the project owing to the slow set-up of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and a change in Hungarian regulations in the financial and banking
sector by the introduction of State Treasury.
v.   Institutional Strengthening Component. MOE, with the support of the GEF funds and
Bank experts, could set up an ODS Phaseout Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and a Techniical
Advisory Group (TAG) to provide technical advice to the PIU and the sub-project companies,
and established ODS monitoring system in Hungary.
vi.   The 3R and Investment Components. Major projects involving investments in equipment
were carried out at the Hungarian Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Enterprises Association
(HRACA) - 3R scheme -, HAJDU - insulated hot water tanks -, Metisol -insulated panels -,
MMG Works - engineering component cleaning -, Frigolux - refrigerator and freezer production
-, Metalucon - insulated panels -, the Hungarian Fire Protection Association (FPA) - halon
recovery and reclamation - and Rutitex -dry-cleaning. Smaller investment projects were carried
out at Mediroll - medical sterilizing aerosols -, Auto-Mobil Chemical - industrial aerosols -,
Hitelap - circuit board cleaning -, Tisza - shoe sole manufacture. One project, BRG (soldering
circuit boards) comprised incremental operating costs only. All of these were successfully
implemented and the enterprises concerned are satisfied with both the technology chosen and the
performance of the new plant.  No remaining technical problems were identified.  One
enterprise, (Metisol), is still using transitional HCFC-141b for foaming but anticipates use of a
non-ODS substance by April 1999. One enterprise originally selected (Finommechanika) was
dropped since the company closed its ODS consuming production.
vii.   All participants benefited from the Project and many are in a financially stronger position
now than at the start of the Project. Stronger export performance at HAJDU and Frigolux helped
them through the difficulties of an economic recession following liberalization of the Hungarian
economy. Metisol found the new technology strengthened its position with foreign supermarket
companies operating in Hungary.



- iv -
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATION, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
viii.  The Project is the third of its kind to be completed after the Czech Project. The PIU was
fortunate that the Bank's Regional Office could provide continuous procurement and project
implementation management support. Grant recipients had the opportunity to exchange lessons,
good practices and experience with the Czech and the Slovenian PIUs and companies through
the international workshops initiated by the Bank.  These contributed to the efficient
management of the Project. The Hungarian experience is being shared with the neighboring
countries and is expected to prove invaluable for ongoing GEF funded ODS phaseout projects in
Poland and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).
ix.   Legal and Regulatory Framework ODS phaseout took place within the framework of
Hungary's obligations under the MP as amended in London and Copenhagen, whose provisions
have the force of law in the country through a ministerial decree approved in 1993 (22/1993).
This covers the need for recovery and recycling of refrigerants and halon fire extinguisher gases,
the licensing of refrigeration technicians, as well as banning the use and imports of ODS in new
products in advance of MP requirements. This legislation is very comprehensive and will not
require modification until Hungary harnnonizes her legislation with European legal codes during
the EU accession process. The legislation covers Hungary's obligations under the MP, which do
not include management of the existing stocks of CFC refrigerant, which amounts to now about
3280 tons of CFC-12, 3 tons of R-502 contained in existing refrigeration systems throughout the
country. No stocks of CFC-1 1 refrigerant exist.
x.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. The most significant factors that affected the
Project were the delays in disbursement resulting from the changes as a result of the introduction
of the State Treasury in 1997; the delays in the 3R scheme, due to slow decision making at
HRACA; and in the implementation of foaming sub-projects using flammable gases owing to the
stringent nature of Hungarian regulations.
xi.   The regional workshops, launched by the Bank and organized by the PIU, were
particularly useful in designing the recovery, reclamation and recycling (3R) scheme. Hungary
was able to avoid the mistakes made in the Czech scheme. The close partnership developed
through the Bank workshops will help the Czechs modify their scheme by studying the operation
of the Hungarian scheme.
xii.   Recipient Participation. The PIU carried out its duties in an exemplary fashion which
can be used as a model for ODS Project implementation elsewhere. The Hungarian PIU enjoyed
the advantage of being set up within the Ministry of Environment and having the Bank's local
office in the same city. This allowed informal solutions to be found to some problems, which
could have proved intractable if their solution relied on inter-ministerial communication. Overall
the Project progressed smoothly and provides an example for other countries involved in ODS
phaseout. The PIU provided a high level of management co-ordination that was matched by the
level of efficiency and co-operation displayed by the Sub-project enterprises.
xiii.  Bank Performance.   The Bank's performance in preparation, appraisal and
implementation was satisfactory, despite two changes in task manager over the life of the
Project. The Bank's missions were staffed with highly qualified professionals in environmental,



v -
procurement, technical and financial fields. The priorities of both Hungary and the GEF were
appropriately addressed as were those of the MP and its related amendments and adjustments.
The decision in 1996 to move supervision responsibility for the Project to the Bank's Regional
Office in Hungary was highly welcomed by the Recipients as it overcame problems arising from
distance and time and proved to be the most cost efficient project management for the Bank.
Also, project supervision from the field greatly facilitated the launching and managing of a series
of regional workshops with the involvement of the grant recipient countries.
xiv.  Implementation Structure. The arrangements for coordinating implementation of the
Project worked well. The enterprises and, in turn, the PIU submitted the progress reports to the
Bank in a timely fashion. All participating entities eventually welcomed the discipline of Bank
reporting requirements and procurement procedures. All found Barik requirements rigorous, but
appreciated the transparency afforded by them and admitted that acquiring financing
commercially would have been very difficult. All enterprises gradually became familiar with
tendering processes, which they normally employed for their own procurement.  Several
enterprises reported they would have closed with the loss of jobs (Frigolux, Metalucon) had GEF
grant funding not been available. All would have been seriously stretched financially.
xv.   Sustainability and Future Operations. All enterprises are financially sound and have
successfully implemented their respective sub-projects based on state-of-the-art non-ODS
technologies. They are, therefore, likely to remain in business and the equipment provided under
the Project will be used until the end of its useful life. The Project addressed every area of CFCs
use, and included schemes for refrigerant and halon recovery - the latter being the largest of its
kind in Central and Eastern Europe. Figures provided by HRACA show the existing stocks of
ODS refrigerant (Table 5.1.). The suspected illegal imports of CFCs might make it difficult to
predict the future performance of the 3R scheme and the length of time it will supply recycled
CFCs for service needs, however stricter border and customs control could enhance the
sustainability of the 3R scheme.
xvi.  The Bank's completion mission recommended that the operators of the 3R-reclaim center
should proceed with plans to increase the buy price of recovered refrigerants to improved
throughput. The center is financially viable, but has a great deal of spare capacity. The
enforcement of regulations banning the import of CFCs and the export of halons will improve
the fortunes of both refrigeration and halon recycling schemes.
xvii. Demonstration Value and Replicability. Apart from Mediroll who have made a technical
innovation which is potentially interesting to a small nurnber of users outside Hungary,
manufacturing sub-projects consisted of implementation of state-of-the-art foreign technologies.
Several other smaller technological innovations were made in the course of implementation.
Some have significant demonstration value within Hungary (MMG Works- solvents in
engineering firms; Metalucon/Metisol - insulated building panels); all can serve as a model to
other countries implementing ODS phaseout projects.
xviii. Cost Effectiveness. The cost effectiveness of some sub-projects was lower than the MP's
thresholds. This is due to the fall in production that many experienced after 1990. The cost
effectiveness ratios were provided in the original Sub-project documents approved by GEF in



- vi -
1995. Actual cost effectiveness ratios are comparable to those predicted in 1995. These are
presented in Statistical Table 5.G.
xviii. Global significance. Several projects reported significant health benefits to workers. Use
of completely hermetic cycles (Metisol, Frigolux, Rutitex) and replacement of CFC solvents with
aqueous based systems (MMG Works, Tisza, Hitelap) meant that workers were no longer
exposed to solvent vapors. The operation of the halon recovery scheme improved the quality of
halon fire fighting gases and revealed dangerous scams operated by companies servicing fire-
fighting equipment. Public safety has thus been improved in locations where halon is used.
xix. Key lessons learned The most important lessons in the areas of project design, the
Public Awareness Raising Campaign (PARC) and procurement are as follows:
* Some equipment were not included in the original sub-projects and thus had to be procured
with remaining unallocated funds (e.g. wastewater treatment facility at aqueous cleaning
projects). During the implementation of the 3R scheme, HRACA felt that their high
Incremental Operating Costs (IOC) should have been fully compensated - this was almost
met by Project completion, since HRACA received altogether 69,000 USD IOC, about 80
percent of their justifiable IOC request. Better planning could have ensured these were
included in their original funding requests.
* The PARC management by the multi-national public relations (PR) company was
disappointing. The fault is generally conceded to be the use of a large multinational PR
company with little interest in the Environment. The HRACA and the PIU leamed that
environmental non-governmental organizations (NGOs) should have already been involved
at the preparation stage of the PARC.
- Consultants "hungry" to get the job, but not committed to true environmental improvements
are now considered an inappropriate choice for such a campaign. In the future, PR firms well
experienced in environment together with NGOs may be used as the lead contractors, with
resources to incorporate the services of PR firms where these may be appropriate'. One
reason that the Consultants won the contract was the fact that evidence of previous success in
organizing an environmental campaign countered for only five percent of the evaluation
criteria points.
* HRACA, managing the 3R scheme, found that one U.S. supplier of recovery machines was
unreliable. This supplier seemed to have disappeared from the map, and is not available to
deal with the exceptional level of mechanical failures experienced by his equipment. In fact
HRACA had misgivings about the US supplier at the tendering stage, and endeavored to
nullify their declaration of this Bidder as the winner of the International Shopping bid shortly
after it was made.
* HRACA complained that Bank procurement procedures did not allow them to examine and
test goods from different suppliers, unaware that this could have been made a condition of
E.g.: making TV shorts



- vii -
prior participation in the tender. This suggests that training of sub-project enterprises
themselves in procurement procedures in the start-up phase is needed. All activities of the
implementation and budget items should be carefully planned at the project preparation. The
projects animating a large number of participants as the case of 3R, can have enormous high
administrative costs. Plant level planning involves the environmental accessory equipment,
like the effluent water treatment in solvent sub-sector.
Knowing what they know now, the PIU would eliminate small disbursement packages, and
leave small projects for counterpart funding. The complication of Bank procedures makes
small elements unworkable.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28306
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES
PROJECT CONTEXT
1. The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer (1985) and the Montreal
Protocol (MP) on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, signed in 1987, are international
environmental agreements which call for the phaseout of substances that deplete the stratospheric
ozone layer (hereafter "controlled substances"). More than 160 countries, accounting for over 95
percent of the world's consumption of these controlled substances, have ratified the MP and the
Vienna Convention. The MP, with its amendments and adjustments, mandates the complete
phaseout of production and consumption of a number of ozone depleting substances in
developed countries by January 1, 1996.  All industrialized countries have initiated
comprehensive national programs to develop cost-effective strategies to phase out the use of
these substances among various end-user sectors.   The largest family of ODS  is
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which are widely used in industrial applications, including
domestic, commercial and industrial refrigeration and air conditioning; flexible and rigid
insulation foam; and in numerous other applications such as aerosol propellants, and solvents.
2. Hungary was fully committed to the complete phaseout of the consumption of controlled
substances by 1996, as mandated by the MP and its amendments. Hungary acceded to the
Vienna Convention and the MP in 1989, and the London Amendments to the MP in November
1993. It formally ratified the Copenhagen Amendments in May 1994. However, Hungary has
not been designated as a developing country under the MP, and is therefore not eligible for
financial assistance from the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal protocol
(MFMP). Global Environment Facility (GEF) resources were therefore required to finance the
Project under the Reduction of the Ozone Layer Depletion component.
3. Hungary has been actively planning its ODS phaseout strategy since 1992. A comprehensive
Country Program based on the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances was completed in 1994.



-2 -
This Study served as the basis for establishing the priorities for the Hungarian Government, and
for identifying key policy and regulatory measures, which would be required to support a cost
effective phaseout, which would also minimize disruptions to the industrial sectors which utilize
ODS. The activities proposed for funding under this project are among those priorities identified
in the Country Program.
4. In 1993, consumption of regulated ODS was approximately 2,224 metric tons. Compared to
1991, total annual ODS consumption fell by 43 percent, and was equivalent to 2,140 ODP in
weighted tons. In terms of annual ODS consumption and ODP equivalent, chlorofluorocarbons
(CFCs) account for roughly three-quarters of the total. Consequently, the focus of the Project
should be on phasing out the use of CFCs. Refrigerator and freezer production and servicing
account for approximately 43 percent of CFC use, and 33 percent of national ODS consumption.
In addition, approximately 55 percent of the ODS used in the foam sector are for insulation for
refrigeration devices. Consequently, refrigeration products and servicing account for roughly 49
percent of national ODS consumption. The remaining ODS consumption is quite evenly
distributed in aerosols, foams, halons, and solvents. Usage and consumption of ODS in Hungary
in 1992 are shown in Statistical Tables 5.A. and 5.B. Consequently, the focus of the Country
Program and thus the Project was on phasing out the consumption of ODS. Details relating to
the consumption of ODS in 1993 are shown in the chart below:
Hungary's consumption of regulated ODS
Soil and produce
Solvents         -  disinfecting
11%                 3%              Refrigeration and air-
Aerosols, sterilizing                                    cniinn
agents _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~conditioning
agents                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~33%
12%
Fire-f ighting
13%                                     astt c  foans
-  28%
5. By signing the MP, the Hungarian Government committed itself to the objective of phasing
out ODS. The MOE issued a decree in 1992 mandating a sector-wide gradual phaseout of ODSs
in full compliance with the London Amendment of the MP. The decree was amended in 1993 to
also incorporate the Copenhagen Amendment of the MP and served as the backbone of the
phaseout strategy. The Country Program elaborated in 1993-94 was based on the Hungarian
legalization in meeting the overall objectives of phasing out ODS consumption, and specifically
of category A substances by January 1st. 1996 as mandated by the MP. Converting ODS using
industries to technologies using non-ODS would impose a large economic cost to the country in
the shape of the financial cost of new technologies to individual firms and the disruption to trade
caused by the introduction of new technologies. The strategy of the Hungarian government was
to minimize this economic cost by seeking funding from the GEF to compensate the cost of



- 3 -
conversion activities, and to identify appropriate ODS substitute technologies. The Country
Program performed this function by i) identifying industrial sectors where ODS was used, ii) by
describing potential sub-projects which could attract eligible GEF funding and identifying
appropriate technologies and iii) describing legal measures that could be taken to facilitate the
phaseout process. The Country Program thus describes the tactical approach to be taken to
achieve Hungary's strategic objective. Paragraph 5 below describes the way this is treated in the
Country Program text. Hungary's consumption of Category A substances ceased on Jan. 1st
1996 in accordance with the terms of the MP agreement. All but one of the sub-projects
identified in the Country Program was successfully implemented using technologies identified in
the Country Program with majority funding being provided by the GEF. It can therefore be
stated that the objectives of the Country Program were consistent with the Hungarian
government's strategic objectives of minimizing the cost of meeting her MP commitments. The
successful implementation of sub-projects using technologies described in the Country Program
within the legal framework described therein indicates that the tactical objectives described in
the Country Program were successfully accomplished enabling the desired strategic objective to
be reached.
6. Phaseout Strategy.  The strategic objective was "to protect human health and the
environment against adverse effects resulting from modifications of the ozone layer" (in the
words of the Vienna Convention). In order to achieve this, the MP's requirement for Hungary
was to eliminate its ODS consumption2, since there was no ODS production in the country. No
requirement to manage existing stocks in any particular way is placed on signatories. The
Country Program described Hungary's ODS elimination strategy based on a number investment
sub-projects, 15 of which were finally endorsed by GEF for funding. The participating
enterprises were selected on the basis of their capacity to undertake their Sub-projects, their
technological leadership positions, or their special situation within the context of ODS
consumption (e.g., a sufficiently low level of production exports, majority Hungarian ownership)
and their financial viability. The 15 investment Sub-projects represent 51.5 percent, 1,144 tons
of the 2,224 ODS in the Country Program. The Country Program described the means of
compliance with the MP. The 1993 status of ODS consumption was broken down and the broad
approaches to phasing these out was described. The formation of the Fire Protection Association
(FPA) and Hungarian Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Enterprises Association was
recommended for recycling refrigerants and halons; legal measures were discussed and the
Product Fee preferred over discriminatory import levies. The need to find solutions that didn't
engender other environmental problems (e.g. that have the lowest Global Warming Potential and
Volatile Organic Compound Emissions Impact) was stated. Different technical solutions were
discussed for each sector, preferred ones identified and skeleton sub-project documents
developed based on these choices. The phaseout program closely followed the approach
described in the Country Program. Small divergences can be seen in the details of the
implementation of the individual sub-projects, the descriptions of which were included in the
2 This is defined as Imports + production - export. Hungary does not produce ODS.



-4 -
Country Program. All the ODS usage under Country Program was phased out as mandated by
the MP. Hungary thus fully met its obligations under the MP.3
7. The Country Program made no mention of existing stocks of CFCs used in the country,
though the stocks of halon were estimated (- since this is not required under the MP). It has
subsequently become clear that an overview of existing stocks of these substances in Hungary is
of interest, and an attempt has been made to show quantities of ODS at the outset, and the
evolution of these as the Project progressed (see Table 5.1. in Annex). In the case of halons this
is relatively straightforward because a limited number of enterprises use these for fire protection.
These are subject to annual inspection and thus records of these users exist. However, since CFC
refrigerants are used much more broadly, their domestic usage control is more difficult, the
situation in the refrigeration sector is very different. "Stocks" of these substances consist of the
working fluid present in an almost infinite number of cooling systems in the domestic,
commercial and industrial refrigeration sub-sectors, and amounts temporarily stored in 3R
scheme recycling centers prior to re-sale.
8. Table 5.H. shows the amount of refrigerant "stocks" as 4,000 tons prior to 1996. The level of
stocks was likely higher (about 6,000 tons) prior to 1989 when HCFC began to be imported into
the country. The evolution of these "stocks" since 1996 when imports were banned is seen to be
a function of the amount reduced by retrofit. Extrapolation of these figures shows CFC stocks
disappearing around 2,007. Amounts made available from retrofitted systems are reprocessed by
regeneration or recycling and contribute towards fulfilling the service demand generated
primarily from system leaks. This approximate balance allows the scale of illegal CFC
refrigerant imports to be estimated4. This is of the order of 100 tons annually. The approximate
nature of this approach means the apparent fall in illegal imports from 1997-98 is probably an
illusion. Reducing this is feasible and the Ministry of Enviromnent is considering practical
measures (see paragraph 101 below).
9. Table 5.1. shows a similar balance for fire extinguishing agents. The lower number of users
who are all clearly identified means that these figures are more reliable. Losses shown under
"Imperfect Handling" comprise illegal exports and losses during re-filling. Since the latter have
been considerably reduced by implementation of the halon-recycling sub-project, the figures
given for 1997-98 consist mostly of illegal exports5. The destination of these is the Ukraine.
They thus leave Hungary along the same route as illegal CFCs arrive. Customs efforts to tighten
control along this route will affect both types of illegal traffic.
10. The Republic of Hungary was among the first group of countries eligible for grant funding
from the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) to launch a comprehensive ODS phaseout
program. In 1993 the Government of the Hungarian Republic requested World Bank assistance
for the preparation of a GEF funded ODS phaseout project. Preparation and implementation of
the Project took place during the period of an economic transition and industrial restructuring.
3 Taking into Annex A and B substances of the MP (CFCs, halons and 1,1,1-trichloroethane but not CC 14 and methyl bromide)
all the 2,497 tons of ODS or 2,557 tons of ODP projected on the 1992 consumption of the country was phased out.
4i.e. the service demand less the reclaimed and retrofitted amounts
5 Unlike CFC's, halons are no longer manufactured. Any surpluses thus have a ready market abroad.



-5-
Hence only those enterprises likely to survive were deemed eligible for participation. Of 55
enterprises originally interested, 22 expressed their intent to submit an application. Finally 18
submitted official applications to be included in the Project; some failed to qualify on the
grounds of financial deficiency or developed country ownership. One of the 15 finally selected
(Finommechanika) was dropped during implementation when the ODS consuming production
became loss making and was closed in the course of the company's restructuring.
11. Cost Effectiveness. Overall the Project is about 14.3 percent less cost effective than original
estimates suggested. This is due principally to the 3R scheme (HRACA) and the Fire Protection
Association sub-project where only 87 percent and 35 percent respectively of original estimates
of regenerated products have been achieved.  In general sub-projects at manufacturing
companies show cost effectiveness of the same order though rather better than those estimated.
Projects costs have in general been lower than estimated; in all but four cases manufacturing sub-
projects have phased out ODP amounts within 10 percent of estimates. The ODP amount phased
out by the Project was 92 percent of that predicted (see Table 5.G. in Annex).
12. Rationalefor GEF Involvement. The Project was developed and structured to meet the
specific ODS phaseout requirements of Hungary as outlined in the Country Program and the
general project eligibility criteria guidelines of the GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
(STAP). GEF funding was obtained on the basis of Hungary's eligibility for such assistance, i.e.
it was not classified as a developing country according to the MP, and hence was deemed
ineligible for funding from the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the MP.
Project Objectives
13. The principal objective of the Project was to assist Hungary in the phaseout of ODS
consumption in a cost-effective manner by the year 1996, as mandated by the MP and its
amendments and adjustments. Specifically the Project was to assist Hungary in: (a) phasing out
the consumption of CFCs through adoption of new cost-effective CFC-free technologies; (b)
phasing in the operation of a national network for recovery/reclamation/recycling (3R) of
refrigerants (CFC-12 and CFC-1 1); and (c) institutional strengthening to improve the capability
of the MOE to manage and oversee the phaseout program.
14. GEF support provided the incentives for the early adoption of ODS phaseout activities. In so
doing the country captured additional environmental and economic benefits, which otherwise
would have been lost. By focussing on the key sectors and enterprises, the project was to
support the phaseout of the 1,158 tons of ODP per year.
Evaluation of Objectives
15. The objectives of the Project and the strategy within which it was embedded were
appropriate according to the requirements of the MP and in line with the objectives of the
country assistance strategy and the Bank's global goals of environmentally and socially
sustainable development. Financial assistance to aid the phaseout of ODS played a pivotal role
in enabling Hungary to meet its obligations under the MP.



-6 -
16. The overall approach to ODS phaseout was essentially the same as the one adopted in other
central European countries. Funding was provided to enable non-ODS technologies to be
introduced at key enterprises, and for refrigerant and halon recycling schemes to be established.
17. The Project milestones were clear since the Project took place within the framework of
Hungarian law that banned CFC import from the end of 1995 in line with the country's
commitments under the MP.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
18. The import of ODS into Hungary has been stopped by law since 1996 in accordance with the
requirements of the country's status as an Article 2 member of the MP. Implementation of the
Project was delayed for about six months at the beginning due to the introduction of the
Hungarian State Treasury in 1997, which resulted in changes in Hungarian financial and banking
regulations. All participants felt that GEF's role was critical in speeding up the conversion from
ODS use. Some stated that without the GEF grant, they would have ceased production with
attendant job losses. Others said that they would have implemented non-ODS technologies
(solvent cleaning) in ways that would have posed a greater health risk to employees.
19. Project Wide Factors.   The defining legal framework for the Project was the London
Amendment to the MP, ratified by Hungary in 19926. The associated requirements in respect of
ODS consumption were enshrined in Hungarian Law via a ministerial decree in 1992. This was
superseded in 1993 by a ministerial decree (22/1993) which contained inter alia specific
measures to make recovery, reclamation and recycling of refrigerant compulsory. From 1997
ODS refrigerants and halon fire fighting agents had to be recovered and recycled in a closed-
circuit system. Only technicians who had undergone special training in refrigerant recovery and
the use of new refrigerants could service refrigeration systems (see paragraph 37.) and HCFCs
were controlled according to the requirements of the MP with permits being required for imports.
Records of any concern handling more than 100 kg of controlled substances per year were
obliged to make reports on service activities to the MOE. The use of ODS as aerosol propellants
and halons was banned from end of 1993, and the use of ODS solvents was banned from end
1995.
20. A so-called Product Fee Law was passed in 19957 that imposed a levy on waste producing
manufactured in Hungary and imported products, including those containing CFCs and HCFCs
such as refrigerators. Receipts from this went to the Central Environmental Protection Fund and
are earmarked for ODS phaseout activities. They have been used to subsidize the operation of
the 3R scheme and to provide counterpart funding for some projects, and financing of the Public
Awareness Raising Campaign (PARC) carried out in 1998 (see paragraph 105. - "Key Lessons
Leaned").
6 Hungary ratified the Copenhagen amendment in 1994
7 Schedule 4 to Act LVI (1 995). This equates to a charge of about $US6.0 for an average refrigerator. This was the only
economic incentive approved to encourage use non-ODS; fiscal measures of any kind were frowned upon as Hungary
entered the new era of economic liberalization.



- 7 -
21. This legislation is very comprehensive and will not require modifying until Hungary is
subject to EU regulations8. The problem is enforcement of bans on the import of CFC
refrigerants and the export of halons (see sub-project descriptions paragraphs 71-78.). The
former may prevent the 3R scheme from reaching its full potential (see paragraph 100 -
"Recommendations and Future Actions" below).
22. Monitoring. The MP and its amendments require signatories to phase out their production
and consumption9 of ODS. There is no requirement placed on them to estimate or control stocks
of ODS, which, for non-producing countries like Hungary, consist mostly of refrigerants lying in
working systems. Countries are free to manage existing refrigerant stocks as they wish.
Signatories are obliged to report on ODS production and consumption each year. The
compliance with the MP is monitored by the calculation of the annual consumption in
comparison to the consumption in the reference year. The reference year for Article 2 countries
is 1986, while for the Article 5 countries, the baseline is the average ODS consumption in 1995-
1997'°. The appropriate monitoring indicators for an ODS phaseout project are thus the ODS
consumption before, during and after project implementation. Statistical Tables 5.A. and 5.3.
give a complete picture of this consumption, broken down to show the contribution made by
each Sub-project to phaseout. Details are presented in Tables 5.C and 5.D. The Implementation
Committee under the Non-Compliance Procedure for the Montreal Protocol in his NR.
UNEP/OzL.Pro/ImpCom/20/4 of 9 July, 1998 reported that Hungary's ODS phaseout was in
compliance with the consumption reduction schedule and fully successful.
Institutional Strengthening Component
Sub-project 1. Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
23. This was set up in 1994 as an office within the Ministry of Environment (MOE) with a remit
to supervise and expedite the implementation of the Ozone Project within the terms of the Grant
Agreement. Its establishment within the MOE is considered a key element in its success. Senior
officials in the MOE understood problems as they arose and were able to lobby intelligently with
other ministries. Potentially serious problems such as the classification of refrigerants as
dangerous waste (see project description paragraph 39.) were resolved because the officials
concerned all belonged to the MOE.
24. A Technical Advisory Group (TAG) was set up comprising local Hungarian experts in each
of the fields where projects were being implemented. These advised on technical choices,
inspected completed projects and provided detailed advice on additional project elements
8 Hungary will accede to the EU probably in 2002-2004. If proposed legislation currently before the EC is adopted, controls on
HCFC's will have to be modified. It will be proposed to ban CFC recovery and recycling as part of a desperate bid against
illegal CFC imports into the EU which have proved impossible to control.
9 Protocol definition of consumption is production plus imports minus exports of controlled substances.
to For individual sub-projects, the progress of phaseout is normally measured against the consumption during the last full year
before project implementation.



-8 -
financed  from  unallocated  funds.   The PIU  provided  enterprises with  the  services of a
procurement expert to ensure Bank procurement procedures were being properly followed" .
25. The ODSINFO computer database was set up under the Project to facilitate the ODS
consumption and use reporting tasks mandated under Decree 22/1993. This system collects and
compiles information from the Regional Environmental Inspectorates into the central ODSINFO
database which can be accessed in turn by other environmental databases (e.g. air quality,
hazardous waste, etc.).
The 3R Component
Sub project 2. Establishment of a Refrigerant Recovery, Reclamation, Recycling (3 R) Network.
26. This sub-project was implemented by the Hungarian Refrigeration and Air Conditioning
Enterprises Association (HRACA). HRACA was created in 1993 as a response to trade concerns
over the promulgation of Hungary's first legislation announcing a ban on import of ODS
refrigerants'2 from  the end of 1995 in accordance with the provisions of the MP. From  24 in
1993, membership has grown to 454 trade enterprises. Its present strength is a direct result of the
ODS phaseout project.
27. Modeled on the Czech 3R scheme, this sub-project was designed in the very early phase to
provide for i) the training of service technicians working in Refrigeration and Air Conditioning
and ii) the establishment of three refrigerant reclaim centers and supply of recovery machines to
service companies. This approach was modified early in its development, as it became apparent
that the Czech scheme was not functioning as intended. The number of reclaim center was
reduced to one (based in Budapest) and the distribution of recycling machines added to recovery
machines'3.
28. The performance of the scheme has entirely vindicated these changes. It is more profitable
for service companies to recycle recovered refrigerant themselves rather than send it to a central
depot for reclaim. This was at the heart of the difficulties with the Czech scheme, but feedback
from the Czech Republic enabled the Hungarian scheme to be re-designed in time to avoid these
problems. The Hungarian scheme is being studied by the Czechs in an effort to make theirs
work. This mutual feedback has been made possible through the regional workshops launched
organized by the Bank (see paragraph 91.).
l Procurement in general proceeded smoothly. Training enterprises themselves in procurement methods may have avoided a
problem experienced in the 3R project (see paragraph 105)
12 Principally CFC-12. It was very widely used as a domestic, commercial and industrial refrigerant. When HRACA came into
existence, the refrigeration trades were not aware of the possibility of GEF grant funding.
3 Both Reclaim machines and recycling machines clean refrigerant. In conjunction with product testing equipment, reclaim
machines enable recovered refrigerant to be regenerated to meet the standards of new refrigerant (e.g. ARI-700 the US
standard of purity for new refrigerants). With a cost roughly 10% of reclaim machines, recycling machines are less efficient
but adequate for all but the most heavily contaminated refrigerant. They are not supplied with test equipment, and thus the
final quality of "recycled" is not guaranteed.



-9 -
29. The scheme has not performed quite as designed, but is considered satisfactory. The original
objective was to reduce overall CFC refrigerant consumption by 450 tons of refrigerants per
year, by retrofitting equipment with substitute refrigerants and recovering and re-using
refrigerants where possible. This figure is now estimated at 460 metric tons per year pro-rating
the amount recycled from the six months during which the scheme has been in operation. Table
5.H. in the Annex shows the breakdown of refrigerants reclaimed and recycled, and the effect
this has had on the total refrigerant stock14. Of the 450 tons reliably estimated as Hungary's
demand for refrigerants to be used for the repair and service of cooling systems, 120 tons are
estimated as the potential contribution of the 3R scheme over a year period. During 1998, 320
tons of non-CFC refrigerants were imported"5.
30. Of the 70 tons recovered, 13 tons was processed by the central Budapest reclaim facility, and
the remainder through 325 recycling machines located in service workshops throughout the
country. This widespread use of recycling machines has caused no obvious problems in respect
of poor refrigerant quality. In the case of heavily contaminated refrigerants, technicians are
reported to pass the refrigerant through "burn-out" filters prior to the recycling machine'6, which
appears to yield refrigerants of adequate quality.
31. Fifty percent of the refrigerants processed by the reclaim  facility are said to come from
service companies, and the remainder from the retrofit of large plants. Effectively therefore only
5 tons emanate from conventional service operations"7. This reflects experience in other
countries and vindicates HRACA's decision to purchase recycling machines at the expense of
reclaim equipment. The 13 tons reclaimed is less than that estimated for the operation of a single
reclaim center, but this has been worthwhile financially for the reclaim operators and the center
can be considered financially sustainable for an indefinite period. Refrigerants have been
purchased at an average of US$6.8/kg and sold at US$12.0 (about 6 percent of the present
redemption price is a subsidy from the Central Environmental Protection Fund). An additional 3
tons of HCFC-22 have been reclaimed"8. The resulting operating profit of over US$50,000 has
been attractive for the chemical company which runs the center and has integrated it with an
existing operation to re-package imported refrigerants, household fluids and vehicle anti-freeze'9.
Of the 10 tons total, only 200 kg were found to be un-reclaimable mixtures and the operation
4 This is refrigerant currently being used in refrigeration systems, or stored following reclaim/recycling prior to re-use. Since
CFC-1 2 and R-502 are in great demand the amount of refrigerant in the latter category will not be significant.
5 'The balance is partly the retrofit quantity and the possible illegal import of about 60 tons. The difficulty of stemming the flow
of illegally imported refrigerant is discussed below in paragraph 100 "Future Operations".
1 Refrigerant from a system with a (semi) hermetic compressor yields the most heavily contaminated refrigerant when the motor
windings burn out. A bum-out filter is a special device to clean a system when this has occurred
17 Performance of central reclaim schemes in developed countries was very poor (I -2% of refrigerant consumed) until the retrofit
of refrigeration systems with non-CFC refrigerants started in earnest and yielded significant quantities of recovered
refrigerant that reclaim centers could handle. In the UK around 20% of consumption is now being reclaimed. The large-
scale practice of retrofit is now recognized as the sine qua non of successful reclaiming.
' With only 5% of the ODP of CFC-12, the recovery of HCFC-22 makes an insignificant contribution to ODS phaseout, but the
ability of reclaim centers to handle all refrigerants guarantees their financial sustainability in the long term when the stock
of CFC refrigerants falls.
19 Operating at 60 kg/hr, the reclaim machine can re-process this amount in 22 working days. The ability to assign its operation to
staff employed primarily for other duties is thus a considerable advantage.



- 10-
yielded 200 kg of oil sludge. The former must eventually be incinerated in a specialized
incinerator at a present cost of about $5.0/kg2°. The sludge (which contains only minute amounts
of CFC) has been incinerated in an approved fashion by a local waste contractor. A tribute to
thorough technician training, the low incidence of un-reclaimable mixtures will eventually
impose only a small financial penalty on the scheme's operation.
32. HRACA  and the operators believe that the scheme can attract more refrigerants.  The
operators anticipate higher profits are possible, and are currently aiming at 15-20 tons per year.
A larger amount processed through reclaim plants will also be better for Hungary's stock of
refrigerant equipment and will result in less equipment failures related to poor refrigerant quality.
Presently over 40 percent of the selling price, the operators are prepared to reduce their margin to
20 percent to increase throughput2". The optimizing of the center's performance by fine-tuning
the price spread will be of great interest to the operators of the Czech reclaim center. This is one
of the most important elements in the demonstration value of this sub-project to both the Czech
scheme and other GEF funded 3R schemes currently in preparation.
33. The equipment supplied to the Reclaim Center has worked satisfactorily. The refrigerant test
equipment (gas chromatograph and Karl Fischer moisture detection equipment) has proved to be
capable of being operated by a trained technician22. The quality of refrigerants reclaimed easily
meets the standard of new refrigerants and the equipment suppliers23 are considered to have
provided adequate support.
34. The performance of recovery equipment and the suppliers of this have given rather less cause
for satisfaction. GEF funds were used to purchase 2 types of medium capacity recovery
machines from US suppliers, 325 Thermaflow OzSaver 3000 units and the corresponding
attachment (Cyclepak 3030) that converts these to recycling machines, and 150 MDI Pinnacle
5115 recovery machines. In an addition to the original project design, a further 150 Thermaflow
OzSaver Cyclepak 3030 sets were purchased (making a total of 325 recycling machines), and
150 low capacity Ekotez Micro R machines, and 40 Promax RG 5000 machines24. Additional 40
Promax RG 5000 recovery/recycling machines were purchased with funds from the Central
Environmental Protection Fund of Hungary. Several of one US supplier's machines have broken
down and the manufacturers will not reply to HRACA's requests for help. The makers of the
Thermaflow  machine appear uninterested in sending spares for the equipment they have
supplied, offering to supply these only in complete container loads.
20 It is currently stored in 60 kg refrigerant cylinders until a suitable quantity for shipment has been collected. This is an entirely
acceptable approach; the use of a number of smaller cylinders reduces the chances of a catastrophic loss if e.g. a pressure
relief valve fails.
21 The Czech experience has shown very clearly that unless the bulk of value added by reclaim is passed onto the technicians
who recover it, these will prefer to process it themselves and make more money
22 Some 3R scheme operators contend that a graduate analytical chemist is required for this role
23 Refrigerant Products Ltd. of the UK
24 The latter are small recovery machines light enough to be easily carried by a service mechanic to the upper floors of an
apartment block when repairing domestic equipment on site. The need for this had not initially been envisaged.



- 11 -
35. HRACA's bad experience with one of the U.S. suppliers has damaged the reputation of US
firms in the Hungarian refrigeration industry. The problem might have been avoided had
HRACA been better acquainted with the scope offered by the Bank procurement procedures and
their experience points to a way in which implementation could have been improved (see
paragraph 105 - "Key Lessons Learned").
36. These equipment have been distributed to individual service companies who make reports to
HRACA on amounts recovered and re-used/recycled refrigerant. HRACA estimates this is about
70 percent of the service companies in Hungary. Most of all the companies known to HRACA
now possess recovery equipment. Those not supplied under the project have either purchased or
made their own recovery machines.
37. The training element has been very successful. Numbers of technicians trained (3,681
counted to date) has exceeded original estimates of 2,000 by a considerable margin. Held at 27
locations and providing training in retrofit with new  refrigerants as well as recovery and
recycling techniques, these three-day courses were attended by managers as well as technicians.
After attending, about 85 percent of the active service, technicians received the so-called "Green
Card" as servicing operation license which attests to their successful completion of the course
and fulfils the legal requirements for them to practice as teclmicians (see paragraph 19. - "Project
Wide Factors"). This idea has been studied enthusiastically by both the Czech and the embryo
25
Slovenian scheme
38. The amounts recovered are satisfactory. Operations at both reclaim and recycling levels are
financially profitable and because of this, the operation of the 3R scheme can be considered
indefinitely sustainable. The large amounts of cheap CFC-12 still being smuggled into Hungary
prevent the scheme reaching its full potential.  See paragraph.100 - "Future Actions" for
approaches that are proposed for reducing this 26.
39. Several further difficulties were encountered during implementation. Thirty percent of the
funding was provided by the Central Environmental Protection Fund but access to these funds
was not a foregone conclusion, since they had to be applied for according to stringent regulations
and eligibility criteria.  Bureaucratic problems arose through the initial classification of
recovered refrigerant as a toxic waste, which could only be handled by licensed contractors. Re-
classification of used refrigerants as hazardous waste, still involved a potential problem
concerning the need  for permission to be obtained  from  over 100  local govermnent
envirolnmental agencies for refrigeration technicians to be able to recover refrigerants. The
regional environmental authorities fortunately adopted a flexible approach and the need for this
was avoided. This response was possible because of the existence of the PIU within the MOE,
the ministry responsible for ruling on the implementation of environmental legislation.
25 Another aspect of the demonstration value of the Project disseminated to these countries through the Bank organized regional
ODS phaseout workshops
26 Smuggled from the Ukraine, much of these are of Russian origin. Recent Russian agreements to cease CFC production by end
2001 will make a considerable difference



- 12 -
40. Formed as a trade organization and working under the democratic rules of association
common to such bodies, HRACA's elevation to the role of implementing agency for a US$ 2m
project created severe organizational problems relating to the sheer volume of work associated
with this undertaking. Describing themselves as a "mini PIU", HRACA officials feel that their
organization has not been properly compensated for this work and that their operating costs
could have been covered in the original project design. Finally 69,000 USD was granted to
HRACA out of GEF funds for their IOC, about 80 percent of their justifiable IOC request. The
difficulties related to the public relations company's poor performance in carrying out the Public
Awareness Raising Campaign (PARC) also contributed to the operating costs of HRACA. (See
paragraph 105. - "Key Lessons Learned").
Investment Component
Sub-project 3.   Phaseout of ODS in the manufacture of Refrigerators and Freezers at Frigolux
Co. Ltd.
41. This project was implemented largely as designed. Conversion to cyclopentane foaming was
delayed by six months because of stringent Hungarian electrical and flammable gas regulations 7.
Use of CFC-12 and R-502 refrigerants ceased at the end of 1996, and CFC- 11 was replaced by
the transitional foaming agent HCFC- 141 b at the end of 1995. This was completely replaced by
cyclopentane at the end of 199828. No technical problems have been encountered. The project
has thus been successfully completed and is indefinitely sustainable.
42. Without GEF funding Frigolux would have closed with the loss of 200 jobs. Implementing
the new project involved a root-and-branch revision of their production processes which are now
significantly more efficient than hitherto. Worker safety has improved because they are no
longer exposed to CFC-1 1 vapors. The cyclopentane system is completely hermetic.
43. Frigolux is satisfied with their present choice of refrigerants. The use of hydrocarbon
refrigerants would give them a market edge in German markets where a significant portion of
their production is sold. This combination would represent the most environmentally friendly
product. The production process yields virtually no hazardous waste; minute quantities of
cyclopentane are emitted to atmosphere during the foaming process and exhausted through the
ventilation system.
Sub-project 4.   CFC Free Foam Manufacturing for the Heat Insulation of Hot Water Storage
Tanks at HAJDU Co. Ltd.
44. This project was implemented essentially as designed. No problems were experienced other
than what were perceived as the slow functioning of the Bank procurement procedures. HAJDU
concedes however that sourcing funding on commercial markets would have taken longer and
27 More stringent than those in EU countries, these require separation of power and control circuits. Equipment was shipped with
some non-explosion proof components that had to be replaced under Hungarian regulations
28 This was past due. Frigolux found that the price of HCFC-141b was rising owing to the import controls (see paragraph 19. -
"Project Wide Factors")



- 13 -
involved more work. HAJDU ceased using CFC-1 1 for foaming in 1995. HCFC-141b29 was
used for two years from 1996-97, with C02 blown foam being progressively introduced from
30
1994. Production from 1998 has been entirely with C02 blown foam and Polystyrene .
45. Some extra equipment was provided from residual Project funds, consisting of polyurethane
(PU) component storage tanks and tooling for producing a rectangular hot water tank. HAJDU
purchased tooling for cylindrical tanks from their own sources. No exceptional environmental
issues were generated by the adoption of what is, as a component of atmospheric air, the most
environmentally friendly foaming agent possible. This has had a positive effect on HAJDU's
business and enabled it to weather the considerable difficulties of operating in an economy in
transition (EIT) environment (see paragraph 79. - "Global Benefits"). Significant incremental
operating costs were experienced because of the increased amounts of plastic material used.
These were foreseen and compensated in the original project costing.
46. Future developments involve looking at new zero ODS foaming agents such as HFC-245a
which reputedly produce a foam with insulating values close to HCFC-141b3'. Use of this with
the existing tank designs would produce a tank with a 30 percent better heat loss performance
than the present and previous designs. Use of processes32 that use C02 injected as a high-
pressure gas rather the reaction product of water and isocynate should be looked at. These could
reduce costs significantly. HAJDU is also considering replacing existing C02 arc welding
equipment with Ar/C02 gas welding. This would enable tanks to be made from lighter high
strength steel, reducing transport costs and the energy required to transport tanks, giving a
secondary environmental benefit.
Sub-project 5.   Phaseout of CFC- 1 1 in Sandwich Panel Production at Metalucon Ltd.
47. Metalucon make a similar product to Metisol, namely sandwich panels for building and
coldstore construction, but have opted for a different technical solution. They have found no
problems with their choice of cyclopentane as the foaming agent.
48. Without GEF funding the factory would have probably closed when CFC-1 1 was no longer
available. The production process yields virtually no hazardous waste; small quantities of
Country Program are emitted to atmosphere during the foaming process and exhausted through
the ventilation system. Metalucon's business is now stable, although unlike other project
participants their business has not been affected either way by the acquisition of new
technology33. Worker safety is unchanged; they previously used pre-blended CFC- 11 polyol and
workers were not exposed to CFC-1 1 vapor. Use of CFC-1 1 was replaced by HCFC-141b at the
29 A transitional substance with a low ODP (3% of CFC-I 1), its use is allowed under MP rules but with restrictions.
30 A low performing insulation used only for small handbasin electric water heaters, its production involves no ODS whatsoever
3 lC02 gives foam with 30% increased heat conductivity compared to CFC- I 1. This was compensated by re-designing the tanks
to have thicker insulation. HCFC-141b gives foam with only 5% higher conductivity than CFC-1 I
32 Like the Cardio (patented by Cannon Italy) process currently used only for flexible foam
33 Metalucon have no export business



-14 -
end of 1995; use of was completely replaced by Country Program at the end of 1998. The sub-
project has therefore been successfully completed and is indefinitely sustainable.
49. This sub-project has some demonstration potential for 3-4 other Hungarian panel producers
who now have examples of both flammable and non-flammable gas foaming agents to consider.
Sub project 6.  Phaseout of CFC- 11 in Sandwich Panel Production at Metisol Ltd.
50. All equipment has been supplied and is working without problems. Implementation has
followed the original project design, except for polyol storage tanks and pumps supplied with
residual Project funds. This has made the process entirely hermetic and is an improvement over
the drum method of storage originally proposed.
51. This and an improved ventilation system installed as part of Metisol's contribution have
improved worker conditions considerably from the time when they were exposed to CFC- 11 and
latterly HCFC-141b vapors. New methyl-chloride/hot water injection head cleaning made
possible by the new high pressure foaming equipment has improved the environmental impact of
the process by preventing the need for wasteful emissions of foaming agent to clean the heads.
The only waste material is foam offcuts, which are collected by a registered waste contractor.
52. Acquisition of the new technology has improved Metisol's business position considerably,
partly due to their own investment in larger panel frames (see paragraph 79. - "Global Benefits").
53. Metisol still uses HCFC-141b for foaming but will shortly make a definite decision on a final
non-ODS foaming agent and guarantee to cease using HCFC-141b by April 1999. The original
choice was C02, but trials revealed an unacceptable degree of dimensional instability in the
foamed panels. Currently they favor HFC-134a, and await test results. They are also interested
a new pre-blended polyol proposed by ICI (UK) but do not know the agent involved.
Sub-project 7.  Phaseout of Gas Sterilizer Cartridge Production at Mediroll Ltd.
54. This project has now been successfully implemented. A significant problem has been
encountered and resolved.  The original choice of HFC-124 as a sterilizing agent was
implemented in 1995 following the issue of a temporary license by the Health Authorities.
Several hospitals reported seeing an oily deposit on plastic articles sterilized which turned out to
be caused by the HFC-124 acting as a solvent on the plastic filler. HFC-124 was withdrawn and
Mediroll developed an HFC-134a/ethylene oxide mixture to take its place. This has been in use
since mid-1998 and no problems have been reported. A license to use this substance has been
issued by the health authorities.
55. After encountering the problem with HFC-124, Mediroll found in the literature that the
problem had occurred before but solution found. Their solution appears to be novel and thus has
valuable demonstration potential outside Hungary.



- 15 -
Sub-project 8.   Phaseout of CFC-12/CFC-1 1 Propellant at the Auto-Mobil Ltd.
56. This project was implemented as designed. No problems were encountered. The sub-project
has been successfully implemented; use of CFCs ceased at the end of 1995. The choice of
hydrocarbons (HC) and compressed nitrogen and air as propellants (using a Hungarian patent)
represent the most environmentally friendly solutions available. Project funding was adjusted to
compensate higher operating costs. The project is indefinitely sustainable.
Sub-project 9.   Modification of Cleaning Technology of Automatic and Electronic Parts of Oil
and Gas Pipelines at MMG Works for Automatic Control Equipment Co. Ltd.
57. This project was implemented basically as designed. MMG Works found it necessary to
purchase ionizing equipment to treat mains water before use in the aqueous degreasing machines
purchased under the project. Wastewater treatment was added and funded from unallocated
funds.
58. ODS cleaning agents CFC-1 13 and 111 trichloroethane were completely phased out by early
1996. The present process actually works rather better than previous methods using ODS since
solid contaminants such as cutting oil additives are removed as well as grease deposits. Waste
material from the process consists of oil sludge, which is incinerated by an approved waste-
handling contractor. The project has thus been completed successfully and is indefinitely
sustainable. The demonstration value of this project is very great for the large number of general
engineering firms in Hungary. No formal activities in this regard have yet been undertaken;
MMG Works is keen to be involved in this. A video chronicling project implementation has
been made.
59. Some technical problems were encountered that required a significant amount of unforeseen
development work on the part of MMG Works. The suppliers provided little information about
the use of the equipment with components made of different metals34. With hindsight MMG
Works would have organized the project team differently; one engineer alone was responsible
for implementation. Had GEF grant funding not been available, MMG Works would likely have
chosen perchloroethylene (PCE) as solvent and modified existing non-hermetic equipment for its
use. This would have had adverse consequences for operator health. Actually the present
process has provided a significant health benefit. Previously workers were continuously exposed
to solvent vapors".
60. Bank procurement procedures enabled some new equipment to be identified through
International Shopping.
Sub-project 10. Phaseout of 111 Trichloroethane Photoresistant Developer at Hitelap Co. Ltd.
using an Alkaline Solution.
34 Unlike CFC- 113 and 111 Trichloroethane, a different aqueous solute is required for each metal. This complicates the process
considerably, and identifying these for each metal used was time-consuming
35 CFC- 113 is a suspected carcinogen, and causes liver problems



- 16-
61. Use of 111 trichloroethane at Hitelap ceased at the end of 1995. The only problems
encountered were related to waste water treatment. The full scope of what was required had not
been foreseen in the original project design and wastewater treatment equipment was purchased
with unallocated funds.
62. This sub-project has now been successfully implemented and is indefinitely sustainable.
Sub-project]]. Conversion from ODS Release Agents and Cleaning Fluids at the Tisza Shoe
Sole Ltd. Company
63. Use of CFC-11 solvent, 111 trichloroethane washing fluid and release agent ceased
completely from the end of 1995. The project was implemented as designed, except that the
wastewater treatment requirement had not been properly assessed during project design. The
problem was solved by using a wastewater treatment facility close to the Tisza Shoe plant.
64. This sub-project has now been successfully implemented and is indefinitely sustainable.
Sub-project 13. Conversion to Residue Free Soldering Processes at the BRG Company Ltd.
65. The use of CFC-1 13 to clean circuit boards after soldering ceased from the end of 1996. The
residue free Multicore-Multipure soldering techniques adopted under the project do not require
subsequent cleaning and thus rendered CFC-1 13 use for this purpose redundant.
66. This project was unusual in that no new equipment was needed. Funding was needed to
offset the higher operating costs using the new system. The sub-project was implemented as
designed and no problems were encountered. It has been successfully implemented and is
indefinitely sustainable.
Sub-project 14. Conversion from Dry Cleaning Processes Using CFCs to Perchloroethylene
Based Processes at Rutitex Co. Ltd.
67. This project was implemented basically as designed. PCE is a solvent with suspected health
risks. Four additional pieces of equipment were purchased to allow the residual sludge from
these machines to be removed without exposing the operatives to PCE vapors. The operation of
the equipment is now completely hermetic (only 0.1 percent of the PCE solvent is lost) and
atmospheric contamination of the workplace by PCE is at negligible levels. The Environmental
Authorities classify the Rutitex operation as a "non-emitting" process and have removed the
requirement for annual inspection.
68. Rutitex could have chosen either a hydrocarbon or a PCE based process. Both have
disadvantages; PCE cleans better but is more aggressive towards delicate fabrics like silk. HC's
are kind to fabric but less good at cleaning heavily soiled fabric. Rutitex opted for PCE because
it was non-flammable. The problem of finding a process for delicate fabric remains and Rutitex
are looking for a solution. They have ruled out any HC process, but think water based reagents
might provide a solution.



- 17 -
69. The sub-project has considerable demonstration potential. Many smaller dry cleaning
companies that exist have to replace their equipment in the near future36.
70. Rutitex are very pleased with the operation of the plant. Operating costs are lower37 and they
have had no technical problems. Use of CFC-1 1 and CFC-1 13 ceased at the end of 1996. The
sub-project has been successfully implemented and is sustainable for the foreseeable future.
Sub-project 15. Recovery and Regeneration of Halon by the Fire Protection Association
71. This project was designed in response to provisions in the Ministerial Decree 22/1993 (see
paragraph 19. - Project Wide Factors) which stipulates inter alia that from 1997 halons must be
recovered in a closed cycle when appliances are serviced.
72. This project has been implemented as designed. Additional equipment was required in the
shape of a vacuum pump on the recovery unit, a pneumatic clamp to cope with different sized
cylinders, an electronic scale and a gas detector to ensure that air contamination in the reclaim
center is kept at safe levels. Also unexpectedly high levels of contamination shortened the life of
the reclaim unit pump unit, which had to be replaced. Some of these items were purchased with
unallocated Project funds.
73. The contamination levels that have come to light through the operation of the halon reclaim
center have revealed an unexpected level of illegal activity on the part of Hungarian companies
who service portable halon extinguishers. According to the FPA sand and oil are in certain cases
used to make up the weight of leaked halon in these extinguishers. One regeneration filter was
completely destroyed before this was realized38.
74. The practice of adulteration is part of the lax attitude to fire protection that has developed in
Hungary with the emergence of small and medium size enterprises struggling to survive in the
harsh new economic climate. Initially, amounts recovered matched estimates, but the Fire
Protection Association (FPA) was surprised by a sharp decrease in the second half of 1998. The
reason for this is simply the high cost of halon regeneration when properly carried out.
Formerly, state owned enterprises were subject to rigorous fire protection rules that were
properly enforced. In theory there still exists a legal requirement for all appliances to be checked
at six-month intervals, but this regulation is frequently ignored. The FPA has responded to this
by reporting the companies using their services to the Fire Protection Authority. Since only
about 18 enterprises in Hungary service halon fire extinguishers, it will be easy for the FPA to
detect those ignoring the regulation and act accordingly by withdrawing Permits to Operate.
36 A GEF funded dry cleaning project in neighboring Slovakia uses a hydrocarbon process. Hungarian diy cleaning firms thus
have a chance to evaluate both types of system.
37 These were anticipated and allowance was made in project funding.
38 Normal contamination of halon cylinders would consist only of debris from the corroded inner surface of the cylinder. This
egregious contamination wreaks havoc with the reclaim equipment, witness the failure of the pump



- 18 -
75. Implementation of this sub project has thus had the added benefit of allowing enterprises
ignoring appliance-servicing regulations to be detected, and improving the stock of halon in
appliances. This has improved public safety. Previously 15 percent of stocks were wasted when
equipment was serviced; this has been reduced to less than two percent with the new equipment.
76. Despite these problems, this sub-project has been successfully implemented. The operation
is financially viable with the lower throughput. Enforcement of the appliance inspection rules by
the Fire Protection Authority should result in the amounts handled by the FPA being restored to
earlier levels. The operation is thus sustainable in the foreseeable future.
77. The evolution of halon stocks since 1994 estimated by the FPA is summarized in Table 5.1.
3. FPA noticed that stocks have dwindled to about half their original level through fire fighting,
imperfect halon handling (i.e. leaks) and illegal export. The last element is a worrying trend that
is being addressed by the Customs Department (see paragraph 100. - "Future Operation"). The
principal destination is thought to be Ukraine and Romania.
78. The FPA is pleased with the performance of the operation and feels that it has demonstration
value for countries setting up these schemes. Future plans involve studying the possibility of
establishing a halon "bank". This involves purchasing halon from enterprises whose fire
protection requirements can be met by other means, and storing it for use on essential
applications40.
79. Global Benefits.    Several enterprises where CFC-l I and CFC-1 13 had been in use as a
foaming agent and as solvents, reported that workplace conditions had improved considerably
because of the introduction of hermetic systems where the new chemicals were contained within
a closed cycle4". Central reclaiming of halon has improved public safety by improving the
quality of halon and bringing the illegal activities of some of the fire extinguisher servicing
companies to light.
80. Another significant advantage was that given by the acquisition of new technology to
enterprises struggling in an Economy in Transition. Seeing its traditional Hungarian white goods
market affected by the predatory dumping tactics of multinationals42, HAJDU compensated by
expanding its markets in Western Europe offering a high quality product that met the most
stringent environmental standards. Metisol was able to meet the requirements of new foreign
supermarket chains43 for the supply of insulated panels to their new Hungarian operations in
respect of quality and environmentally friendly production. Frigolux's refrigerators and freezers
now qualify for the German "Blau Engel" sticker by virtue of using a non-ODS refrigerant and
39 Note that stocks of Halon 2402 are not given. These are all used by the military who will not reveal the amounts they hold
40 Halon is the best fire-extinguishing agent known, being able to put out fires without damage to occupants or sensitive property
such as computers. According to Art.22/1993, the FPA is responsible for ruling whether an application constitutes an
"essential use". These might be aircraft, a children's' hospital, a fine arts museum.
41CFC-1 13 particularly is a suspected carcinogen and damages the liver. The health benefits are significant
42 Electrolux and Whirlpool especially
43 e.g. Spar, Penny Market, Kaiser



- 19 -
hydrocarbon foaming agent. The company has built up a significant export trade there44 and in
other Western European countries.
81. All technologies introduced under the Project represent state-of-the-art solutions in their
particular areas. As an aspiring member of the EU, it is important that technologies introduced
in Hungary are in step with European practice and will not fall foul of new legal measures as
Hungarian legislation is modified45. In particular it is advantageous that use of all transitional
substances such as HCFC-141b has ceased. EU phaseout regulations for these have become
markedly more stringent in the recent past and threaten to become more so shortly.
82. ODS activities catalyzed the establishment of professional associations such as HRACA and
FPA (see sub-project descriptions 1. & 15.). An Ozone Association was also formed. Surveys
found levels of public awareness on Ozone better than for S02 and NOX46.
83. Innovation.  All technologies introduced were innovative in the sense that Western
Technologies of choice were introduced into Hungary. Their implementation at Hungarian
enterprises has been completely standard and apart from the following no technical innovations
per se have been made, however product developments were substantial and innovative n respect
of environment protection, e.g. green-labeled products developments at HAJDU and Auto-
Mobil.
84. An entirely new technology was developed by Mediroll (Sub-project 7.) when their initial
choice of sterilant recommended by a large multinational supplier47 turned out to have
undesirable side effects. Mediroll developed an entirely new sterilant based on ethylene-oxide
and HFC-134a (see sub-project description paragraph 54.).  The problem  experienced by
Mediroll had been reported in the literature, and it follows that this solution will be of interest to
health authorities abroad.
85. Demonstration Value and Replicability.    The 3R scheme, the halon reclamation system,
the Mediroll innovation and part of the PARC activities have demonstration values abroad,
especially in the Countries of Independent States (CIS) countries and several other sub-projects
within Hungary itself. The country's three to four remaining insulated panel producers48 can
evaluate two different technologies in the shape of those implemented by Metisol and
Metalucon. The country's many dry cleaning concerns can study Rutitex's PCE based system, or
drive for a few hours to Lubljana and inspect the use of a hydrocarbon based system49 at Labod, a
participant in the analogous Slovenian ODS phaseout project. MMG Work's aqueous cleaning
44 Frigolux mentioned that they would have closed with the loss of 200 jobs, had the Grant not been available.
45 Full membership is expected in 2003. Screening of Hungarian legislation for compatibility started in 1999.
46 This was due to early campaigns carried out by the MOE and NGOs. These were nothing to do with the later - less successful -
PARC carried out by a large multi-national PR company (see paragraph 105 - "Key Lessons Leaned")
47 Dupont (US)
48 Currently using transitional HCFC-141b
49 the other standard non ODS solution to dry cleaning



- 20 -
system will be of interest to many Hungarian engineering concerns, where their experience of
matching particular solvents to individual metals should save a great deal of effort.
86. All the Project enterprises potentially offer a valuable example to other EIT countries on how
to manage change in an economy in transition with the help of GEF finance. The Project has
shown how exposure to Western markets can be turned to the advantage of companies with the
will to succeed. Countries like Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Yugoslavia are
in receipt of the MFMP, the former Soviet Republics and Russia itself of GEF funding in the
currently and the near future.
87. The success of the 3R scheme in particular is a potentially valuable example to many
countries. Ironically, one such will be the Czech Republic whose prior experience enabled
HRACA to modify their scheme and achieve better performance. Byelorussia and Russia are
both about to implement 3R schemes. Crucial data from this operation will be the ratio of
refrigerants reclaimed centrally to that recycled locally, and the operating costs of the central
reclaim facility.
88. Safety. As stated, project implementation has resulted in workplace environments becoming
healthier in a number of cases. The introduction of flammable cyclopentane at two enterprises
(Metalucon and Frigolux) was delayed because Hungarian regulations in respect of flammable
gas use were stricter than those in the Western European countries where the equipment was
produced. Workers and management have undergone appropriate training at these enterprises
and safety teams are in operation.
89. GEF Involvement. GEF assistance was crucial in enabling the enterprises to meet the
requirements of Article 22/1993 without negative consequences. All enterprises appreciated the
grant funding and said that had this not been available they would have closed (Frigolux,
Metalucon) or modified existing equipment with unpredictable health and safety consequences
(MMG Works, Rutitex). Others said they would have somehow found the money required,
though this would clearly have stretched them during an exceptionally difficult period. All
found Bank procurement procedures slow, but countered this by saying that sourcing finance on
commercial markets would have taken far longer and been more difficult. Most enterprises
already used tendering methods for procurement, but welcomed the support given by the local
Bank and PIU procurement experts.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
90. From a technical standpoint, implementation has proceeded smoothly and all enterprises have
indicated that they are fully satisfied with the results. The major external factor affecting the
Project was the change related to the establishment of the Hungarian State Treasury and the
introduced new respective regulations, which delayed the start of disbursements by about three
months. Also a delay in acquisition of recovery machines delayed the imposition of the legal
requirement to recover refrigerants under Decree 22/1993 by 6 months.



- 21 -
91. Hungary hosted two of the five ODS workshops that have catalyzed a high degree of co-
operation between Central European countries in receipt of GEF funding for ODS phaseout50.
The timely modification the HRACA 3R project described earlier was possible because access to
the Czech 3R scheme was available through this connection. A lively exchange of experience
and ideas has taken place both between PIUs responsible for managing these Projects and the
enterprises charged with choosing and implementing technologies.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
92. Under the Project, state-of-the-art technologies were introduced. The hydrocarbon based
technologies used in two Sub-projects removes Stratospheric Ozone Depletion and Global
Warming concerns, but hydrocarbons are not completely benign because, as Volatile Organic
Compounds (VOCs), they contribute to Smog formation51, but the quantity of hydrocarbons used
for this purpose is less than 0.1 percent of the total VOC emissions in Hungary. All these new
teclnologies are in compliance with all international environmental agreements and with the
relevant Hungarian regulations. Auto-Mobils use compressed air and nitrogen as a propellant for
some products, but hydrocarbons for others. If VOC contamination ever becomes an issue they
will be well placed to convert all their production to other propellant gases.
93. Most Sub-projects report that Project participation has improved their business. None report
a decline. The two recycling schemes (HRACA and the Fire Protection Association) are
processing significantly lower amounts of products than anticipated, but the operation of both
schemes appears financially viable. In both cases, improving the enforcement of existing
legislation52 can only improve their performance. From every standpoint therefore the Project is
sustainable for the foreseeable future.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
94. The Bank's performance in preparation, appraisal and implementation was satisfactory,
despite two changes in task manager over the life of the Project. The Bank's missions were
staffed with highly qualified professionals in environmental, procurement, technical and
financial fields. The priorities both of Hungary and GEF were appropriately addressed as were
those of the MP and its related amendments and adjustments. The decision at the mid-term to
move supervision responsibility for the Project to the Bank's Regional Office in Hungary was
especially welcomed by the Recipient, as it overcame problems arising from time difference and
distance.  It allowed the Bank to provide almost continuous procurement and project
management support as required by the PIU in the course of implementation. Also launching
and managing a series of regional workshops dealing with policy issues and incentives, for
example for the 3R scheme with the involvement of the grant recipient countries of the region for
exchange of experiences and good practices proved to be very useful for all participants.
50 Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia and Hungary. Representatives from Russia and Byelorussia have attended some meetings
5I Tropospheric Ozone
52 i.e. Stricter border control to prevent illegal import of CFC-12 and illegal exports of Halons



- 22 -
95. The working relationships of the groups involved in the Project, namely the Bank, the grant
Recipient institutions, the MOE, the PIU, the NBH, the participating financial intermediary
banks and the fifteen enterprises were excellent. Bank missions ensured that rules regarding
GEF eligibility criteria, and procurement and financial reporting guidelines, were being followed
and provided useful guidance on technical issues, project management, and institutional
strengthening advice to the PIU, the financial intermediary and the grant recipient enterprises.
F.    RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE
96. Many of the Project's achievements were due to the good cooperation between the project
management entities and the participating enterprises. This enabled them to successfully tackle
the challenges that emerged during implementation. HITELAP, HAJDU, MMG, and Rutitex all
adapted quickly to these challenges. HRACA's decision-making procedure was at times
extremely slow due to the association nature of the entity. The MOE, HRACA and FPA had to
provide much more input in the public awareness raising campaign (PARC) because of the
Consultants' performance. The whole staff of the MOE and the PIU, supported by the TAG,
were highly committed, good professionals, whose input was critical for exceptionally effective
project management and coordination. The experience could serve as a model for other
countries.
97. All legal covenants were met in a timely fashion. The closing date was extended twice by six
months. The extensions were required because of delays in implementation, procurement and
some changes in Sub-project designs, more specifically due to delays in the procurement of
recycling equipment in the 3R component and explosion safe equipment replacement of HC
foaming machines at the Frigolux and Metalucon and the related authoritative permit procedure.
The PARC caused delays for two reasons: i) the competition preparation documents had to be
resubmitted several times for incompleteness and the contracting procedure took almost half a
year; ii) the PARC implementation needed much longer time than planned since the Consultants
materials regularly had to remade by the MOE, PIU, TAG, HRACA and FPA as well as the
Bank's local office. Even a follow up campaign carried out by an NGO was needed to complete
the work that the PR company should have done. All of the Hungarian agencies involved with
the Project performed in an exemplary fashion. Project implementation and reporting was
punctual and efficient.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
98. Overall the performance of the Project has been very good. Satisfactory technical solutions
have been identified and successfully implemented. The business position of enterprises has
been unaffected or, in some cases, significantly improved by Project participation. No egregious
economic costs to Hungary can be identified and the Project provided some participants with an
opportunity to improve their economic position.
99. Efficacy.    The importance of the institutional component in supporting the Country
Program and the phaseout of ODS in Hungary needs to be stressed. The PIU's early
involvement during preparation and its management and coordination activities at the country
level, and the provision of exchange of information and knowledge, resulted not only in smooth



- 23 -
Project implementation, but in the complete phaseout of ODS in Hungary as required by the MP.
The PIU provided technical and procurement expertise at sub-project enterprises. By alerting
MOE officials to potentially counter-productive aspects of hazardous waste legislation, the PIU
enabled those officials to adopt a flexible attitude and avoid a situation that would have
paralyzed the 3R scheme. The PIU monitors the reporting of refrigerant and halon recovery
activities, and ensures that appropriate information on the consumption are made to the MOE,
thereby facilitating reporting to the MP.
H.  FUTURE OPERATION
100.  No enterprises are currently contemplating  a change to  a newer generation of
environmentally friendly technologies. HAJDU are considering a change to their welding
equipment that will enable them to use thinner steel, reducing the cost and energy required for
transport.
101.  Recommendations.   The most significant future operations will be attempts on the part
of the Customs Service to reduce illegal imports of CFC refrigerant and illegal exports of halon
from Hungary. The MOE is currently studying a project to equip and train customs officers to
identify refrigerants. The main import routes have been identified53 and policing these is thought
to be a feasible task. Enforcement of Decree 22/1993 regulations will improve the position of
the HRACA and FPA 3R schemes.
102.  European countries have found it next to impossible to stem the flow of illegal CFCs.
This has culminated in legislation currently before the Commission to ban all trade in CFCs54 in
a desperate response to stop these imports. An interesting situation can develop when Hungary
has to bring its legislation in line with European law if this is approved. In the meantime
however, Hungary should encourage the recovery and recycling of refrigerants which reduces
the economic cost of ultimate transition to expensive substitutes.
103.  Having redesigned their tanks with a thicker insulation layer to compensate for the poor
insulation characteristics of C02 blown foam, HAJDU could theoretically improve their
performance dramatically by using new foaming materials based on HFC-245a, without
changing the dimensions of the tanks. This would cost rather more which might be a cost-
effective development in some markets such as Germany, but a liability in others55. Frigolux
should consider introducing hydrocarbon refrigerants in their product range. This would involve
some product re-design, but should be an advantage in German markets. The small charges
involved and the fact that they already handle cyclopentane in their factory makes this entirely
feasible.
104.  Cooling systems affect the environment in two ways, through emissions of ODS and
through their contribution to Global Warming (GW). This Project has dealt effectively with the
53 from Ukraine to the East. The large quantities involved can only enter the country along one railway and about four roads
54 i.e. including the trade within countries in recovered and recycled refrigerant. The 3R scheme will thus be illegal
55 HAJDU found that their new C02 foamed tanks were popular in Germany but not in France where probably their higher prices
affected sales



- 24 -
former; the latter is a very large issue, which as participants in the Kyoto Conference on Climate
Change agreed in, Hungary will have to seriously consider in the near future. Both the energy
efficiency of systems (generally about 15 percent of all electrical energy consumed) and the
direct global warming effect of HFC refrigerants will have to be considered. The MOE has
initiated resolving these issues.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
105.  The most salutary lesson relates to the PARC. This was designed to be implemented in
1998 to coincide with the launch of the 3R scheme. It was intended to mobilize public support
behind the scheme, as well as sensitizing the public to Ozone issues generally.
106.  The Hungarian branch of a multi-national public relations (PR) company (the
Consultants) was retained to organize a PARC, which would co-opt NGOs in a lively campaign
culminating in a series of memorable Ozone Day events across Hungary.
107.  The Consultants' performance is described by all involved as lackluster and below
standard. Complaints include assigning low level staff to the operation, failing to harness the
efforts of NGOs and relying on the PIU and Bank for information on Ozone issues. At one stage
withholding final payment was seriously considered.
108.  Consultants "hungry" to get the job, but not committed to true environmental
improvements are now considered an inappropriate choice for such a campaign. In the future,
PR firms well experienced in environment together with NGOs may be used as the lead
contractors, with resources to incorporate the services of PR firms where these may be
appropriate56. One reason that the Consultants won the contract was the fact that evidence of
previous success in organizing an environmental campaign countered for only five percent of the
tender score.
109.  The 3R scheme is unhappy with its choice of one United States supplier of recovery and
recycling equipment (see sub-project description paragraph 26.). This supplier seemed to have
disappeared from the map, and is not available to deal with the exceptional level of mechanical
failures experienced by his equipment. In fact HRACA had misgivings about this Bidder at the
tendering stage, and endeavored to nullify its declaration of this Bidder as the winner of the IS
bid shortly after it was made57.
110. HRACA complained that Bank procurement procedures did not allow them to examine
and test goods from different suppliers, unaware that this could have been made a condition of
prior participation in the tender. This suggests that training of sub-project enterprises themselves
in procurement procedures would be a good idea. As it was, the Bank provided comprehensive
training to the PIU, but clearly direct training of enterprises in procurement would have been
useful.
56 e.g, making TV shorts
57 A Bank technical expert was invited to adjudicate but could find no prima facie reason to allow this exceptional step



- 25 -
111.  With hindsight it can be seen that in some cases, better planning would have improved
implementation. All implementation activities and budget items should be carefully planned at
project preparation. The projects animating a large number of participants as the case of 3R can
have enormous high administrative costs.  Plant level planning involving environmental
accessory equipment, like the wastewater treatment in the solvent sector sub-projects should
have been considered at design stage. The need for wastewater treatment plant at MMG Works,
Hitelap and Tisza was not originally included and was only covered because spare funds were
available. HRACA also complained that their high costs relating to supervising the 3R scheme
should have been included.
112. Knowing what they know now, the PIU would eliminate small disbursement packages,
and leave small projects for counterpart funding. The complication of Bank procedures makes
small elements unworkable.






- 26 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28306
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5A: Usage of ODS in Hungary in 1992 Broken Down by Substances
Table 5B: Consumption of ODS in Hungary in 1992 According to UTNEP Formats
Table 5C: Trends in ODS Consumption by End User Sectors in Hungary
Table 5D: Actual ODS Use
Table SE: ODS Phaseout / Base Year Level
Table SF: ODS Phaseout / Actual Production Level
Table 5G: Cost Effectiveness of the Hungary ODS Phaseout Project
Table 5H  Refrigerant Stocks
Table 5I  Halon Stocks and Regeneration
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies, Training and Workshops Included in Project
Table 8:  Project Costs and Financing
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions






- 27 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial                      Neglible        NotaW   licable
Macro Policies                       a               a                5
Sector Policies                                      5 0              0
Financial Objectives                 a              E                                   E0
Institutional Development           ii                               IJ                 11
Physical Objectives                  5                                5                 5
Poverty Reduction                    5               5                O
Gender Issues                        S          -                     El
Other Social Objectives              5               5                5
Environmental Objectives             53 
Public Sector Management             5                                5                 5
Private Sector Development           5                                5                 5
GEF Objectives                                       5                5 O
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(Continued)



- 28 -
Highy
C. Bank Performance                Satisfactory             Satisfactory              Deficient
(/)                     (1)                      (/)
Identification                     E                                                III
Preparation Assistance             E3                                                El
Appraisal
Supervision                                                El
Higl
D. Recipient Performance           Satisfactory             Satisfactory              Deficient
(/)                     (/)                      (v')
Preparation                                                El                        El
Implementation                                              2
Covenant Compliance                                        I0      
Operation (ODS Phaseout)                                   El
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(/El                        El)               El)(



- 29 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit/grant/study     Purpose         Year of approval      Status
title
Preceding operations
I. Energy Rationalization  Energy saving  FY 1983           Completed
Project
II. Energy Rationalization  Energy saving  FY 1986          Completed
Project
Energy and Environment  Energy use        FY 1994           Under
project                efficiencies                         implementation
improvement /
environment
protection
Budapest urban transport  Environmental   FY 1995           Under
Project               improvement of                        implementation
public transport
Following operations
Municipal Wastewater    water quality     FY 1999           Will be signed mid
Treatment Project     improvement                           1999
Budapest, Dunaujvaros
Lake Balaton           water quality      FY 2000           Under preparation
Environment Project   improvement and
watershed
management
Renewable Energy       Significant use of the               Under preparation
Project Szombathely,   biomass
Szekesfehervar



-30 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    1993                 1993
Preparation                                 1994 -1995          1994 - 1995
Appraisal                                     05/95               05/95
Negotiations                                  08/95               09/95
Board Presentation                            09/95               09/95
Signing                                       11/95               11/95
Effectiveness                                 02/96               02/96
Project Completion                            12/98               12/98
Grant Closing                                 12/97               12/98
Table 4: Loan/Credit/Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY96   FY97   FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate       4.400   6.400    6.900  6.900 *
Actual                   2.153   5.690    6.412  6.493**
Actual as % of estimate    49      89       93        94
Date of final
disbursement
* Total Grant proceeds including foreign exchange gains
** US$53,575 remained undisbursed, unutilized



- 31 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A Usage of ODS in Hungary in 1992 Broken Down by Substances
Substance           Total Use       Ozone depleting     Total Use
(tons)         potential (ODP)      (ODP tons)
Annex A, Group I
CFC-11                     891                  1.0                891
CFC-12                   1,058                  1.0             '1,058
CFC-113                     18                  0.8                 14
CFC-114                      0                  1.0                  0
CFC-115                      0                  0.6                  0
Subtotal                 1,967                                   1,963
Annex A, Group II
Halon 1211                 110                  3.0                330
Halon 1301                   0                 10.0                  0
Halon 2402                   0                  6.0                  0
Subtotal                   110                                     330
Annex B, Group I
Other CFCs                   0                  1.0                  0
Annex B, Group II
CCl4                        73                  1.1                 80
Annex B, Group III
MCF                        360                  0.1                 36
Annex C, Group I
HCFCS(a)                  392(a)               0.055(a)             22(a)
TOTAL                    2,902                                   2,431
Note:
(a) - ODP for HCFC-22 was used for the determination of ODP usage of HCFC's



-32 -
B  Consumption(a) of ODS in Hungary in 1992 According to UNEP Formats
Substance           Consumption         ODP            ODP            ODP kg
(metric tons)                Consumption    per capita*
(ODP tons)
Annex A, Group I
CFC-11                    690            1.0           690             0.0690
CFC-12                   1,090           1.0         1,090             0.1090
CFC-113                     90          0.8             72             0.0072
CFC-114                     10           1.0            10             0.0010
CFC-115                      0          0.6              0                0
Total                        1,880                       1,862              0.1862
Annex A, Group II
Halon 1211                     150            3            450              0.0450
Halon 1301, others              20            10           200              0.0200
Total                          170                         650              0.0650
Annex A, Total               2,050                       2,512              0.2512
Annex B, Group I                  0          1.0              0               0
Annex B, Group II              200           1.1           220              0.0220
Annex B, Group III             447           0.1            45              0.0045
Annex B, Total                 647                         265             0.0265
Annex C, Total                 319          0.055            18             0.0018
Note:
--Population in 1993: 10 million
(a) - The difference in the data for ODS consumption according to UNEP formats and actual used quantity is due to different.
C Trends in ODS Consumption by End User Sectors in Hungary, Tons (% distribution)
End User Sector / Year       1986             1991             1992             1993
Refrigeration technology     1,100            867                0                0
(16%)            (40%)                     __   _
Plastic foams                1,250            603               0                 0
(18%)            (28%)
Aerosols                     2,520            262              1 wa              5(a)
(36 %)           (12 %)
Solvents                     1,760            350               0                 0
(25 %)           (16 %)
Fire-protection              455               65               0                 0
(halons)(a)                 (6 %)             (3 %)
TOTAL                        7,085            2,147            10 Om     5_a_
Note:
(a) - With permission of essential use for production of anti-asthma metered-dose inhalers
(b) - Halon consumption (import) had already been eliminated in 1994.



- 33 -
D Actual ODS Use
ODP tons
Actual ODS Use in ODP tons
Company            reference         1994          1995           1996            1997            1998
2. HRACA(a)           708.00       650.00          500.00         420.00          410.00         450.00
3. Frigolux            15.60         N/A.           13.30           3.10            0.60            0.30
4. HAJDU               63.30        40.66           32.13           1.20            1.20              0
5. Metalucon           45.60        N/A.            14.25           1.45            1.28            1.34
6. Metisol             80.00        N/A.            80.00           4.40            6.60           11.00
7. Mediroll           107.00         N/A.           N/A.          40.00     ___ 0_   _
8. Auto-Mobil          96.76         N/A. s0                           0              0 
9. MMG-AM              12.20         N/A.           N/A.      _               _              _
10. Hitelap             3.20        N/A.            0.45               0              0               0
11. Tisza               5.69        N/A.            2.68            0.16              0               0
12. F6 Finom.           1.16        N/A.            N/A.         ._ °                 0               0
13. BRG                 1.20        N/A.            N/A.               0              0               0
14. Rutitex             6.40        N/A.            N/A.            3.20              0               0
15. Fire. Prot. Ass."c)  269.70     N/A.            N/A.           28.80           94.80          60.40
Total                1,415.81      690.66          642.81         502.31          414.48          523.04
Note:
(a) - Service demand including regenerated + recycled + retrofitted refrigerant.
(b) - Imported regenerated
(c) - Service use including regenerated halop
E ODS Phaseout / Base Year Level
ODP tons
Company                Use       _                     ODS Phaseout / Base Year Level
reference        1994           1995           1996           1997           1998
year
2. HRACA              708.00              0              0         450.00         450.00         450.00
3. Frigolux            15.60              0           2.30          12.50          15.00          15.30
4. HAJDU               63.30          22.66          31.20          62.08          62.07          63.30
5. Metalucon           45.60              0          31.35.         44.15          44.32          44.26
6. Metisol             80.00              0              0          75,60          73.40          69.00
7. Mediroll           107.00              0              0          67.00         107.00          107.00
8. Auto-Mobil          96.76              0          96.76          96.76          96.76          96.76
9. MMG-AM              12.20              0              0          12.20          12.20           12.20
10. Hitelap             3.20              0             0            2.75           3,20           3.20
11. Tisza               5.69             0            3.01           5.53           5.69           5.69
12. F6 Finom.           1.16             0            1.16           1.16           1.16           1.16
13. BRG                 1.20             0            1.20           1.20           1.20           1.20
14. Rutitex             6.40              0             0            3.22           6.42           6.42
15. Fire. Prot. Ass.  269.70             0              0          269.70         269.70         269.70
Total                1415.81          22.66         166.98        1,103.85       1,148.12       1,145.19



- 34 -
ODS metric tons
Company                Use                              ODS Phaseout / Base Year Level
reference year     1994           1995           1996           1997           1998
2. HRACA              708.00              0              0         450.00         450.00         450.00
3. Frigolux            15.60              0           2.30          12.50          15.00           15.30
4. HAJDU               63.30          22.66          31.20          62.08          62.07          63.30
5. Metalucon           45.60              0          31.35          44.15          44.32          44.26
6. Metisol             80.00              0              0          75.60          73.40          69.00
7. Mediroll           107.00              0              0          67.00         107.00          107.00
8. Auto-Mobil          96.76              0         139.60         139.60         139.60         139.60
9. MMG-AM              12.20              0              0          90.50          90.50          90.50
10. Hitelap             3.20             0              0           27.50          32.00          32.00
11. Tisza               5.69             0           10.10          22.00          23.56          23.56
12. F6 Finom.           1.16             0            1.45           1.45           1.45           1.45
13. BRG                 1.20             0            1.50           1.50           1.50           1.50
14. Rutitex             6.40              0             0            4.04           7.94           7.94
15. Fire. Prot. Ass.  269.70             0              0           86.56          86.56          86.56
Total                1415.81          22.66         217.50        1,084.48        1,134.9       1,131.97
F   ODS Phaseout / Actual Production Level
ODP tons
Company                Use                           ODS Phaseout I Actual Production Level
Reference year     1994           1995           1996           1997           1998
2. HRACA              708.00              0              0         125.00         313.00         390.00
3. Frigolux            15.60           N/A.              0          10.80          10.40           10.00
4. HAJDU               63.30           8.13          16.34          55.36          69.22           59.11
5. Metalucon           45.60              0              0          23.36          20.75          21.75
6. Metisol             80.00              0              0          66.00          90.00          150.00
7. Mediroll           107.00              0              0           7.30         112.50          118.30
8. Auto-Mobil          96.76              0          61.00         100.10         110.90          107.10
9. MMG-AM              12.20              0              0          13.05          14.00           12.80
10. Hitelap             3.20             0              0            2.95           3.70           3.90
11. Tisza               5.69          N/A.            1.48           3.34           3.17           1.47
12. F6 Finom.           1.16             0              0              0               0              0
13. BRG                 1.20             0              0            1.32           1.32            1.20
14. Rutitex             6.40              0              0           3.20           6.47           6.08
15. Fire. Prot. Ass.  269.70             0              0           28.80          94.80          60.40
Total                1415.81           8.13          78.82         440.58         850.23         942.11



- 35 -
ODS metric tons
Company                               Use                             Phaseout / Actual Production Level
Reference year      1994          1995           1996           1997            1998
2. HRACA                                  0              0          125.00        313.00          390.00
3. Frigolux             15.60          N/A.              0           11.00          10.70          10.30
4. HAJDU               63.30            8.13          16.34          55.36          69.22          59.11
5. Metalucon           45.60              0              0          23.63          20.75           21.75
6. Metisol             80.00              0              0          66.00          90.00          150.00
7. Mediroll           107.00              0              0            7.30         112.50         118.30
8. Auto-Mobil         139.60              0          88.00          144.30         159.90         154.40
9. MMG-AM              90.50              0              0          96.80          103.90          95.00
1(). Hitelap           32.00              0              0          29.50          37.00           39.00
11. Tisza              23.56           N/A.            1.50         10.10           10.60           4.20
12. F6Finom.            1.45              0              0              0              0              0
13. BRG                 1.50              0              0            1.70           1.70           1.50
14. Rutitex             7.94              0              0           3.90           8.00            7.50
15. Fire. Prot. Ass.   86.56              0              0           5.40           17.70          12.70
Total            |    671.55            8.13         10,.84        549.99          954.97       1,063.76
G Cost Effectiveness of the Hungarian ODS Phaseout Project(a)
Company          Grant Cost      1998 ODP       GEF Grant       Grant Cost      Montreal Protocol
Effectiveness    Phaseout Actual  Actual Use   Effectiveness    Threshold
Estimated in the                               Actual
Project Document
US$/kg         ODP tons        US$ thousand    US$/kg          US$/kg
2. HRACA               3.15          390.00          1,362.4           3.49      15.21/13.76
3. Frigolux           30.52           10.00           441.6           44.17           15.21
4. HAJDU               15.85          59.11          1,010.7          17.10            9.53
5. Metalucon           15.88          21.75           685.0           31.50            9.53
6. Metisol             4.33          150.00           338.9            2.26            9.53
7. Mediroll            0.50          118.30            47.8            0.40            4.40
8. Auto-Mobil          0.86          107.10            81.3            0.76            4.40
9. MMG-AM             98.84           12.80          1,147.9          89.68      19.73 /38.5
10. Hitelap           56.18            3.90           187.1           47.97           38.50
11. Tisza             23.13            1.47           123.9           84.28           38.50
12. Fo Finom.         28.94            1.16               0               -           19.73
13. BRG               18.47            1.20            11.6            9.67           19.73
14. Rutitex           53.02            6.08           346.3           58.96      19.73 /38.5
15. Fire. Prot. Ass.   1.19           94.80           320.3            3.38            1.48
Total                  5.47          977.67          6,104.8           6.24
Note:
(a)-Cumulative amount of regenerated halon quantity ODS tons
-- As a comparison the actual grant cost effectiveness of the Czech ODS Phaseout Project was 0.98US$/kg based on
the 1997 ODS phaseout figure. The same for the Hungary and Poland projects under implementation is around
6US$/kg and for the Ukraine project that starts now, is around 13US$/kg.



- 36 -
H Refrigerant Stocks
ODP tons
1994        1995         1996         1997        1998         1999
Refrigerant Stocks              4,000        4,000        3,880       3,600        3,280        2,950
Total Service Demand              650          500         420          410          450          480
Recycled by mobile                  0            0          5()          30           60           75
equipment
Processed by central                0            0           0            3           10           15
reclaim unit
Retrofit                                         -         120          280          320          330
ODS refrigerant imports           710         480(b)        80'           -            -
Recycled + reclaimed                0            0         125          313          390          420
+retrofitted                |
(a) - Several dozen-service enterprises have acquired reclaiming appliances outside the framework of the GEF project and have
started recycling before 1997, when the operation of the 3R begun.
(b) - Partially sold in the following year (from 1994 to 1995 60 tons, from 1995 to 1996 40 tons.
(c) - Reclaimed R- 12 imported in the first half of 1996.
: only rough estimates available
I Halon Stocks and Regeneration
metric tons
Year                 1994         1995          1996         1997          1998           Total
Halon 1211   Stocks, nat t    2,764.0        2,300.0      1,900.0      1,600.00      1,500.00       10,064.00
Regeneration, nat t                0            0          3.6         11.50          9.30          24.40
Regeneration, ODP t                0            0         10.8         34.50         27.90          73.20
Used for Fire                 214.0         150.0        100.0         40.00         20.00         524.00
Extinguishing 
Inefficient                   250.0         250.0        200.0         60.00         35.00         795.00
Management*
Halon 1301   Stocks, nat. t       159.0        130.0        120.0        110.00        100.00
Regeneration, nat t                0            0          1.8          5.80          3.10           10.70
Regeneration, ODP t                0            0         18.0         58.00         31.00         107.00
Used for Fire                    3.2          2.1          1.5          1.00          0.60            8.40
Extinguishing
Inefficient                     25.0          8.0          8.5          9.00          9.40          59.90
Management','
Halon 2402
Regeneration, nat t                0            0            0          0.38          0.25            0.63
Regeneration, ODP t                0            0            0          2.28           1.50           3.78
Halons total
Regeneration, natt                 0            0          5.4         17.70         12.70          35.80
Regeneration, ODP t                0            0         28.8         94.80         60.40         184.00
(a) - Inefficient Management of halon fire extinguisher includes the following three main elements:
* Poor maintenance using non-hermetic maintenance technology,
*  Withdrawal of mobile fire extinguisher appliances from the service due to the effects of the legal limitations on the use
of the halon extinguishers mainly in 1994-96; supposed / non-verified illegal halon export



- 37 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No operation indicators were defined in the project document
Table 7: Studies and Workshops Included in Project
Studies Included in the Project
Implementing Agency   Purpose of the Study as defined   Status                 Impact of study
Ministry for         Country Program for the Phaseout Implemented    Phaseout Strategy was defined. Investment
Environment and      of ODS in Hungary (not GEF                     sub-projects were defined for GEF
Environmental        financed)                                     submission
Management Institute
Fire Protection      Halon regeneration strategy (not  Implemented  Halon regeneration strategy for the halon
Association          GEF financed)                                  sub-project was defined, sub-project
documents prepared for Bank submission,
MMG Automatics Co.  Environmental Effect Studies    Implemented    Based on the results of this study the
Ltd.                                                                operation licenses were issued by the
relevant authorities
METISOL ltd.         Environmental Effect Study     Implemented    The study supported the issuance of
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _   ________ _  permissions for operation.
Dewpoint Consultants, Technical Evaluation of ODS   Implemented     Technical evaluation and preparation of
|UK                   Phaseout Project              l               ICR.
Organizer/ Sub-project      Workshop and Training Activities            Date               Venue
Organized by the Bank and  Project Implementation Seminar (Regional)  January 16-20, 1995    Budapest, Hungary
NBH
Organized by the MOE and  Regional Workshop on Implementation of  October 22-23, 1996    Kostelec and Orlici,
PMU of the Czech Republic ODS Phaseout Project                                          Czech Republic
Organized by the MOE and Regional Workshop on Recovery, Reclamnation May 26-28, 1997    Budapest, Hungary
PIU of Hungary           and Recycling of ODS Refrigerants and
Halons
Organized by the PIU of    Regional Workshop on Altenatives for Ozone October 27 - 30 1997   Ribno, Slovenia
Slovenia related to Sub-    Depleting Substances in the Solvent Sector
projects 9-14.
Organized by the MOE and Regional Workshop on Good Practices and    March 4 - 6., 1998  Prague, Czech
PMU of the Czech Republic Lessons of ODS Phaseout Projects                              Republic
Sub-project 2.,HRACA    ,,Green Courses": Training of Service     1994-1998.            Hungary
Technicians on Closed Cycle Servicing
Technology (more than 3.700 technician)



- 38 -
Table 8. Project Costs and Financing
A.   Project Costs
US Dollars
Appraisal estimate                                                                    Actual
GEF Grant                      Hungarian Contribution
Item              Local costs  Foreign   Total   Financed by Grand Total Local costs Foreign   Total   Local     Foreign    Total     Grand
costs              Hungary                         costs                 Costs    costs                 Total
1. PIU (including     567,000      1,000   568,000    28,000    596,000   372,500    21,500     394,000    46,800         0    46,800   440.800
Financial Agent Fee
and contingency)
2. HRACA              253,000  1,162,000 1,415,000    628,000   2,043,000   262,800 1,099,600    1,362,400   397,100    186,800   583,900  1,946,300
3. Frigolux            170,000   306,000   476,000    97,000    573,000   167,500   274,100     441,600    61,100     12,500    73,600   515,200
4. HAJDU               399,000   600,000   999,000    407,000   1,406,000   276,800   733,900    1,010,700   191,900  29,500   221,400  1,232,100
5. Metalucon           119,000   605,000   724,000    161,000    885,000   369,400   315,600    685,000   159,900       700   160,600   845,600
6. Metisol              37,000   309,000   346,000    95,000    441,000   102,900   236,000     338,900   147,400         0   147,400   486.300
7. Mediroll             52,000     1,000    53,000     5,000     58,000    47,400      400       47,800     5,500         0      5,500    53,300
8. Auto-Mobil           84,000        0    84,000         0      84,000    81,300        0       81,300        0          0         0    81,300
9. MMG-AM               37,000  1,169,000  1,206,000  27,000   1,233,000    37,000  1,110,900    1,147,900   194,900  79,000   273,900  1,421,800
10. Hitelap             10,000   170,000   180,000        0    180,000    17,000   170,100     187,100     7,900      8,600    16,500   203,600
11. Tisza                   0   132,000   132,000     44,000    176,000        0   123,900     1-23,900    2,500     30,900    33,400   157,300
12, F6 Finom.          34,000         0    34,000         0      34,000        0         0           0         0          0         0         0
13. BRG                20,000     2,000    22,000      1,000     23,000        0    11,600       11,600    1,100          0      1,100    12,700
14. Rutitex                 0   340,000   340,000         0    340,000       900   345,400     346,300     9,800          0     9,800   356,100
15. Fire. Prot. Ass.   43,000   278,000   321,000         0    321,000    33,700   286,600     320,300         0          0         0   320,300
Total                1,825,000  5,075,000 6,900,000   1,493,000   8,393,000  1,769,200 4,729,600   6,498,800  1,225,900    348,000  1,573,900  8,072,700



-39 -
B.    Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                         Actual
- (US$ thousand)                      (US$ thousand)
Item                                       Local    Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign        Total
costs       costs                   costs       costs
1. GEF Grant                               1,825.0   5,075.0   6,900.0    1,769.2   4,729.6   6,498.8
2. Counterpart finds (how much              1,465.0           0   1,465.0    1,179.1         348.0    1,527.1
form enterprises,
how much from the Hung Gov.                    28.0            0       28.0        46.8           0        46.8
Total                                      3,318.0   5,075.0   8,393.0   2,995.1    5,077.6    8,072.7
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis ofproject was estimated at appraisal
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Hungary
ODS Phaseout
Grant               Covenant    Present         Original        Revised       Description of      Comments
Agree-   Section       Type        Status    Fulfillment Date   Fulfillment      Covenant
ment                                                             Date
Grant    4.01.      1, 2          C          Yearly                          Accounting and      In compliance
(a),(b),(c)                                                        Auditing Program
Grant    6.01.      8             C          02/27196                        Effectiveness       In compliance
6.02.
6.03.
Covenant types:                                                             Present Status:
I. = Accounts/audits                                                       C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from                          CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                                            CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds                                  NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing
agency
6. = Environmental covenants
7. = Involuntary resettlement
8. = Effectiveness



- 40 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No lack of compliance was observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks     US$         Weeks        US$            Weeks       US$
Preparation to appraisal     0       0           0.2         2.6              26.8      68
Appraisal                   0        0           1.1         0.9               4.9      10.5
Negotiations through Board   12      32          4.7         7.9               4.7       6.3
approval
Supervision                 41.7    73.2         48.7       59.1              44.4       49.5
Completion                   10      10.2
Total                  63.7    115.4       54.7       70.5              80.8      134.3



- 41 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating       Types of
Stage of project cycle   Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.          Develop.  Probles3
Year   Persons  Field                         Status      objectives   robems
Identification            12/93     2        3
Follow-up Identification    01/94    3       2
Preparation               06/94     4        5
Appraisal                 01/95      1       11                        1              1            P
Supervision 4.            11/95     2        4                         2              1            D
Supervision 5.            02/97     2        6                         1              1
Supervision 6.            11/97      1       8                         1              1
Supervision 7.            03/98      1       3                         2              1            D
Supervision 8. &          09/98     2        6                         1              1
Completion
Total                         18      47                         1             1
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
F=Financial Analyst                  I =Minor or No Problems           P=PIU understaffed
E=Environmental Economist            2=Moderate Problems               D=Disbursement behind schedule
N=Engineer                           HS=Highly Satisfactory
T=Technical Specialist               S=Satisfactory
P=Procurment Specialist



- 42 -
Appendix A.
HUNGARY ODS PHASE-OUT PROJECT
GEF 28306
SUPERVISION/COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
SEPTEMBER 9 - OCTOBER 7, 1998
I,  Introduction.
1. A World Bank mission consisting of Krisztina Kiss, Team Leader and Krisztian Komma,
Research Assistant carried out the supervision of the Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-out
Project on September 9, 10, 16, 22,-25 and October 7 1998. The mission visited five sub-
project sites. The mission would like to express its thanks to the representatives of the
Ministry of Environment, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), the National Bank of
Hungary and of the visited production companies for organizing the mission program and for
the cooperative discussions. The list of contacted people is in Attachment 1.
II. Overall Status of the Project
2. Considering the second extension of the closing date of the Project, overall
implementation is according to the revised schedule. The new closing date of the Project is
December 31 1998, before which date all implementation actions and the submittal of related
invoices have to be made. Further disbursements from the grant after the December 31 1998
closing date can only be made for withdrawal applications received at the Bank's Headquarters
by close of business on April 30 1999 in respect of eligible expenditures made before the
closing date, i.e. payments made or payments due for goods, works and services that have been
provided/done prior to the closing date. Proceeds of the grant remaining unwithdrawn after
disbursements have been made in respect of these withdrawal applications will be canceled.
3. Out of the 14 remaining Sub-projects, the implementation of four sub-projects,
Institutional Strengthening, Recovery, Recycling and Reclamation (3R) of refrigerants and
fire extinguisher gases at HRACA, FRIGOLUX and METALUCON and the Fire-Protection
Association Sub-projects still need to be completed. Nine Sub-projects have been completed
as far as investments and ODS phaseout is concerned, eight companies of which have already
submitted the Sub-project Completion Reports. This Aide Memoire in the following deals
only with the not yet completed Sub-projects.
4. By end of September, 1998, including the Special Account (4,246,295 SDR), 91% of the
grant was disbursed, disbursed and committed ratio together was about 96.5%.
Disbursement and commitment data are detailed in the Table of Attachment 2.



- 43 -
5. As for meeting the Project's objective [100%, 1157 tons representing 46% of the country
program (2490 tons)], 92.6% (1060 tons) of the ODP has already been phased-out. Project
implementation is in line with the country program implementation.
6. NBH, and the Hungarian Development Bank as financial intermediaries operate
effectively and in a timely way. The audit report for the 1997 year Project accounts prepared
by the Auditing and Consulting Ltd. was submitted to the Bank together with the audits of
other Projects' accounts. The next audit for Financial Year 1998 is due by June 30, 1999.
7. In line with Schedule 3 of the Grant Agreement only one "no objection" is needed from
the Bank until Project closing for the last tranche of the reimbursement of training costs of
the Green Courses for refrigeration servicemen; and, of course for all direct contracting, if
any.
8. Additional Funds. Eight sub-project companies have submitted request for the need of
additional funds for incremental investment and operational costs. About USD 90,000 is left
for the disbursement of funds for the highest priority eligible expenses to be spent before
Project closing (December 31, 1998) in line with Bank practices and guidelines, prepared in
agreement with the MOE, the PIU and the mission, (as shown in Table 1. of Attachment 3).
Table 2. of Attachment 3. details further eligible expenses in case more funds remain or
Table 1. items would not get realized on time.
III. Sub-projects' Status, Issues, Agreed Next Steps.
Sub-project. 1   Project Implementation Unit, Institutional Strengthening Sub-project.
9. The PIU operates timely and effectively in close, quite continuous cooperation with the
Bank's Regional Office in Hungary. The procurement procedure of the additionally needed
computer hardware and software for the ODS Information System is under way. The
establishment of the ODS monitoring system is still under way, trial operation is planned for
mid October 1998. The ODS Information System will be fully operational by November,
1998.
10. To support the operation of the 3R scheme, after consultation with the Customs Office
the PIU will procure R12 refrigerant identifier equipment for border control, also following
the Slovenian ODS Phase-out Project good practice. Since problems have risen with the
performance of the Consultants, the PIU might contract an independent expert for the
subsequent evaluation of the campaign work, which the mission supports.
Sub-project 2.  Recovery, Reclamation and Recycling (3R) of Refrigerants
Hungarian Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Association (HRACA).
11. HRACA Sub-project implementation after the two closing date extensions is still behind
schedule. 150 pieces of recovery units supplied by EKOTEZ have been procured and
delivered in July, 1998. The distribution of these equipment among refrigeration services,
technicians and entrepreneurs is under way. Some delay occurred in the procurement, since
EKOTEZ' equipment and bottle documentation was incomplete. Demonstration equipment
should be procured for the training centers and specialized secondary schools urgently.
Contracting should take place until end of October so that the delivery, and submittal of the



- 44 -
last related invoice can take place by the project closing (December 31, 1998). Otherwise the
PIU and MOE will need to use this amount of funds for the next priority item under the
project.
12. The subsequent documentation of the training costs of the Green Courses is problematic,
therefore there have been significant delays in reimbursing the training costs.
13. Mrs. Sebestyen, Technical Advisory Group expert visited a large number of services,
who received mobile recovery units, to check the unit's proper use. All equipment was
found in proper use and operation except for 29 pieces of one US made mobile recovery units
(MDI 5115) currently stored at Ozone Kft. in Jaszbereny.  The compressors of this
equipment are defective. HRACA informed the mission that this US supplier had not replied
to several of HRACA's claims and complaints. Spare parts supply has to be resolved to
make those equipment operational. Annual ODS phaseout capacity of the closed cycle
servicing was estimated about 370 t/year (514 appliances are in operation, about 82% of all
(625) procured equipment).
14. The Consultants were contracted by HRACA for the preparation and management of the
Public Awareness Raising Campaign (PARC). The PARC regarding the 3R scheme for
refrigerants and fire extinguisher gases was launched with some delay in May 1998. All
NGOs involved in the campaign, especially Kittenberger Foundation, who prepared the films
for local broadcasting, did committed, good quality work. After the selection of the
Consultant, but before contracting, all parties agreed in the Bank's office that the Consultants
would prepare an Action Plan (who, what, how, by when, control activity, media, NGO,
estimated costs, etc. in a matrix form) of the whole campaign work in order to show
transparently all actions needed for each target group and cost effectiveness of the spending
of the given maximum 27 million HUF. This action plan was submitted to the Bank on
September 2, 1998 still without any cost estimates. All basic material for the campaign was
collected and provided to the Consultants by HRACA, the Bank (including US EPA
campaign materials, the purchase of UNEP films, etc), the PIU, TAG, and the Fire Protection
Association. Dissemination of materials to NGOs was done by the Bank. The Consultants
work needed to be continuously supported with actual work by HRACA, MOE, the PIU, the
TAG, Fire Protection Association and the Bank. The organization of the major event, the
September 16 Ozone Day at the Budapest International Fair was strongly criticized by
NGOs, the Fire Protection Association, the PIU and the Bank, since out of 300 invitees, only
about 100 showed up, at one time there were only 50 participants, half of which were the
project participants anyway, therefore knowledgeable of the problem. In spite of repeated
requests the campaign invoices were submitted with a big delay, finally on October 5, still
without some of the sub-contracts. Upon review of available documents, the "Ozone
Monument" and MRM Kft. invoice amounts are exaggerated compared to the delivered
output. Every single point of the TORs as integral part of the contract must be met fully by
the Consultants. (E.g. paragraphs 25. and 26. among others, have not been yet met.) Last
payments should be made out of the Grant and only upon the submittal of an objective
campaign evaluation, impact assessment report by the Consultants to HRACA and the Fire
Protection Association and upon acceptance by the PIU.
15. This sub-project is expected to be completed by December 15, 1998, including the
submittal of the final Sub-project completion report. The PARC and further training courses
and other investment items for procurement (like further mobile recovery units) will continue



- 45 -
in the funding of the Central Environment Protection Fund after the closing of the Project
(December 31, 1998).
Sub-project 3.  Frigolux Rt.
16. Cyclopenthane basic material purchase is difficult, since the price has gone up and their
need is for a small quantity only. One ton of cyclopenthane would be needed for them which
would cost about USD 4000 for the trial operation of the cyclopenthane foaming machine as
part of incremental operational costs and for Technical Assistance regarding the explosion
safety licensing as detailed in the tables of Attachment 3. The MOE and the PIU support
Frigolux' application and the Bank mission has approved it.
Sub-project 5.  METALUCON Ltd.
17. The HP foaming machine has been procured, their installation is close to completion.
The new foaming frame heating system is already in operation. The installation works had to
be suspended, because the explosion safety authority rejected the request for the operational
license. After negotiations among the representatives of ELASTOGRAN, the supplier,
METALUCON and the safety authority, an agreement was reached that certain machine
parts would need supplementary certification and the supplier would change some devices of
the foaming machine to ensure the explosion safety requirements. The PIU, Mr. Kadar,
technical expert paid a visit to the company site and could inspect the first trial shot of
foaming. The quality certification of the sandwich panels has to be provided by EMI
(Quality Control Institute for the Construction Industry) for the panels produced in the trial
operation. METALUCON get the additional funds for trial production costs and explosion
safety licensing as detailed in the tables of Attachment 3, if enough funds remain.
18. METALUCON phased out 43.3 tons ODS, (95% of the total planned). A draft of the
Sub-project completion report has recently been submitted to the PIU for review. The Sub-
project can fully be completed by November, 1998.
Sub-project 15. Fire-Protection Association (FPA).
19. The Sub-project investment program implementation including altogether 25
procurement packages is close to completion. The halon regenerating equipment has been in
operation for more than a year. A supplementary vacuum pump for removing liquids and
gases from the extinguisher containers was procured based on the approval of the Technical
Advisory Group expert.
20. In spite of that, both the Bank and the PIU suggested that HRACA and the FPA together,
should sign a contract with the Consultants for the preparation and management of the
PARC. HRACA made itself the sole contracting partner without consultation with the Bank
and the PIU. Therefore FPA's control on the quality, dissemination mode, use of media of
the PARC products has become secondary and not sufficient. FPA, like MOE, the PIU and
the Bank sees the poor quality of work, with lack of understanding of and commitment to the
issue that the Consultants provided. The September 16 Ozone Day events were visited by
only two fire protection entities, because of the very poor and late preparation of the
Consultants. The PARC is essential to ensure the halon supply for the central reclamation
plant. Funds as detailed in Attachment 3. will be provided for FPA to finalize the PARC as



- 46 -
necessary regarding ozone protection in general and what target groups can do regarding the
closed system operation of the 3R scheme, with the involvement of NGOs and proper media.
21. The Fire Protection Association phased out the 269.7 tons of ODP (100 % of the
planned). The planned 86.56 tons of ODS phaseout capacity was established. Sub-project
completion, except for the follow on activities of the PARC, is expected by November 1998.
The PARC will continue after the Project closing, under FPA's committed management.
IV. Implementation Completion Report, Recipient's Evaluation of Project
Implementation.
22. All the grant recipient companies will have to prepare and submit their Sub-project
Completion Reports by December 15, 1998 according to the disseminated and discussed
guidelines. The PIU will submit to the Bank the draft Recipient's Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report by February 15, 1999 and the final by March 15, 1999.
Bank Guidelines and Directives for the preparation of the Recipient's Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) have been discussed twice with the PIU. The
Recipient's responsibilities in the preparation of the ICR are indicated in the Bank's
Operational Manual Statement and Good Practices (GP) for ICR Preparation. Copies of all
relevant parts of the Bank Procedures (BP) and GP were given earlier to the Grant Recipient.
As indicated in BP 13.55 and GP 13.55, the Recipient's ICR should include a summary not
exceeding 10 pages, together with the supporting background information and annexes.
23. Project Cost and Financing Plan: to enable a comparison of appraisal and actual project
costs and financing plans, the Recipient should update the relevant tables of Schedule A, B,
C, D and The Summary Table (Summary of Sub-project Data and Costs) of the Project
Document.
24. To enable the Bank to complete the draft of Part I of the ICR, it was agreed that the
recipient would ensure that information in relation to the grant and technical assistance
components indicated in Attachment 4. of this Aide Memoire is sent to the Bank together
with the updated ODS phaseout, project costs and financing tables. The Terms of References
of the Consultants to assist the PIU and the Bank in the technical, project objective
evaluation is in Attachment 5. of this Aide Memoire.
25. Outputs and schedule: to enable the timely submission of the final ICR, including both
the Borrower's and the Bank's parts to the Bank's Board of Directors by June 30, 1999, as
required, it was agreed that the following timetable would be followed: the PIU to send the
Bank by February 15, 1998 the background information on sub-project components, the
updated ODS, project cost and financing tables, the implementation / disbursement schedule,
and the summary table of all technical assistance and consulting components.
26. Coordination of ICR Preparation: the following persons would coordinate the preparation
of the Recipient's and the Bank's preparation of the ICR:
For the Recipient:    Mr. Endre Palos, Head of the Project Implementation Unit
of the Ministry of Environment
For the World Bank:  Krisztina Kiss, Project Team Leader



- 47 -
27. A technical evaluation with the involvement of David Gibson, Technical Expert, will take
place late January, early February, 1999.
28. This Aide Memoire becomes official only upon its approval by Bank Management.
Budapest, October 12, 1998. Krisztina Kiss, Team Leader



-48 -
Appendix B.
GRANT RECIPIENT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
MINISTRY FOR ENVIRONMENT OF THE REPUBLIC HUNGARY
HUNGARY
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTEMENT PROJECT FOT THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF Grant No. 28306
April 1999



- 49 -
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 23, 1999)
Currency Unit   =   Hungarian Forint (HUF)
US$1   =   232.230 HUF
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Hungarian Forint per US$
1994        1995          1996            1997           1998
105.160     125.681       152.647         186.789        217.720
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES-
Metric System
HUNGARY'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CB  -Corvin Bank
CEE  - Central and Eastern Europe
CFC  - Chlorofluorocarbon
CTC  - Carbon Tetrachloride
ElIT  - Economies in Transition
FA  - Financial Agent
FPA  - Fire Protection Association
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
GEF  - Global Environment Facility
GET  - Global Environment Trust
GIS  - Geographic Information System
GOH  - Government of Hungary
HC  - Hydrocarbon
HCFC  - Hydrochlorofluorocarbon
HF  - Hungarian Forint
HFC  - Hydrofluorocarbon
HRACA  - Hungarian Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Enterprises
Association
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
IEM   - Institute for Environmental Management
IOC  - Incremental Operating Costs
IS - International Shopping
LIB  - Local Competitive Bidding
MOE  - Ministry of Environment
MFMP  - Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal
Protocol
MP  - Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone



- 50 -
Layer
NBF - Not Bank-Financed
NBH - National Bank of Hungary
NCB - National Competitive Bidding
NS - National Shopping
ODP - Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS - Ozone Depleting Substances
OORG - Ozone Operations Resource Group
PAA - Project Administration Agreement
PCE - Perchloroethylene
PIM - Project Implementation Manual
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
PU - Polyurethane
SDR - Special Drawing Right
SOE - Statement of Expenditures
STAP - Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
TAG - Technical Advisory Group
TCE  -  1,1,1 -Trichloroethane
UNEP - Untied Nations Environment Program
USD - United Sates Dollar
VOC - Volatile Organic Compounds
3R - Recovery, Reclamation and Recycling



- 51 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................................ 52
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................................                   53
Introduction ........................................................................               53
2. Project Objectives .53
3. Achievement of Objectives .53
4. Project Sustainability and Future Operation .54
5.   Performance of the Participating Enterprises and Institutions .55
6. Implementation Experiences .56
7. Assessment of Outcome / Effects of the Project .59
8. Key Lessons Learned .60
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                ................................ 61
A INTRODUCTION / PROJECT CONTEXT .                                                                  61
B PROJECT OBJECTIVE .63
C ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .63
D DESCRIPTION OF SUB-PROJECTS .65
E  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .73
F PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION .74
*  PERFORMANCE OF PARTICIPATING ENTERPRISES AND INSTITUTIONS .75
H IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES .76
I EFFECTS OF THE PROJECT .78
J LESSONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .7
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ................................................................ 81
Table A: Usage of Ozone Depleting Substances in Hungary in 1992 .           ................................................... 82
Table B: Consumption(a) of Ozone Depleting Substances in 1992 According to UNEP Formats  .. 83
Table C: Trends in ODS Consumption by End User Sectors in Hungary                    .      .         84
Table D: Actual ODS Use ........................................................................    84
Table E: ODS Phaseout / Reference Year Level ........................................................................   85
Table G: Actual Sub-Project Incremental Capital and Operating Cost Data               .      .        87
Table H: Cost Effectiveness of the Hungarian ODS Phaseout Project .         .................................................. 89
Table .: Actual Local and Foreign Project Costs ........................................................................   90
Table   J: Refrigerant  Stocks ........................................................................  91
Table K: Halon Stocks and Regeneration ..........................................                   91
Table L: Project Timetable ......................................... .                              92
Table M: Studies Included in the Project ..........................................                 93
Table N: Workshops and Training Included in the Project          ......................................... 93



- 52 -
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Support
and Investment Project for the Phaseout of ozone Depleting Substances in Hungary, for
which Global Environment Trust Grant Agreement (GET Grant No. 28306) in the
amount SDR 4,700,000 equivalent was signed on November 29, 1995 between the
Republic of Hungary and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
acting as implementing agency of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF). The Grant
Agreement was declared effective on February 28, 1996.
The Grant was closed on December 31, 1998 instead of December 31, 1997 the
original closing date. X percent of the Grant was disbursed and SDR X remained
undisbursed and unutilized. The last disbursement date was X, 1999.
The Recipient Contribution to the ICR was prepared by Mr. Endre Palos, PIU
manager. It was revised by Mr. Laszl6 Dob6, TAG consultant.
Preparation of this ICR began during the World Bank's final supervision and
project completion mission, which took place from September 9-10, 16, 22-29 and
October 2, 1998. It is based on material in the project file and discussion with the
Director of the participating enterprises responsible for sub-project implementation.
Participating enterprises contributed to the ICR by preparing their own sub-projects
completion reports.



- 53 -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
Hungary acceded to the Montreal Protocol in 1989 and adopted the first
measures to eliminate substances that deplete the ozone layer in 1992. In this historical
period its economy entered into the most difficult stage of transformation. Yet it would
still have been a mistake to expect economic prosperity upon organizing the measures
and commencing their execution.
The Ministry for Environment has not only issued the decrees containing the
required legal regulations, but has also organized and devised the Country Program for
the Phaseout of ODS. Certain elements of this Program necessitated substantial
investments, therefore Hungary has applied for and received financial aid from the
Global Environment Facility for the support of phaseout.
2.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objective of the project was to complete the ODS phaseout procedure in
Hungary in compliance with the Montreal Protocol, its amendments and adjustments.
Two main defined objectives were to provide effective financial assistance for the
phaseout of ODS use in the Hungarian industry by introducing new technologies using
no ODS and the extended use of ODS refrigerant and halon stocks of the country by up-
to-date service technologies. The aim of the grants was to increase the general ODS-
phaseout activity in the country and to mobilize own financial means for such purposes.
This way the GEF project objectives included the assistance of the Hungarian Country
Program as a whole. One further important aim was to assist the Ministry for
Environment in organizing, overseeing the ODS phaseout process and in shaping the
legal regulations.
The defined aim of the project was to phaseout 1.157 ODP equivalent tons of
ODS consumption per year related to the base year of 1992 through the implementation
of 13 investment sub-projects, by establishing the national network for the recovery,
regeneration and recycling of refrigerants and through the Institutional Strengthening
necessary for the implementation of the project.
3.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
All objectives of the project were achieved. The use of newly produced (virgin)
ozone depleting CFCs, methyl chloroform (MCF) and halons in Hungary was reduced
to zero. The ODS phaseout process in Hungary proceeded in compliance with the



- 54 -
stipulations of the MP. New production procedures applying no ODSs either as raw
materials or as supplementary materials have been implemented instead of previous
manufacturing technologies using ODS. The Participating Enterprises realized the final
phaseout of their ODS-use through the sub-project investments financed by GEF grant
assistance. The GEF provided the grant basis funding for the investment costs and for
incremental operating costs that the participants would not have incurred had Hungary
not been a party to the MP. The environmentally sound handling of ODS refrigerant
and halon extinguishing gas stocks of the country has been solved by the national level
Recovery, Regeneration and Recycling systems. The legal regulations in Hungary are
harmnonized with all MP amendments and adjustments (Decree No. 22 (1993. VII. 20.)
and Act LVI of 1995 on Product Fees. The national level 3R system is backed up by
obligatory environmental training of service technicians and the adequate Product Fee
Act ensures the necessary economic incentives. The GEF grant provided incentives for
an ODS phaseout as early as possible and this way captured additional environmental
and economic benefits.
3R Component: The main aim of the 3R to establish the nation-wide refrigerant
Recovery, Recycling and Regeneration system has been achieved. During project
implementation, the ratio of the procured recovery-type mobile appliances had been
increased substantially because new types were developed and therefore the demand for
the refrigeration services had expanded for appliances which perform on-site closed
cycle recovery of refrigerants. The central CFC refrigerant regeneration plant operates
smoothly. The 3R system .is now in the start-up phase. The operation of the system
seems to be economically viable.
Investment Component: 12 investment sub-projects were carried out in the
plastic foams, aerosol, solvent and halon sectors. All of them were successfully
implemented and all equipment procured under the project are operated in normal
production and reached the planned production level. All enterprises are satisfied with
the new technologies and the performance of the equipment.
4.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION
The years of operational experiences have proven that the technologies
introduced by the project can be considered viable in economic, financial and technical
respects as well. The selection of non-ODS technologies has been made in compliance
with the recommendations of the World Bank advisors assisting the project preparation.
Each subproject was implemented in respect of the technical content in accordance with
the technical project documents approved by the Ozone Operations Resource Group
(OORG), the World Bank's permanent technical expert group.  The selected
technologies were realized by the procurement of state-of-the-art equipment
manufactured in OECD countries. All equipment procured by GEF grants have been
put into operation and after the trial period are operated and will be operated in the
future in normal production. The enterprises are satisfied with the implemented non-
ODS technologies, there are no plans to change them. The Participating Enterprises
have dismounted or in some instances converted manufacturing technologies using
ODS, therefore the ODS phaseout is final. The future operation of the project is backed
up by the pressure of relevant legal regulations in effect concerning the foreign trade
and use of ODSs.



- 55 -
The economic and financial sustainability of the project is assisted by the fact
that the implemented technologies are of the highest standards. The economic position
and financial circumstances of the enterprises participating in the project, support a
prosperous forecast for sustainability. The Participating Enterprises will remain in
business and the equipment procured under the project will be in use throughout their
operation. The secondary outcome of the implementation of new technologies in the
majority of sub-projects was product development. The higher quality "green" products
developed mean a more solid market position for the enterprises and this way support
the sustainability of the project.
The economic transition of the Hungarian economy necessitated minor changes
during the implementation of the project. Due to the restructuring of the production,
one participant closed the ODS using production line before starting the implementation
of the phaseout. The grant planned for this very small sub-project was reallocated
(USD 30.000). A change in majority ownership was reported by the MMG Works for
Automatic Control Products Co. Ltd.
The environmental sustainability of the project had been ensured at the project
preparation by selecting the "best available", environmentally sustainable
manufacturing technologies using zero ODP materials only. In accordance with the
Project Document, the implemented manufacturing technologies are operated without
any ODS materials, that means without any HCFC use that would later limit the
operation of the new technologies because of the MP restrictions. The non-ODS g"reen
freons" (HFC-134a) and cyclopentane used as foaming agents and refrigerant retrofit
substances, have GHG effect, but are not restricted materials and are considered "best
available" materials.
After the trial start-up phase, the operation of the 3R can be assessed as
economically viable, however the price regulation stipulated by the Product Fee Act
plays an important role in this. The level of the product fee should from time to time be
adjusted in the future in order to maintain its price regulatory effect. The sustainability
of the 3R system is ensured by the national CFC refrigerant stock including now about
3280 t R-12 for many years. The Hungarian 3R System is the first operating system of
this type in the region for the preservation CFC refrigerant stocks.
5.  PERFORMANCE OF THE PARTICIPATING ENTERPRISES AND INSTITUTIONS
The ODS phaseout project turned out to be a success as a result of the effective
co-operative work of the team consisting of the World Bank project management, the
PIU staff and the professionals of the Participating Enterprises. The World Bank has
had a decisive role in initiating the Project as the main part of the Hungarian Country
Program for ODS Phaseout. The World Bank's operational experience assisted the
smooth operations in every phase of the project cycle from preparation through
implementation to the evaluation/closing. This should be stressed specifically for
developing  the  financial  implementation  system   and  the  procurement
procedures/responsibilities.
5.1 Bank Performance
The Bank's performance in each phase of the project cycle reached high
standards.  Allocating project management to the Regional Office in Hungary,



- 56-
substantially facilitated the close co-operation with the World Bank Project Team
Leader.  The Regional Office's procurement expert's assistance was essential to
implement the procurements in compliance with World Bank Guidelines. The initiative
of the Project Team Leader for the regional exchange of project experiences, lessons
learned by organizing ODS Project Workshops, has set into motion a regional level co-
operation in the environmental programs of the countries in the region which carries
great significance for the future.  The activity of the Bank's technical advisors
substantially assisted the preparation, implementation and evaluation/reporting phase of
the project, as well.
The Task Team Leader of the Regional Office of the World Bank in Budapest
has rendered ongoing assistance together with the procurement expert of the Resident
Mission throughout the execution of the project by the Supervision Missions conducted
every six months and by the issuance of all progress approvals required on the basis of
the examination of procurement documents. She has assisted the work of the PIU by
monitoring the implementation status and progress of current tasks of each and every
sub-project.  The World Bank has evaluated project progress and investment
implementation through the Missions conducted at the sub-projects in order to eliminate
hindering effects, define subsequent steps and the assessment and approval of additional
- unplanned - investment proposals.
5.2 Recipient Performance
The MERP, MoF and NBH fulfilled all obligations stemming from the Grant
Agreement during the Project implementation. The MERP actively assisted the PIU to
push through the state administration, all financial/banking business matters of the
Project. The Hungarian Government assured, that the goods procured under the project
by grant financing could be imported totally tax and VAT free.
The PIU operating in the Ministry for Environment acted as the basic
management center of the project ensuring the implementation of the ODS Phaseout
Project in compliance with the Grant Agreement. The main management functions
including organizing, controlling, licensing, technical assistance, information exchange,
administration and overseeing responsibilities have been performed effectively without
any extra institutional organization. The establishment of the PIU within the Ministry
assisted the management of the Project to get back up from higher ministerial levels to
arrange state administration affairs.
The Participating Enterprises have played a fundamental role in the
implementation. The ODS Phaseout Project was the first large-scale environmental
protection investment program  at most of the participants.  Therefore the PIU
management and expert assistance carried particular importance in the project
implementation. The large companies organized project teams for the tasks of the
project preparation, implementation, procurements, etc., which were rather useful.
Small and medium size enterprises needed particularly intensive assistance in fulfilling
the project tasks on the required level. The Participating Enterprises respected the
relevance of the Bank policies, regulations, guidelines and management responsibility
of the Project Team Leader and PIU as well.



- 57 -
All covenants originating from the Grant Agreement were met by the Recipient
and the Bank as well. The project implementation and reporting was efficient.
6.  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES
The implementation of the Project was executed in accordance with the planned
procedures.  The organization, the scope of work systems, responsibilities of
participants were determined during project preparation. All these systems lived up to
the expectations and the high operational effectiveness during the project
implementation. The extremely co-operative work of all participants of the project task
team ensured the successful and high quality implementation of the Hungarian ODS
Phaseout Project.
Time Frame: The first World Bank expert visit had taken place by the end of
1993, the technical project preparation was carried out in 1994-1995. The Grant
Agreement of the Project was signed in November of 1995. The Project Closing Date
originally set forth as December of 1997 was extended two times by six months to
December of 1998 because of the time consuming safety licensing procedure at
FRIGOLUX and METALUCON (cyclopentane foaming technologies) and because of
the delay of the 3R Component due to minor changes in the technical contents of the
Project and the longer contracting procedure and implementation procedure of the
Public Awareness Raising Campaign.
The implementation procedure has been delayed for several special reasons.
First, at the project preparation, the elaboration of the financial implementation
procedure of the Project lasted longer than anticipated and the contracting procedures
also took a very long time. Most of this delay occurred because of the procurement
procedures, which were substantially more time-consuming than planned. This was
caused by the poor training of sub-project staffs. The half-day presentation held by the
Bank staff had not ensured the necessary skills.
An important experience drawn from the Project implementation was that the 3R
component required more time than estimated. This was due to structural changes and
to a certain extent the technical contents of the 3R and the long decision-making
procedure of the Association. An other important cause of the delay of the 3R was the
enormous number of sub-participants: more than 660 appliances were distributed to the
participating services and over 3,500 service technicians were trained for the use of new
ODS phaseout closed cycle service technology. The time needed for organizing and
administering these procedures was substantially underestimated. The third important
cause of the delay was the implementation of the Public Awareness Raising Campaign,
which carried invaluable importance in putting into operation the nation-wide
refrigerant recovery system, but caused time loss because it was implemented after the
procurements and not simultaneously with the investments.
Demonstrative Value and Replicability: All investment projects established high
manufacturing capacities with demonstrative value. All of the implemented ODS-
phaseout manufacturing technologies working well in practice can this way be used as
examples for non-ODS technologies.  The results of technology and product
development will be utilized better if transferred to forthcoming ODS-phaseout projects
in countries which receive financial support either from the GEF or from the



- 58 -
Multilateral Fund. Most Participating Enterprises demonstrated their willingness to
offer technical assistance to foreign enterprises implementing the same type of
investment projects, both in the areas of project preparation and implementation.
Zero ODS PU foaming technologies can be seen as a future phaseout possibility
for Hungarian enterprises not having participated in the Project and operating foaming
technologies using HCFC foaming agents such as HCFC 124. By using high-pressure
machines both the cyclopentane foaming and carbon dioxide foaming technologies were
developed under the project. The transfer of this know-how would assist the future
phaseout of HCFC foaming agents.
The 3R system of Hungary is the first operational refrigerant recovery system in
the region, therefore the demonstrative value of it is indeed extremely high. After the
first full year of operation, the practical experiences will be evaluated and the acquired
technical know-how can be handled as a sample project in the region in the
implementation of refrigerant and halon stock handling projects.
A transferable innovative product of the project was the development of ethylene
oxide gas steriliser aerosols containing no ODS on HFC-134a propellant base.
Regarding the fact that a large number of EO sterilisers are operating in the countries of
the region and the CIS, this development can be adopted in these countries.
Safety: Special safety issues had arisen only at the FRIGOLUX and
METALUCON sub-projects because of the foaming technology using cyclopentane.
During the implementation of this project, the final solution of all safety problems
caused substantial delays. Some parts of the delivered foaming machines did not fulfil
the safety requirements because of the difference of safety requirements in Hungary and
the delivering state. Minor changes in the machine installation also caused difficulties.
These problems were more easily possible to be solved technically, but their impact on
financing caused substantial time delays. The Hungarian safety authorities strictly
checked all the machine parts installed in the safety area. The safety licensing costs
were not planned and were financed from additional unallocated grant funds. All safety
permissions for normal production were issued for the Participating Enterprises.
Rationale for GEF Involvement: In the early 90s, the Hungarian economy
entered into the most difficult stage of transformation. The Participating Enterprises of
the Project would not have been able finance ODS phaseout project investments from
their own resources. State sources as the Central Enviromnental Found were not
capable of ensuring the financing of the ODS phaseout to an appropriate extent.
Financing by borrowing had not been possible because of the high interest rates. Plants
using ODSs would probably have had to be closed down in several instances without
provision of support to the investments required for the Phaseout of ODSs.
Hungary has sought external resources for the implementation of phaseout
projects with extensive investment needs - constituting 15 to 20 % of the total phaseout
of the country and received financial aid from the GEF for phaseout grants. The
Hungarian Government assured, that the goods procured under the project by grant
financing could be imported tax and VAT free (tax exemptions are worth about 1.4
million USD). With a view to the limited state funding capacity available in Hungary,



- 59 -
the grant offered a chance to meet our obligations undertaken in the Montreal Protocol
without having to have the Hungarian economy sustain severe financial burdens. The
ODS phaseout would have been completed later and the 3R system for handling freon
refrigerant stocks could not have been completed without such grants.
Cost Effectiveness: The cost effectiveness data calculated by using the figures
of the base year used in the Project Document are close to the values planned in 1995.
The slightly lower actual cost effectiveness values calculated by the actual production
data were caused by the disadvantageous market conditions due to the economical
transition of the country and by the loss of eastern export markets.  Therefore
underutilization of capacities occurred at a few Participating Enterprises. Last year,
production figures showed improving market conditions and a short-term forecast
indicating growing capacity utilization. The actual cost effectiveness ratio will increase
in the near future due to the upswing of the operation of the nation-wide 3R system, too.
7.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME / EFFECTS OF THE PROJECT
In general, both the performance and implementation of the Project have been of
high standards. Among the outcomes, the most important is that the Phaseout of Ozone
Depleting Substances in Hungary progressed in accord with the stipulations of the MP
and of its amendments, and that the phaseout of about 1,150 tons of ozone-depleting
substances have been accomplished.
Efficacy: The effects of the Project can be evaluated in all phases of the Project
cycle as very significant. In the preparatory phase, the elaboration of the ODS Phaseout
Project and the Country Program were going on simultaneously and Bank advisors
assisted to shape the technical details of the Country Program. Later on, the PIU
established within the MERP acted as the initiator of MP-implementation in the state
administration and on a national level by enhancing information and knowledge
exchange.
The direct impacts of the project include the implementation of significant
technical developments at the Participating Enterprises. High-value, state-of-the-art
types of manufacturing equipment have been procured. The acquisition of new
technologies assisted the Participating Enterprises in overcoming the economic
difficulties arising from the economic transition of the country and in strengthening
their market positions. In some cases, plant/shop closing would probably have been
inevitable without the project. All Participating Enterprises emphasized that without
GEF funding, these investments would have been substantially delayed and thus the
ODS phaseout would have been realized much later.
The efficacy of the project with respect to initiating product development
procedures should be stressed. A number of significant product developments are being
implemented under the Project. The new technologies being introduced allow the
manufacturing of ODS-free product. (HWS tank and sandwich panel PU foam) that are
also marketable in OECD countries.
The 3R System of closed cycle environmental friendly handling of the national
ODS-refrigerant stock was initiated during the project preparation and its shaping was
assisted by Bank experts. The redesigning of the technical contents of the system was



- 60 -
initiated by Czech experiences acquired on the Regional Workshop. The HRACA was
awarded by the US Environmental Protection Agency for its activity in the 3R System.
Both these examples back up project efficacy and its importance.
Among the indirect effects of the project, the training process and the experience
acquired during the project execution are of particular importance. The value of
experiences drawn from the application procedure, the project preparation, planning and
execution may not be quantified, but will demonstrate their impact in the
implementation of future development/environmental projects of the companies.
Another secondary indirect effect of the Project implementation was the strengthening
of certain self-organizing professional associations (HRACA, FPA).
Recommendations: In looking back at the success story of ODS phaseout in
Hungary, it may be concluded that it would have been more rapid and more flawless if
some conditions had been provided for earlier on and in a more advantageous manner
upon its launching. More tangible and human resources should have been allocated at
the MfE and other state administration organizations concerned to an even more
detailed elaboration of the Country Program and the enterprises should have been
involved in the preparations more actively.
In the preparatory phase of the Project cycle, all sub-projects should have been
budgeted more carefully and the cost effects of all necessary activities should have been
examined more carefully.  For example, in the 3R Component subproject, the
considerable administration cost of the equipment distribution have not been calculated
and therefore have only been possible to be financed partly from additional sources
Specific economic incentives - both positive and negative financial incentives -
should have been provided for right from the beginning in the form of making the use of
ODSs more expensive and reducing the burden of introducing new substituting
substances and phaseout technologies. It is also worth mentioning here that more
resources should have been devoted to the development of awareness and consciousness
of the general public and a more convincing campaign should have been organized.
8.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The most important secondary results of the Project are the experiences and
lessons gained during the implementation. The Regional ODS Phaseout Workshops
assisted in leaming from the different experiences of other countries in order to find
more adequate solutions. On examination of the whole project cycle and all project
procedures, the following lessons leamed and suggestions can be concluded:
In the planning of the project, careful examination of all necessary activities is
needed in order to cover all budget items.  The operating cost of more
complicated projects setting a large number of participants in motion (such as
the 3R Component) can be considerably high.  The need for additional
equipment such as wastewater treating devices should be taken into account in
the projects of the solvent sector.
The staff of the Participating Enterprises should be trained during the project
preparation (project implementation and procurement training)
The lack of procurement experience of the Participating Enterprises should be
set off by allocating more procurement tasks to the PIU.



- 61 -
*     There is an optimum /minimum size of procurement packages and sub-projects
which can be economically implemented by the Bank Guidelines.
*     The environmental projects necessitate special PR work. The experiences of the
Hungarian 3R and halon regeneration project show that the Public Awareness
Raising Campaign should be implemented simultaneously with the
procurements. The involvement of a committed PR firm and environmentalist
NGOs is vital for the success of the Campaign.



- 62 -
PART I - PROJ:ECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A INTRODUCTION / PROJECT CONTEXT
In recognition of the dangers represented by the depletion of the ozone layer for
present and future generations, the Hungarian Parliament has ratified the Vienna
Convention and the Montreal Protocol and amendments thereof. The Montreal Protocol
has been integrated into the Hungarian legislation by MT (Council of Ministers) Decree
35/1990 (II. 28.), MERP Decree 22/1993 (VII. 20.) and its amendments have resolved
the implementation of the stipulations of the Protocol and its amendments. This Decree
sets forth the deadlines for the phaseout and banning of each Ozone Depleting
Substance for the consumption sectors and simultaneously sets forth-banning provisions
on setting up new equipment, on manufacturing of products using or containing ozone-
depleting substances. An important part of this Decree is the mandatory prescription of
the application of closed-techn-ology in the repairs and maintenance of refrigeration and
air-conditioning equipment, that is the prescription of attested command of such new
technology for service technicians performing the recovery of ozone-depleting
refrigerants prior to the repairs of refrigeration circuits and such repairs. This Decree
subjects the foreign trade of Ozone Depleting Substances to licensing, prescribes data-
reporting obligation for the consumption and defines penalties (fines and withdrawals of
operating licenses) which may be imposed for violation of such stipulations. The
economic incentives of the phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances have been
implemented by Act LVI of 1995 on Product fees by imposing product fees on
refrigerants and refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment, and by increasing the
resources of the Central Environmental Fund supporting the financing of the phaseout.
Country Program    Hungary had been among the first countries in the region
to adopt practical measures in addition to legislative measures when the MERP devised
the Country Prograrn for the phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) in order to
moderate these threats. The preparatory study of the Country Program was elaborated
by the Danish consulting firm COWIconsult. The Country Program was elaborated by a
Hungarian expert team of the MERP. The Country Program comprises the assessment
of the total ODS consumption in Hungary, the breakdown of consumption by sectors
and the description of factors influencing the consumption of Ozone Depleting
Substances. The Country Program identified technologies primarily applicable in the
replacement under Hungarian circumstances. The Country Program has contained
macro-level estimates regarding the phaseout schedule and the costs of investment and
operation. In addition to the identification of objectives, strategies and framework, the
most important part of the Country Program has been the specification and brief
technical presentation of company phaseout projects constituting the World Bank-GEF
project.  The World Bank has rendered substantial technical assistance in the
compilation of the Country Program and in the clarification of certain issues, e.g.



- 63 -
calculation method of incremental costs in the Company Projects by financing the
expert work of the British W.S. Atkins Consulting.  The World Bank project
represented the most specified chapter of the Country Program.
Phaseout Strategy: The consumption of ODSs dropped by about 45 % as a
result of economic recession and further phaseout of consumption necessitated
significant investments. Phaseouts with specifically lower investment needs have been
financed by companies in more favorable financial positions from their own resources.
They have made up for 35 to 40 % of the phaseout of ODS consumption. The phaseout
of the remaining 15-20 %, of about 1,100 tons ODS per annum needed the
implementation of more extensive Company Investment Projects, which were realized
by the World Bank GEF grant project.
The World Bank GEF Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
was made up of three main components. The organizational and human resources basis
of project execution were ensured by the Strengthening of Institutional Background
Component. The component implementing the recovery, regeneration and
recycling of the refrigerants of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment was co-
financed by the World Bank and the Central Environrmental Fund of Hungary. The
third, investment component of the Project comprised the investment prqjects of 12
industrial companies for the phaseout of ozone-depleting substances. The participating
enterprises were selected by application on the basis of their capacity to implement their
projects, their technological positions, on their special situation within the context of
ODS consumption and their financial viability. Within the framework of these sub-
projects, the companies have procured state-of-the-art equipment for non-ODS
technologies.
All ODS usage mandated by the Montreal Protocol has been phased out under
the Country Program. This way Hungary has fully met its obligations under the MP.
Cost Effectiveness: The cost effectiveness data calculated by figures of the base
year used in the Project Document are close to the values planned in 1995. The slightly
lower cost effectiveness values calculated by the actual production data were caused by
the disastrous market conditions due to the economical transition of the country and by
the loss of eastern export markets. Therefore underutilization of capacities occurred at a
few Participating Enterprises. Last year, the normalization of market conditions was
supported by production figures and short-term forecasts showing growing capacity
utilization. The actual cost effectiveness ratio will increase in the near future due to the
upswing of the operation of the nation-wide 3R system..
Rationale for GEF involvement: In the early 90s, the Hungarian economy
entered into the most difficult stage of transformation. Yet it would still have been a
mistake to expect economic prosperity upon organizing the measures and commencing
their execution. The Ministry for Environment has not only issued the decrees
containing the required legal regulations, but has also organized and with a small group
of dedicated experts, devised the Country Program for the Phaseout of Ozone-Depleting
Substances. The MERP has sought external resources for the implementation of
phaseout projects with extensive investment needs - constituting 15 to 20 % of the total
phaseout of the country and received financial aid from the Global Environment Facility



- 64 -
for the support of phaseout. As a result of that, 13 Hungarian enterprises winning the
application for it have received grants. The Hungarian Government assured that the
goods procured under the project by grant financing could be imported totally tax and
VAT free (tax exemptions are worth about 1.4 million USD)
The Participating Enterprises of the Project would not have been able to finance
project investments from their own resources. Plants / shops using Ozone Depleting
Substances would probably have had to be closed down in several instances without the
provision of support to the investments required for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting
Substances. With a view to the limited state funding possibilities available in Hungary,
the World Bank-GEF grant offered us a chance to meet our obligations undertaken in
the Montreal Protocol without having to have the Hungarian economy sustain severe
financial burdens. The ODS phaseout would have been completed later and the 3R
system could not have been completed without grants.
B PROJECT OBJECTIVE
The objective of the project was to complete the ODS phaseout procedure in
Hungary in compliance with the Montreal Protocol, its amendments and adjustments.
Two main defined objectives were to provide effective financial assistance for the
phaseout of ODS use in the Hungarian industry by introducing new technologies using
no ODS and the extended use of ODS refrigerant and halon stocks of the country by up
to date service technologies. The aim of the grants was to increase the general ODS-
phaseout activity in the country and to mobilize own funds for such purposes. This way
the GEF project objectives included the assistance of the Hungarian Country Program as
a whole. One further important aim was to assist the Ministry for Environment in
organizing, overseeing the ODS phaseout procedure and in shaping the legal
regulations.
The defined aim of the project was to phaseout 1.157 ODP equivalent tons of
ODS consumption per year related to the base year of 1992 through the implementation
of 13 investment sub-projects, by establishing the national network for the recovery,
regeneration and recycling of refrigerants and through the Institutional Strengthening
necessary for the implementation of the project. The GEF grant provided incentives for
an ODS phaseout as early as possible and this way captured additional environmental
and economic benefits.
C ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
All regulatory measures have been adopted by the Hungarian Government in
order to fulfil the requirement of the MP, thus restrictions on the use of specified ODS
materials have been in effect since1993, bans of importing them since 1994 and 1996.
These regulations are in accordance with the Article 2 status of the country. Hungary
ratified the London Amendment of the MP in 1993 and the Copenhagen Amendment in
1994 and modified its national regulations in accordance with the aforementioned
amendments.
All the objectives of the project were achieved. The use of newly produced
(virgin) ozone depleting CFCs, halons and MCF in Hungary was reduced to zero. The



- 65 -
ODS phaseout process in Hungary proceeded in compliance with the regulations of the
Montreal Protocol. New production procedures applying no ODSs either as raw
materials or as supplementary materials have been implemented instead of
manufacturing technologies using ODS. The Participating Enterprises realized the final
phaseout of their CFC-use through the sub-project investments financed by GEF grant
assistance. The GEF provided the grant basis funding for the investment costs and for
incremental operating costs that the participants would not have incurred had Hungary
not been a party to the MP.
The environmentally sound handling of ODS refrigerant and halon extinguishing
gas stocks of the country has been solved by the national level Recovery, Regeneration
and Recycling systems. The ODS legislation was harmonized with all MP amendments
and adjustments (Decree No. 22 (1993. VII. 20.)) and Act LVI of 1995 on Product Fees)
also regulates the handling of CFC refrigerant and halon stocks in the country. This
defines the legal framework of the 3R component and of the halon regeneration sub-
project. The national level 3R system is backed up by obligatory environmental training
and the adequate Product Fee Act ensures the necessary economic incentives. The
operation of the system seems to be economically viable as a result to the price
regulatory effect of the Product Fee Act modified in January of 1999. According to the
latest (1998) estimates, the existing CFC refrigerant stock ensures the feedstock of the
system for many years. The Hungarian 3R system is the first operating system in the
Region for the handling of CFC refrigerant stocks.
Investment Component: 12 investment sub-projects were carried out in the
foaming, aerosol, solvent and halon sectors.  All of them  were successfully
implemented and all equipment procured under the project are operated in normal
production and reached the planned production level. All enterprises are satisfied with
the new technologies and the performance of the equipment.
Monitoring: Hungary was not an ODS producing country, therefore in order to
report ODS use, it only had to monitor ODS consumption. In compliance with the
definitions of the Montreal Protocol, the appropriate monitoring indicators of the ODS
phaseout are the consumption values calculated as import - export quantity amounts for
each year. The reference year for Article 2 countries is 1986. Monitoring indicators for
the ODS phaseout project defined as ODS use before, during and after the Project
broken down by Participating Enterprises (Sub-projects) are shown in Table 5. Most of
the ODS phaseout values calculated from the actual production are close to the planned
figures. A small number of Participating Enterprises are exceptions due to the
aforementioned market losses because of the transition of the economy and the political
changes in major eastern export markets. The monitoring concluded that the ODS
phaseout procedure was in full compliance with the regulations of the Montreal Protocol
and the ODS consumption reduction was carried out as scheduled.
Innovation: Most of the sub-projects were of an innovative nature because of
the introduction of new up-to-date technologies not used in Hungary before. The high-
pressure PU foaming technology introduced in four sub-projects, needed the
development of new manufacturing technologies after putting into operation the HP PU
foaming machines procured under the project. The main parameters of the new
production technology were set in the trial operation phase.  The costs of this
development were split between the World Bank grant and the own resources of



- 66 -
Participating Enterprises. The innovative development was crucial in the solvent sector
phaseout subprojects, because of the nature of water-based cleaning technologies.
Simultaneously with the selection of cleaning agents, the development of the
wastewater treatment technology has become urgent.  The development of the
wastewater treatment technology had to be solved in two sub-projects through the use of
additional grants from unallocated project funds.
The strengthening of innovation in the product development was an important
additional benefit of the project. New manufacturing technologies resulted in improved
products. The development work was completed in most cases, e.g. the manufacturing
of simple products such as sandwich panels, during trial operations.. The most
sophisticated product development was carried out at HAJDU works by designing new
(rectangular) HWS tanks. The computer-aided design development work aimed at
producing the same energy-efficient HWS tanks with non-ODS PU foams having
somewhat higher thermal conductivity properties, i.e. poorer thermal insulating quality.
The new product will strengthen the market position of the company. The ODS-free
small size HWS tanks of HAJDU were permitted to use the Green Label indicating the
environmentally friendly nature of these products. The costs of the qualification
procedure were retroactively financed by GEF grant.
The development of a new non-ODS EO sterilizing aerosol was the aim of the
Mediroll sub-project. The development work was successful, the new HFC 134a-EO
aerosol is in every day use in hospitals. The substantially higher price of the new
product caused problems because of the strict budgets of hospitals. Later on, successful
marketing efforts opened new eastern export markets for the product developed.
The GEF grant provided incentives for an ODS phaseout as early as possible and
this way captured additional environmental and economic benefits.
D    DESCRIPTION OF SUB-PROJECTS
Component I - Institutional Strengthening
Sub-Project 1: Ozone Project Implementation Unit
The Ozone Project Implementation Unit has been set up in the Ministry for
Environment (MfE) linked to the Department for Integrated Pollution Control. The PIU
was responsible for carrying out the organizational, controlling, technical, financial and
administrative activities to be resolved centrally throughout the preparation,
implementation and finalization of the Ozone Project. The project-arranging and
project-executing responsibilities of the Ministry for Environment were shared with the
PIU in a well-defined system.
The Technical Advisory Group set up within the Ozone PIU with seven
members assisted the Participating Enterprises in resolving the technical issues incurred
in the course of project implementation. Another important function of the Techlnical
Advisory Group has been the on-site inspection of investments already implemented.
The establishment of the computerized information system of Ozone Depleting
Substances Ozone has constituted an important part. The purpose of the ODS-INFO



- 67 -
system is to fulfil information technology (IT) tasks following from MERP Decree
22/1993 (VII. 20.) resolving the implementation of the MP. The system provides the
receiving and processing of data on ODS consumption and foreign trade.
Component II - Recovery, Reclaiming and Recycling of Ozone Depleting
Refrigerants in Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Equipment
Sub-Project 2: The establishment of a national network to remove ODSs from
refrigerators and to collect and regenerate them through the provision of the new
technology and training of refrigeration technicians.
Project Objective: The objective of this sub-project was to reduce the quantity
of ozone-depleting refrigerants emitted into the atmosphere during the repairs and
maintenance of household, commercial and industrial refrigeration and air-conditioning
equipment by spreading a closed-system service technology. The refrigerants removed
from refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment in the course of repairs and
maintenance by recovery devices are collected in a closed system in a special gas tank,
then are cleaned by filtering on the spot or transported to a central regeneration site.
Refrigerants treated on the spot are refilled into the equipment after the repairs and
maintenance.
The function of the system was assisted by sophisticated legal regulations. The
training was obligatory for licensing the maintenance activity of service technicians
(Decree No. 22/1993 (VII. 20)). The economic incentives of the operation of the
system was ensured by the Product Fee Act. The product fee was in 1995 200 HUF/kg
CFC, this was increased as of January of 1999.
Project Description / Implementation. During the implementation, the ratio of
the recovery-type equipment has increased substantially because new types were
developed and therefore the service demand for such appliances increased. The
following types of closed cycle equipment have been procured. The Thermaflo Ozone
Saver 3000 type equipment capable of recovering 34 kg of refrigerant vapor per hour,
the Pinnacle 5115 type equipment with a nominal recovery capacity of 19 kg per hour.
The EKOTEZ Micro-R small-size equipment is characterized by a recovery
performance of 6 kg per hour. The HRACA has purchased 325 units from the high-
performance Thermaflo equipment and the Cyclepac 3090 refrigerant filtering-cleaning
accessory and 150 units of the Pinnacle 5115 and the EKOTEZ Micro-R equipment
each. Additional 40 pieces of PROMAX RG 5000 type mobile equipment were
procured through the co-financing of the Central Environmental Fund of Hungary. The
central regeneration equipment was purchased from the British Refrigerant Products and
has an R-12 refrigerant regeneration capacity of 80 tons per year in one shift/day
operation.
The special training called Green Courses was a central part of this sub-project.
The relevant MERP Decree 22/1993 (VII. 20.) pres cribes for refrigeration and air-
conditioning service technicians the completion of a so-called supplementary
environmental training course and the obtaining of a so-called "Green Card" attesting



- 68 -
the passing of the subsequent examination. Over 3,500 refrigerator service technicians
have participated in this training course and obtained Green Cards since 1994.
Public Awareness Raising Campaign: The establishment of the operation of a
nation-wide system of closed-system maintenance and refrigerants recovery-recycling
required the orientation of the attention of the public to the problem of the depletion of
the ozone-layer and the communication of necessary information on the possibility of
closed-system repairs to the appropriate target groups (housewives, service technicians,
trade, etc.). A PR firmn with an international background had been commissioned in the
closing stage of the project with the* management of a large-scale campaign raising
public awareness in order to implement these objectives. The main lessons of the
PARC were that it should have been started at the time of the project implementation
and would have been more efficient with the involvement of more commnitted NGOs in
the organisatory works.
Achievement of Objectives: The Association had issued the refrigerant-recovery
equipment to applicant refrigeration and air-conditioning service technology
entrepreneurs and to repairs and maintenance enterprises following their procurement.
About 660 portable refrigerant-recovery equipment had been issued within the
framework of this Project. The Sub-project was implemented successfully. As a result
of the implementation of this sub-project, the technical conditions and h1uman resources
of closed-system refrigeration and air-conditioning repairs and maintenance have been
established in Hungary. However, the upswing of the national refrigerant recovery
system already in progress will certainly take longer.
Component III - Industrial Investment Sub-Projects
Sub-Project 3: Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances in the manufacturing of
Refrigerators and Freezers at FRIGOLUX Co. Ltd.
The main products of FRIGOLUX are retail trade refrigeration and freezer,
showcase, and ice-cream machines. Ozone Depleting Substances had been used for two
purposes in the manufacturing technology, for filling the refrigeration circuits and for
PU foaming of the thermal insulation.
The ozone-depleting freons used in the refrigeration circuits were managed to be
replaced by redesigning the equipment and by incorporating new types of compressors
through the use of refrigerant R-134a. The firm decided to choose foam production
with cyclopentane as foaming agent when selecting the new manufacturing technology
of the polyurethane foam insulation. A high-pressure foaming machine has been
procured by the IS procedure. Due to the inherent danger of explosion of foam
production with cyclopentane, a significant amount of investrnent for safety technology
purposes had to be implemented in the foam production workshop.
The safety licensing of this technology demanded a longer period of time than
previously planned, since the manufacturer had not delivered certain components of the
foaming machine in explosion-proof design and due to minor changes in the
installation. The successful completion of the trial run has proven that polyurethane
foams of appropriate structure can be produced with this manufacturing technology.
The ozone-depleting substance consumption of FRIGOLUX Co. Ltd. has been



- 69 -
completely eliminated through the successful completion of this sub-project, that is a
total of 15.6 tons of ozone-depleting substance consumption have been fully eliminated.
Sub-Project 4: Processing of CFC-Il-free polyurethane foams for insulation of
hot-water storage tanks at HAJDU Hajdzusdgi Iparmzlvek Co. Ltd.
Hajdudsagi Iparmuivek Company is one of the largest manufacturers of household
appliances in Hungary and consumed 63 tons of ozone depleting CFC-1 1 foaming agent
for the manufacturing of the polyurethane foam insulation of hot-water storage (HWS)
tanks in the year 1993.
The major component of this sub-project was the investment in the high-pressure
foaming machine. Hajdusagi Iparmiuvek Company has chosen the foaming process
using CO2 propellant with modified poliol-isocyanate. Consequently, the sub-project
comprised technological experiments, heat-loss tests and the testing of products
manufactured with the new type of foam. The new foam with lower insulation capacity
necessitated the development and launching of the production of hot-water storage-
tanks with a new design. A work-piece pre-heating automatic conveyor system was
required for this new manufacturing technology. With a view to the higher raw material
consumption of the new foaming technology than that of the one before, the phaseout of
ozone-depleting substances entailed significant incremental costs at Hajduisagi
Iparmuivek Company, this had been funded by grants for a certain period of time.
Every equipment of this sub-project joined the day-to-day production upon the
investment in the foam component supply system in September of 1998. The 63 tons of
CFC-11 consumption of 1993 has been fully replaced at Hajduisagi Iparmuivek
Company through putting into operation the new manufacturing technology based on
CO2 propellant poliol-isocyanate PU foaming.
Sub-Project 5: Phaseout of ozone-depleting freon CFC-11 in sandwich panel
production at METAL UCON Ltd.
METALUCON has been producing polyurethane sandwich panels for over 25
years. Production had been based on polyurethane foam production with CFC-l 
foaming agent before. This procedure was replaced in two phases with a state-of-the-art
technology using no ODS at all. First, transition to foam production with CFC-141b as
a foaming agent took place, then PUR foam production with cyclopentane was
introduced. The main part of the investment program was made up of the procurement
of a high-pressure foam machine, the implementation of the controlled heating of the
foaming frames and the development of safety equipment. The strict safety technology
licensing - similarly to the experiences of the sub-project of FRIGOLUX - had here
again necessitated the replacement of certain components (valves, electric motors) of
the foaming machine by explosion-proof components. Mandatory certification by the
Construction Quality Inspection Innovation Co. Ltd. (EMI) of the products produced
with this new technology has also been funded from additional grants.
The manufacturing technology using no ODS has become operational, thus the
consumption of 45.6 tons of ODS in the base year has been fully eliminated at
METALUCON Ltd.



- 70 -
Sub-Project 6: Phaseout of freon CFC-11 in sandwich panel production at
METISOL Ltd
The major products of METISOL Ltd. are rigid polyurethane sandwich panels,
with an annual production capacity of about 80,000 sqm. per annum. The project
objective was to fully replace the 80 tons of CFC- 11 consumption per annum previously
applied as a foaming agent. METISOL Ltd. decided to convert to carbon-dioxide
foaming. The key component of the sub-project was the procurement of a high-pressure
foaming machine. The controlled frame heating system was established. METISOL
Ltd. has implemented the investment of the foam component storage and supply system
from support within the framework of the project as additional investment.
METISOL has also eliminated its consumption of ozone-depleting freon in two
phases. In the first phase, they converted from the application of CFC-1 1 foaming agent
to foaming with HCFC-141b from the first half of 1997 after the procurement of the
hiigh-pressure foaming machine and the implementation of frame heating. In the second
phase, all technical conditions of the application of HFC-134a and/or carbon dioxide
foam production instead of HCFC-141b foaming agent will be established from early
1999.  METISOL has thereafter fully replaced its ozone-depleting substance
consumption of 80 tons in the base year.
Sub-Project 7. Phaseout of CFC propellant in gas-steriliser cartridge
production using ethylene oxide at MEDIROLL Ltd.
The purpose of the sub-project developed was to allow the substitution of
previous ozone depleting CFC-12 propellants with effective, non-ozone-depleting
propellants in the production of EO gas sterilizing aerosol cartridges. The project has
carried great importance for the majority of Hungarian hospitals using such gas-
sterilisers in the sterilization of plastic medical appliances not being resistant to high
temperatures.
In the first part of this sub-project, MEDIROLL Ltd. conducted experiments
with HCFC-124 propellant. After the completion of the development work the
ethylene-oxide gas-sterilizing compound using HCFC-124 propellant had then received
temporary official licenses for the distribution of the new compound. At the end of
1996, several hospitals indicated that they had observed the forming of oil-film on the
surface of certain plastic tools after the completion of the sterilization when applying
the new ethylene-oxide gas mixture. Due to this, the distribution license of the
compound has been withdrawn.
Therefore in the second phase the aim was to develop ethylene oxide mixtures
containing gas HFC-134a with lower solvent potential. This type of ETOMIX-21 and
100 gas-sterilizing mixtures using HFC-134a propellant ethylene oxide had been
granted the official licenses required for their application and distribution. The new
compound has continuously been produced since its licensing. This way the 107 tons of
CFC-12 consumption in the base years was managed to be replaced with a mixture
using a zero ODP propellant.
'Sub-Project 8: Phaseout of CFC-12 and 1,1,1-trichloroethane solvents and
propellants at Auto-Mobil Chemical Ltd.



- 71 -
Auto-Mobil Chemical Ltd. produces chemical aerosols. The firm fills about 2
million aerosol cans per annum. Auto-Mobil decided to implement two solutions with a
view to the phaseout of ODSs. Propane-butane propellant had been introduced in a
group of aerosol products. However, compressed air or nitrogen had also been applied
as a propellant in the production of certain products by using a Hungarian patent.
From the two technologies, only the filling with propane-butane propellant
required investments. Propellant containers previously used for freon storage had to be
converted for storage of PB gas. The storage and filling site had to be reconstructed and
ventilation through an upper and lower suction system had to be provided for in
compliance with the specifications of the fire-department. In case of the manufacturing
technology using compressed air, the costs of operation have increased significantly for
having to use containers designed for higher pressures - with thicker walls and new type
of valves - than before.
Following the implementation of this sub-project, the use of CFC-1 1 and 12, and
of trichloroethane has been fully eliminated at Auto Mobil Chemical Ltd.
Sub-Project 9: Modification of cleaning technology of automatic and electronic
parts of oil and gas pipelines, substituting for CFC and 1,1,] -trichloroethane solvents
with water based solution at MMG-AMLtd.
MMG-AM Co. Ltd. is the largest manufacturer of control and automation
devices and components in Hungary and operates with a significant manufacturing
capacity. The company has four large plant sites. The objective of the MMG-AM sub-
project entailing the second highest amount of support was to phaseout 87 tons of 1,1,1-
trichloroethane and of 3.5 tons of CFC 113 per annum used in the cleaning and
degreasing of parts by conversion to a washing technology using water-based solution.
The main investments of the sub-project were the procurement of two ultrasonic,
multi-chamber ROLL RET degreasing machine, two TAUSS CBR water-based parts
cleaning equipment and one large-size MAB water-jet cleaning equipment. Two Marin
Roll cleaning equipment using CFC were converted using water solutions. In case of all
the procured water-based washing equipment, recirculation type water-based rinsing
systems are operated in order to minimize the amount of wastewater emitted. Two
TAUSS type wastewater treating equipment were additionally procured through grant
financing.
MMG-AM Co. Ltd. ensured the successful implementation of this sub-project
through about 300,000 USD worth of own funds. As a result of this sub-project, the
consumption of Ozone Depleting Substances has been fully eliminated at MMG-AM
Co. Ltd., at the same time, high-performance, state-of-the-art parts cleaning
technologies have been implemented.
Sub-Project 10: Phaseout of 1,],1-trichloroethane photoresistant developer
with alkalic solution in the manufacturing of printed circuit boards at HITELAP Co.
Ltd.
HITELAP Co. Ltd. manufactures small and medium-size series of printed circuit
boards for professional electronics firms. The manufacturing technology of printed



- 72 -
circuit boards had previously been based on solid photoresistants being developed in
1,1 ,1 -trichloroethane solvent and on washing with methylene chloride.
The major part of the project was the procurement of alkalic (using water-based
solvent) developer and washer equipment. HITELAP purchased this equipment from
the IS-ITC Intercircuit firm in early 1996. In the second stage of this sub-project,
HITELAP Co. Ltd. has resolved the wastewater treatment problem arising from the new
production technology. It was not foreseeable at the time of the planning of the project
that the existing equipment would not be suitable for the treatment of wastewater arising
from the new technology therefore the new wastewater treatment equipment was partly
financed from additional grants.
Through the conversion to the water-based technology, the consumption of
Ozone Depleting Substances - that was 32 tons in the base year, which would however
exceed 50 tons per annum by now with a view to current production levels - has been
fully eliminated.
Sub-Project 1]: Conversion from release agent solvent containing CFC-II to
solvent free release agent substance and from consumption of], 1, I -trichloroethane to
water based cleaning in polyurethane sole producing at Tisza Shoe Sole Company
Tisza Shoe Company has a production capacity for 700 thousand polyurethane
soles per annum. The objective of this sub-project was to eliminate the consumption of
release agents containing 3.7 tons of CFC- 11 solvents and 3.1 tons of trichloroethane
solvents, and 16.78 tons of trichloroethane washing liquid through the application of
new release agents, the procurement of necessary new release-spray devices, and the
installation of a water-solution sole washing equipment.
The new type of release agent introduced is made up of a mixture of waxes and
silicon oils. The existing equipment had not been suitable for the proper feed and
distribution of this new agent, therefore the firm procured new spray nozzle and
homogenizing equipment. A new water-solution sole washing device was installed in
place of the sole washing device using 1,1,1 -trichloroethane solvent vapors.
In the course of the trial run of the new washing device, upon obtaining the
permission of the environmental authority the difficulty of the decomposition of
wastewater to be disposed of at certain intervals had to be solved. The technical expert
of the PIU-TAG had examined whether waste-water treatment could have been resolved
in any other manner and had suggested that Tisza Shoe Company use the spare capacity
of an existing waste-water treatment plant in its v-icinity for the treatrnent of the waste-
water of the sole washing plant. By completing this sub-project, Tisza Shoe Company
has fully eliminated its ozone-depleting substance consumption.
Sub-project 12: Conversion from open system vapor phase washing with CFC-
113 to closed system washing with perchloroethylene at Fiv6rosi Finommechanikai
Ltd.
This small sub-project was deleted because production had ceased at the
Participating Enterprise. The planned total grant amount of 33,700 was used by other
sub-projects for additional funding.



- 73 -
Sub-Project 13: Conversion to soldering with residue free flux soldering tin
instead of cleaning with freon after soldering at BRG Radiotechnology Company
BRG Telcorad Co. Ltd. manufactures telecommunications equipment ensuring
radio connections. The washing of boards with CFC- 113 after soldering to remove
residual flux substance, constituted part of the manufacturing technology. Available
state-of-the-art soldering technologies, soldering substances make washing after
soldering unnecessary. The firm decided to introduce the application of MULTICORE
- MULTIPURE soldering tin products proven abroad. The price of these soldering
substances is substantially higher than that of the previous ones. The costs incurred
were funded from grants. Washing with freon has been completely eliminated and the
washing equipment using freon has been dismounted.
Sub-Project 14: Conversion from ozone depleting CFC-1 13 solvent to
perchloroethylene in fabrics cleaning at RUTITEX Co. Ltd.
RUTITEX Co. Ltd. runs a number of laundries and has its own dry-cleaning
plant. Approximately 50,000 kg of the about 500,000 kg of clothes they cleaned per
annum had previously been cleaned through washing with freon. The professionals of
the firm decided to introduce the perchloroethylene cleaning procedure. The key
investment part of the implementation of this sub-project was the procurement of four
pieces of high-performance cleaning equipment.
The state-of-the-art cleaning machines using perchloroethylene being purchased,
recover the solvent from the fabrics cleaned in a hermetic circular process with a total
loss of solvent in the magnitude of 0.1 %. The majority of loss of solvents are released
into the atmosphere upon removal of the perchlorine sludge. In order to avoid this
emission RUTITEX Co. Ltd. had requested to procure such environmental accessory
equipment for the new machines as an additional investment. RUTITEX has sorted out
its cleaning machines using freon and has not been using freon solvents since the
putting of the four new machines into operation.
Sub-Project 15:   Regeneration  and closed system  recovery of halon
extinguishing gases at the member companies of the Fire-Protection Association
The main activity of the member companies of the Fire-Protection Association,
FAJRO Ltd. and ELZETT Safety Technology Co. Ltd. involves the maintenance, repair
and manufacturing of built-in automatic, special-purpose and manual fire extinguishers.
In 1994, 2,900 tons of halon were stocked in fire-extinguishing devices in
Hungary. The aim of this sub-project had become the preservation of the halon stock
for the longest period of time possible. The implementation of a state-of-the-art halon-
regeneration technology had been set as the objective. This comprised the recovery of
the halon contents of fire-extinguishing devices taken in for maintenance in a-
herrnetically closed system with almost no loss, and the regeneration of recovered halon
and refilling of regenerated and quality attested halon into the devices.
The central halon-regenerating plant has a capacity of 120 kg/hour and a
guaranteed level of loss below 2%. The gas chromatograph being installed ensures the



- 74 -
analysis of both incoming and regenerated halon. The technical circumstances of
closed-system maintenance have also been established for manual fire extinguishers.
Halon from incoming devices is recovered into 1-ton containers in a hermetically closed
system. Containers are transported to the central regenerating facility of FAJRO Ltd.,
where halon is regenerated and the halon - offering a quality identical to that of newly
produced gases - is refilled into the fire-extinguishers maintained.
The attention of the general and the professional public was drawn in 1998
through an extensive campaign for raising public awareness to the environment-friendly
treatment of fire-extinguishers using halon already being resolved in Hungary. The
campaign for raising public awareness has been pursued simultaneously with the 3R
Component. This has resulted in the difficulties of co-operation mentioned above and
has also had a negative impact on the effectiveness of the campaign. The utilization of
the halon regenerating capacity is lower than planned, but the operation of the
regenerating shop is economically viable and as a result of the PR Campaign,
production will increase in the near future.
E PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
Project preparation started in November of 1993. The legal framework of the
financial implementation of the project included contracts between MERP, MoF, NBH,
State Treasury, Fl bank and Grant Subcontracts of the Participating Enterprises.
Contracting required a substantially longer period of time than planned due to changes
in the legal regulations concerning state finances.
Difficulties in the implementation procedure were caused by the practical
application of the Bank Guidelines to the procurements. The procurement experts of the
Project Implementation Unit had to re-work the company Requests for Proposals in the
majority of procurement processes. The process of training for and familiarization with
procurement procedures has substantially increased the time required for the processing
of procurement, and had called for significant time expenditure.
As a result of the merger of CORVINBANK Co. Ltd., the role of the Financial
Intermediary Bank has been taken over by the Hungarian Development Bank Co. Ltd.
(MFB) as its legal successor since September of 1997. This has not caused any delays
in the arrangements since MFB has taken over human resources actually participating in
the financial arrangements.
Project implementation becarne substantially slower than planned in the second
half of 1997. Difficulties primarily occurred in the sub-projects converting to foam
production with cyclopentane. The completion of the deliveries were delayed and the
explosion-safety licensing process took much longer than planned since certain
components of high-pressure foaming machines had to be replaced by ones with an
explosion-proof design in line with the specifications of Hungarian Standards differing
from the standards of the delivering country.



- 75 -
The implementation of the 3R Component also went substantially slower than
originally scheduled. We decided that the implementation of a wide-ranging campaign
for raising public awareness was necessary in order to improve the utilization of the
equipment procured under the sub-project for regeneration of refrigerants. This was an
additional action in the Project. We also had to involve the sub-project of the Fire-
Protection Association for the regeneration and closed-system recovery of halon fire-
extinguishing gases, where the degree of utilization of the capacity of equipment
installed had not been sufficient either, because the information of the professional and
the general public on the new, environment-friendly fire-extinguisher maintenance
procedure had not been satisfactory. The selection procedure and the contracting and
implementation of the PAR Campaign needed a longer period of time than estimated.
The above mentioned factors, namely the changes in financial procedures, the
longer period of time required for procurements, the time-consuming solution of safety
issues, and time-demand of the PAR Campaign implementation caused delays in the
project implementation
The 3R Component of the project was backed up by financial incentives. The
product fee should ensure the price regulation of R-12 trading. Because of the
enormous inflation rates in the years 1995-1997, the economic effect of the product fee
has largely diminished. The modification of the product fee levels in January of 1999
re-established the effectiveness of this economic incentive.
F PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION
The years of operational experiences have proven that the technologies
introduced by the project can be considered viable in economic, financial and technical
respects, as well.  The selection of non-ODS technologies have been made in
compliance with the suggestions of the World Bank's advisors assisting the project
preparation. Each subproject was implemented in respect of its technical contents in
accordance with the technical project documents approved by the Ozone Operations
Resource Group (OORG), the World Bank's permanent technical expert group. The
selected technologies were realized through the procurement of state-of-the-art
equipment manufactured in OECD countries. All equipment procured through GEF
grants have been put into operation and after the trial period are operated and will be
operated in the future in normal production.  The Participating Enterprises have
dismounted or in some instances converted manufacturing technologies using ODS,
therefore the ODS phaseout is final. The future operation of the project is backed up by
the pressure of the relevant legal regulations in effect concerning the foreign trade and
use of ODSs.
The economic and financial sustainability of the project is backed up by the fact,
that the implemented technologies are of the highest standards. The economic position
and financial circumstances of the enterprises participating in the project, support a
prosperous forecast on sustainability. The Participating Enterprises will remain in
business and the equipment procured under the project will be in use throughout their
operation. The secondary outcome of the implementation of the new technologies in the
majority of sub-projects was product development. The higher quality "green" products



- 76 -
developed mean a more solid market position for the enterprises and this way support
the sustainability of the project.
The economic transition of the Hungarian economy necessitated minor changes
during the implementation of the project. Due to the restructuring of the production,
one participant closed the production line using ODS before starting the implementation
of the phaseout. The grant planned for this very small sub-project was reallocated
(USD 30.000). A change in majority ownership was reported by MMG Automatic
Works Co. Ltd.
The sustainability of the project in environmental respect had been ensured at
project preparation by selecting the "best available", environmentally sustainable
manufacturing technologies using zero ODP raw materials and supplementary materials
only.  In accordance with the Technical Project Document, the implemented
manufacturing technologies are operated without any ODS materials, that means
without any HCFC use that would later limit the operation of the new technologies
because of the MP restrictions. The non-ODS "green" freons (HFC-134a) and CP used
as foaming agents and refrigerant retrofit substances have GHG effect but are not
restricted materials and are considered "best available" materials. The environmental
risks of the new technologies were minimized by putting into operation adequate
equipments, for example wastewater treatment plants, exhausters, etc.   Each
implemented technology was granted all licenses and permissions of the environmental
and other responsible authorities required for normal production.
The operation of the 3R is economically viable, however the price regulation
stipulated by the Product Fee Act plays an important role in this. The level of the
product fee should from time to time be adjusted in the future in order to maintain its
price regulatory effect. The sustainability of the 3R system is ensured by the national
CFC refrigerant stock including now about 3280 t R-12 for many years.
G PERFORMANCE OF PARTICIPATING ENTERPRISES AND
INSTITUTIONS
The ODS phaseout project turned out to be a success as a result of the effective
co-operative work of the team consisting of the World Bank project management, the
PIU staff and the professionals of the Participating Enterprises. The World Bank has
had a decisive role in initiating the Project as an important part of the Hungarian
Country Program for ODS Phaseout. The World Bank's operational experience assisted
the smooth operations in every phase of the project cycle from preparation through
implementation to the evaluation/closing. This should be stressed for developing the
financial implementation system and the procurement procedures/responsibilities.
Bank Performance: The Bank's performance in each phase of the project cycle
reached high standard. Allocating project management to the Regional Office in
Hungary substantially facilitated the close co-operation with the World Bank Project
Team Leader. The Regional Office's procurement expert's assistance was essential to
implement the procurements in compliance with World Bank Guidelines. The initiative
of the Project Team Leader for the regional exchange of project experiences, lessons
learned was conducted through ODS Project Workshops with regional level co-



- 77 -
operation in the environmental programs of the countries in the region. This carries
great significance for the future.  The Bank's technical advisors assisted in the
preparation, implementation and evaluation/reporting phase of the project as well. The
transfer of up-to-date technical information and practical experiences of other ODS
phaseout projects by Bank advisors was essential for the implementation of the
Hungarian Project. Technical experts assigned by the World Bank have assisted in
answering technical issues and deciding debated matters on several occasions
throughout the project implementation.
The Task Team Leader of the Regional Office of the World Bank in Budapest
has rendered ongoing assistance together with the procurement expert of the Resident
Mission throughout the execution of the project by the Supervision Missions conducted
every six months and by the issuance of all approvals required for the project to
progress on the basis of the examination of procurement documents. She has. assisted
the work of the PIU by monitoring the implementation status and progress of current
tasks of each and every sub-project. The World Bank has evaluated project progress
and investment implementation through the Missions conducted at the sub-projects in
order to eliminate hindering effects, define subsequent steps and the assessment and
approval of additional - unplanned - investment proposals.
The Task Team Leader of the Bank had initiated and organized a series of
regional workshops facilitating project implementation.  The purpose of these
workshops was to offer the opportunity for the management of PlUs of countries
implementing similar Projects for the Phaseout ODS to draw lessons from each other's
experiences. Two workshops were held in Budapest, two in Prague and one in
Slovenia.
Recipient Performance: The MERP, MoF and NBH fulfilled all their
obligations during the Project implementation. The MERP actively assisted the PIU in
pushing through the state administration all financial/banking business matters of the
Project. The Hungarian Government assured, that the goods procured under the project
by grant financing could be imported totally tax and VAT free.
The PIU operating in the Ministry for Environment acted as the basic
management center of the project ensuring the implementation of the ODS Phaseout
Project in compliance with the Grant Agreement of the Project. The main management
functions including organizing, controlling, licensing, technical assistance, information
exchange, administration and overseeing responsibilities have been performed without
any extra institutional organization by effective work. The establishment of the PIU
within the Ministry assisted the management of the Project to get back up from higher
ministerial levels to arrange state administration affairs.
The Participating Enterprises have played a fundamental role in the
implementation. The ODS Phaseout Project was the first large scale environmental
protection investment program  at most of the participants.  Therefore the PIU
management and expert assistance carried particular importance in the project
implementation. The large companies organized project teams for the tasks of the
project preparation, implementation, procurements, etc., which were rather useful.
Small and medium size enterprises needed extremely intensive assistance in fulfilling
the project tasks on the required level. The Participating Enterprises respected the



- 78 -
relevance of the Bank's policies, regulations, guidelines and management responsibility
of the Project Team Leader and PIU..
All covenants originating from the Grant Agreement were met by the Recipient
and the Bank as well. The project implementation and reporting was efficient.
H IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES
The implementation of the Project was in accordance with the planned
procedures.  The organization, the scope of work systems, responsibilities of
participants were determined during the project preparation. All these systems lived up
to the expectations and the high operational effectiveness during the project
implementation. The extremely co-operative work of all participants of the project task
team ensured the successful and high quality implementation of the Hungarian ODS
Phaseout Project.
Time Frame: The first World Bank expert visit had taken place by the end of
1993, the technical project preparation was carried out in 1994-1995. The Grant
Agreement of the Project was signed in November of 1995. The Project Closing Date
originally set forth as December of 1997 was extended two times by six months to
December of 1998 because of the time-consuming safety licensing procedure at
FRIGOLUX and METALUCON (cyclopentane foaming technologies) and because of
the delay of the 3R Component due to minor changes in the technical contents of the
Project and the longer contracting procedure of the Public Awareness Raising
Campaign.
The implementation procedure has been delayed for several special reasons.
First, at the project preparation, the elaboration of the financial implementation
procedure of the Project lasted longer than estimated and the contracting procedures
also took a very long time. Most of this delay occurred because of the procurement
procedures, which were substantially more time-consuming than planned. This was due
to the poor training of the sub-project staffs. The half-day presentation held by the Fl
Bank staff had not ensured the skills required for the use of the Bank's Guidelines.
An important experience drawn from the Project implementation was that the 3R
component required more time than planned. This was due to structural changes and to
a certain extent the technical contents of the 3R (increasing the on-site ratio) and the
long decision-making procedure of the Association. Another important cause of the
delay of the 3R was the enormous number of sub-participants: more than 650 appliances
were distributed to the participating services and over 3,500 service technicians were
trained for the use of new ODS phaseout closed cycle service technology. The time
needed for organizing and administering these procedures was substantially
underestimated. The third important cause was the implementation of the Public
Awareness Raising Campaign, which carried invaluable importance for operating the
nation-wide refrigerant recovery system, but caused time loss because it was
implemented not simultaneously but after the procurements.
Demonstrative Value and Replicability: All investment projects established high
levels of manufacturing capacities with demonstrative value. The new technologies



- 79 -
were set during the trial operations and with a set of shopfloor experiences can be
handled as know-how.  Most of the Participating Enterprises demonstrated their
willingness to offer technical assistance to foreign enterprises implementing the same
type of investment projects, in the areas of both project preparation and implementation.
The 3R system of Hungary is the first operational refrigerant recovery system in the
region, therefore the demonstrative value of it is indeed extremely high. After the first
full year of operation, the practical experiences will be evaluated and the acquired
technical know-how can be handled as a sample project in the region in the
implementation 3R type projects.
A high demonstration value innovation of the project was the development of
ethylene oxide gas steriliser aerosols containing no ODS on HFC-134a propellant base.
Regarding the fact that a large number of EO sterilisers are operating in the region's
countries with transitional economies, it seems to be necessary to adopt this innovation
in the ODS Phaseout Projects of these countries. This seems to be backed up by the
export of this new non-ODS EO aerosol which will reach a considerable quantity in
1999.
Rationale for GEF Involvement: In the early 90s, the Hungarian economy
entered into the most difficult stage of transformation. Yet it would still have been a
mistake to expect economic prosperity upon organizing the ODS phaseout measures and
commencing their execution. The Participating Enterprises of the Project would not
have been able to finance ODS phaseout project investments from their own resources.
State sources such as the Central Environmental Fund were not capable of ensuring the
financing of ODS phaseout to an appropriate extent. Financing by borrowing had not
been possible because of the high interest rates. Plant shops using Ozone Depleting
Substances would probably have had to be closed down in several instances without the
provision of support to the investments required for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting
Substances.
Safety:   Special safety issues had to be solved by FRIGOLUX  and
METALUCON when the establishing CP foaming technologies. A special problem
occurred because of minor changes in the installation of the equipment, that means
machine parts other than planned were installed in the safety area. The second
important reason was the difference between the Hungarian safety regulations and the
regulations in effect in the delivering country. All problems were more easily possible
to solve technically, but the discussions on the financing of the machine part changes
caused considerable delay. The rather rigorous and strict overseeing of the Hungarian
safety authority needed a longer period of time and additional financing.
Cost Effectiveness: The cost effectiveness data calculated by the figures of the
base year used in the Project Document are close to the values planned in 1995. The
slightly lower actual cost effectiveness values calculated by the actual production data
were caused by the disadvantageous market conditions due to the economical transition
of the country and by the loss of eastern export markets. Therefore underutilisation of
capacities occurred at a few Participating Enterprises. Last year, the normalization of
market conditions were supported by production figures and short-term forecasts
showing growing capacity utilization. The actual cost effectiveness ratio will increase
in the near future due to the upswing of the operation of the national level 3R system
too.



- 80 -
I   EFFECTS OF THE PROJECT
In general, both the performance and implementation of the Project have been of
high standards. Both direct and indirect impacts of the Project were significant. Among
its direct impacts the most important is that the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting
Substances in Hungary progressed in compliance with the stipulations of the Montreal
Protocol and of its amendments and the phaseout of about 1,150 tons of ozone-depleting
substances have been accomplished. It may be concluded that Hungary has actively
contributed to the implementation of the Montreal Protocol, to the rapid reduction of the
use and foreign trade of ODSs, and to the time-proportionate fulfillment of their
complete elimination. It may be declared that we have played a part in these measures
being regarded as the most successful global environmental action in the world up to the
present, which may serve as an example for solving other global environmental
problems.
The direct impacts of the project include the implementation of significant
technical developments at the Participating Enterprises. High-value, state-of-the-art
types of manufacturing equipment have been procured by the grants totaling to
5,250,000.00 USD. The acquisition of new technologies assisted the enterprises in
overcoming the economic difficulties arising from the economic transition of the
country. All Participating Enterprises emphasized that without GEF founding these
investments would have been substantially delayed and thus the ODS phaseout would
have been realized much later.
A rather important direct impact of the project was the significant product
development. The new technologies introduced allow the manufacturing of ODS-free
products (HWS tank and PUR foam sandwich panel) that are also acceptable in OECD
countries in an environmental respect.
Among the indirect impacts of the project, the training process and the
experience acquired during project execution are the most important. The value of
experiences drawn from the application procedure, project preparation, planning and
execution, may not be quantified, but will demonstrate their impact in the
implementation of future development/environmental projects of the companies. A
noticeable indirect result of the project is the practice in the Bank procurement
procedures gained by the Participating Enterprises. Only the large companies had prior
experience in this, the professionals of the majority of Participating Enterprises have
had no practice in the Bank's procurement techniques ensuring the cost optimization of
investments and the efficient utilization of funds before.
A secondary indirect result of the Project implementation is the strengthening of
certain professional / non-governmental organizations. The operation of the national
system of refrigerant regeneration was only possible by organizing and strengthening
the Hungarian Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Association.
The PIU has acquired a significant amount of useful project controlling and
organizing expertise in the areas of project preparation and implementation.



- 81 -
Experiences, lessons learned from project implementation may also be used in other
similar environmental projects.
J LESSONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
In looking back on the success story of ODS phaseout in Hungary, it may be
concluded that it would have been more rapid and more flawless if some conditions had
been provided for earlier on and in a more advantageous manner upon its launching.
From the present point-of-view, more tangible and human resources should have been
allocated at the MERP and other state administration organizations concerned to an
even more detailed elaboration of the Country Program and the enterprises should have
been involved in the preparations to a deeper extent. Specific economic incentives -
both positive and negative financial incentives - should have been provided for right
from the beginning in the form of making the further consumption of ODSs more
expensive and reducing the burden of introducing new substituting substances and
phaseout technologies. It is also worth mentioning here that more resources should
have been devoted to the development of awareness and consciousness of the general
public and a more convincing campaign should have been organized.
The most important secondary result of the Project are the experiences and
lessons gained during the implementation. The Regional ODS Phaseout Workshops
assisted in learning from the different experiences of other countries in order to find
more adequate solutions. On examination of the whole project cycle and all project
procedures, the following suggestions can be concluded:
D     All activities of the implementation and budget items should be carefully
planned during the preparation of the project. Projects involving a large number
of participants as in the case of 3R can have enornous administrative costs.
Plant-level planning involving the environmental accessory equipment is also
required. In the solvent sector, projects have to solve wastewater treatment.
*     The lack of procurement experience of the Participating Enterprises should be
set off by allocating more procurement tasks to the PIU.
The staff of the Participating Enterprises should be trained during project
preparation (project implementation and procurement training)
There is an optimum /minimum size of procurement packages and sub-projects
which can be economically implemented by the Bank Guidelines.
The environmental projects necessitate special PR work. The experiences of the
Hungarian 3R and halon regeneration project show that a Public Awareness
Raising Campaign should be started simultaneously with procurement. The
involvement of a committed PR firm and the NGOs is vital for the success of the
Campaign.



- 82 -
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table A   Usage of Ozone Depleting Substances in Hungary in 1992
Table B   Consumption of Ozone Depleting Substances in Hungary in 1992
Table C   Trends in ODS Consumption by End User Sectors in Hungary
Table D   Actual ODS Use
Table E   ODS Phaseout / Reference Year Level
Table F   ODS Phaseout / Actual Production Level
Table G   Actual Sub-project Incremental and Operating Cost Data
Table H   Cost Effectiveness of the Hungarian ODS Phaseout Project
Table I   Actual Local and Foreign Project Costs
Table J   Refrigerant Stocks in Hungary
Table K   Halon Stocks and Regeneration in Hungary
Table L   Project Timetable
Table M   Studies Included in the Project
Table N   Workshops and Training Included in the Project



- 83 -
TABLE A: USAGE OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES IN HUNGARY IN 1992
Substance          Total Use      Ozone depleting     Total Use
(tons)         potential (ODP)     (ODP tons)
Annex A, Group I
CFC-11                    891                  1.0              891
CFC-12                   1058                  1.0              1058
CFC-113                    18                 0.8-                14
CFC-114                     0                 1.0                 0
CFC-115                     0                 0.6                 0
Subtotal                 1967                                   1963
Annex A, Group II
Halon 1211                110                 3.0               330
Halon 1301                  0                 10.0                 0
Halon 2402                  0                 6.0                  0
Subtotal                  110                                    330
Annex B, Group I
Other CFCs                  0                  1.0                 0
Annex B, Group II
CC14                       73                  1.1                80
Annex B, Group III
MCF                       360                 0.1                 36
Annex C, Group I
HCFCS(a)                392(a)                0.055(a)            22
TOTAL                   2.902                                  2.431
Note:(a) - ODP for HCFC-22 was used for the determination of ODP usage of HCFC's



- 84 -
TABLE B: CONSUMPTION(A) OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES IN 1992 ACCORDING
TO UNEP FORMATS
Substance       Consumption    ODP          ODP          ODP kg
(metric tons)          Consumption   per capita*
(ODP tons)
Annex A, Group I
CFC- 11              690          1         690
CFC-12              1090          1        1090
CFC-1 13              90         0,8         72
CFC-114               10          1          10
CFC-115                0         0,6          0
Total                   1880                   1862
Annex A, Group II
Halon 1211               150         3          450
Halonl301, others         20         10         200
Total                    170                    650
Annex A, Total          2050                  2.512
Annex B, Group I           0         1,0          0
Annex B, Group II        200         1,1        220
Annex B, Group III       447         0,1         45
Annex B, Total           647                    265
Annex C, Total           319        0.055        18
Note:
--Population in 1993: 10 million
(a) - The difference in the data for ODS consumption according to UNEP formats and actual used quantity is due to different
definitions



- 85 -
TABLE C: TRENDS IN ODS CONSUMPTION BY END USER SECTORS IN HUNGARY
!EndUserSector / Year       1986         1993    j    1996   1     1997 
Refrigeration technology   1100   [      867            0            0
plastic foams              1250          603            0            0
Aerosols                  2520          262          10*           5*
Solvents                   1760          350            0            o
'fire-protection (halons)**  455           65                         0
Total                      7085         2147          10* -         5*
i*    Withpermission Of issnia use for production of anti-asthma metered-dose inhalers
**   Halon consumption (import) had already been eliminated in 1994.
TABLE D: ACTUAL ODS USE
ODP tonnes
.__________     Actual ODS Use in ODP tons__
Company             reference year 1994  1995    1996      1997    1998
HRACA*                  708.00      650  500.00   420.00  410.00  450.00
FRIGOLUX                  15.60    N/A    13.30      3.10     0.60    0.30
HAJDU                    63.30   40.664    32.13     1.20     1.20       0
METALUCON                45.60    N/A.   14.25       1.45     1.28    1.34
METISOL                  80.00    N/A.   80.00       4.40     6.60    11.00
MEDIROLL                107.00    N/A.   N/A.  40.00**          0        0
Auto-Mobil Chemical      96.76    N/A.        0         0       0        0
MMG Automatic             12.20    N/A.   N/A.          0       0        0
HITELAP                   3.20    N/A.    0.45          0       0        0
Tisza                     5.69    N/A.    2.68       0.16       0        0
F. Finommechanik           1.16    N/A.    N/A          0       0        0
BRG                        1.20    N/A.    N/A          0       0        0
RUTITEX                   6.40     N/A      N/A      3.20       0        0
Fire Protection Ass.***  269.70    N/A.    N/A    28.80    94.80    60.40
* Service demand including regenerated + recycled + retrofitted refrigerant.
** Imported regenerated
*** Service use including regenerated halon



- 86 -
TABLE E: ODS PHASEOUT / REFERENCE YEAR LEVEL
ODP tonnes
Use         ODS Phaseout / Reference Year Level
Company         reference  1994   1995    1996     1997     1998
year
HRACA                    708.00      0       0   450.00   450.00   450.00
FRIGOLUX                  15.60      0   2.30    12.50    15.00    15.30
HAJDU                     63.30  22.66  31.20    62.08    62.07    63.30
METALUCON                 45.60      0  31.35    44.15    44.32    44.26
METISOL                   80.00      0       0    75.60    73.40    69.00
MEDIROLL                 107.00      0       0    67.00   107.00   107.00
Auto-Mobil Chemical       96.76      0  96.76    96.76    96.76    96.76
MMG Automatic             12.20      0       0    12.20    12.20    12.20
HITELAP                    3.20      0       0     2.75     3.20     3.20
Tisza                      5.69      0   3.01      5.53     5.69     5.69
F6varosi Finommechanik     1.16      0   1.16      1.16     1.16     1.16
BRG                        1.20      0   1.20      1.20     1.20     1.20
RUTITEX                    6.40      0       0     3.22     6.42     6.42
Fire Protection          269.70      0       0   269.70   269.70   269.70
ODS metric tonnes
Use          ODS Phaseout / Reference Year Level
Company         reference   1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
year
HRACA                    708.00       0        0  450.00  450.00  450.00
FRIGOLUX                  15.60       0    2.30    12.50    15.00    15.30
HAJDU                     63.30    22.66    31.20    62.08    62.07    63.30
METALUCON                 45.60       0   31.35    44.15    44.32    44.26
METISOL                   80.00       0        0   75.60    73.40    69.00
MEDIROLL                 107.00       0        0   67.00   107.00   107.00
Auto-Mobil Chemical      139.60        0  139.60   139.60   139.60   139.60
MMG Automatic             90.50        0       0   90.50    90.50    90.50
HITELAP                   32.00        0       0   27.50    32.00    32.00
Tisza                     23.56        0    10.10    22.00    23.56    23.56
F6vArosi Finommechanik     1.45        0     1.45    1.45     1.45     1.45
BRG                        1.50       0      1.50    1.50     1.50     1.50
RUTITEX                    7.94       0        0     4.04     7.94     7.94
Fire Protection           86.56       0        0    86.56    86.56    86.56



- 87-
Table F: ODS Phaseout / Actual Production Level
ODP tonnes
Use           Phaseout / Actual Production Level
Company         reference   1994    1995     1996     1997    1998
year
HRACA                    708.00       0        0   125.00   313.00  390.00
FRIGOLUX                  15.60    N/A.        0    10.80    10.40   10.00
HAJDU                     63.30     8.13    16.34    55.36    69.22   59.11
METALUCON                 45.60       0        0    23.63    20.75   21.75
METISOL                   80.00       0        0    66.00        90  150.00
MEDIROLL                 107.00       0        0      7.30   112.50  118.30
Auto-Mobil Chemical       96.76       0    61.00   100.10   110.90  107.10
MMG Automatic             12.20       0        0    13.05    14.00    12.80
HITELAP                    3.20       0        0      2.95     3.70    3.90
Tisza                      5.69    N/A.      1.48     3.34     3.17     1.47
FRvdrosi Finommechanik    1.16        0        0         0        0       0
BRG                        1.20       0        0      1.32     1.32     1.20
RUTITEX                    6.40        0       0      3.20     6.47    6.08
Fire Protection          269.70       0        0    28.80    94.80   60.40
ODS metric tonnes
Use           Phaseout / Actual Production Level
Company         reference   1994    1995     1996     1997    1998
year
HRACA                                  0       0   125.00   313.00  390.00
FRIGOLUX                  15.60    N/A.        0    11.00    10.70    10.30
HAJDU                     63.30     8.13    16.34    55.36    69.22   59.11
METALUCON                 45.60       0        0    23.63    20.75   21.75
METISOL                   80.00       0        0    66.00    90.00  150.00
MEDIROLL                 107.00       0        0      7.30   112.50   118.30
Auto-Mobil Chemical      139.60       0    88.00   144.30   159.90  154.40
MMG Automatic             90.50       0        0    96.80   103.90   95.00
HITELAP                   32.00        0       0    29.50    37.00   39.00
Tisza                     23.56    N/A.      1.50    10.10    10.60    4.20
F6varosi Finommechanik    1.45         0       0         0        0        0
BRG                        1.50        0       0      1.70     1.70     1.50
RUTITEX                    7.94        0       0      3.90     8.00    7.50
Fire Protection           86.56        0        0     5.40    17.70    12.70



- 88 -
TABLE G: ACTUAL SUB-PROJECT INCREMENTAL CAPITAL AND OPERATING COST
DATA
US Dollars
GEF granted
_ . ________   ____________                Hungarian         Grand
Item    Sub-project          Capital Costs   Operating     Total        Contribution       Total
Costs
1. Project Implementation Unit   61,500      172,800       234,300          46,800         281,100
2. HRACA                      1,293,500       68,900      1,362,400        583,900        1,946,300
3. Frigolux                     433,700        7,900       441,600          73,600          515,200
4. HAJDU                        850,100      160,600      1,010,700        221,400        1,232,100
5. Metalucon                    529,100      155,900       685,000         160,600          845,600
6. Metisol                      338,900           0        338;900         147,400          486,300
7. Mediroll                      25,500       22,300        47,800           5,500           53,300
8. Auto-Mobil                    56,600       24,700        81,300               0           81,300
9. MMG-AM                     1,147,900           0       1,147,900        273,900        1,421,800
10. Hitelap                     187,100           0        187,100          16,500         203,600
1 1. Tisza                      123,900           0        123,900          33,400          157,300
12. FoFinom.                         0            0              0               0               0
13. BRG                              0        11,600        11,600           1,100           12,700
14. Rutitex                    346,300            0        346,300           9,800         356,100
15. Fire. Prot. Ass.            320,300           0        320,300               0         320,300
Financial Intermediary Fee         0            0        159,700              0          159,700
Total                         5,714,400      784,400      6,498,800       1,573,900       8,072,700



- 89 -
TABLE H: COST EFFECTIVENESS OF THE HUNGARIAN ODS PHASEOUT PROJECT
ODS Phaseout ODS Phaseout                         Grant Cost  Grant Cost  Grant Cost
Company    Estimated in   against CP   Actual ODS  GEF Grant Effetveness Effectiveness Effectiveness Montreal Protocol
the Project    Reference    Phaseout   Actual Use  Estimated in    / CP    EfActual    Thresbold
Document       Level                            the Project  Reference   Production
Document    Level
ODP tons     ODP tons   in ODP tons US$ thousand USD/ODP kg US$/ODP kg  US$/ODP kg    US$/ODP kg
HRACA         450.00       450.00      390.00     1,362.4        3.15       3.03        3.49      15.21-13.76
Frigolux       15.60        15.30       10.00       441.6      30.52       28.86       44.17            15.21
HAJDU          63.00        63.30       59.11     1,010.7       15.85      15.96       17.10             9.53
Metalucon      45.60        44.60       21.75       685.0       15.88      15.36       31.50             9.53
Metisol        80.00        69.00      150.00       338.9        4.33       4.91        2.26             9.53
Mediroll      107.00       107.00      118.30        47.8        0.50       0.45         0.4             4.40
Auto-Mobil     96.76        96.76      107.10        81.3        0.86       0.84        0.76             4.40
MMG-AM         12.20        12.20       12.80     1,147.9      98.84       94.09       89.68       19.73÷38.5
Hitelap         3.20         3.20        3.90       187.1       56.18      58.47       47.97             38.5
Tisza           5.69         5.69        1.47       123.9      23.13       21.78       84.28             38.5
F6 Finom.       1.16         1.16        1.16           0      28.94           -           -            19.73
BRG             1.20         1.20        1.20        11.6       18.47       9.67        9.67            19.73
Rutitex         6.42         6.42        6.08       346.3       53.02      53.94       56.96       19.73-38.5
Fire. Prot.   269.70       269.70       94.80       320.3        1.19       1.19        3.38             1.48
Total       1,157.53     1,145.50      977.67     6,104.8        5.47       5.33        6.24  X=X           -
PIU and Fl I       -            -           -       394.0                 -          -              -
Grand Total 1,157.53       1,145.5     977.67     6,498.8        5.96       5.67        6.65      _
Notes:
As a comparison the actual grant cost effectiveness of the Czech ODS Phaseout project was 0.98US$/kg based on the 1997
ODS phaseout figure. The same for the Hungary and Poland projects under implementation is around 6US$/kg and for the
Ukraine project that starts now, is around 13US$/kg.



- 90 -
TABLE I.: ACTUAL LOCAL AND FOREIGN PROJECT COSTS
US Dollars
GEF Grant             Hungarian Contribution     G
________ Grand
Item                                Local   Foreign    Total  Local    Foreign    Total      Total
costs    costs           Costs      costs
1. Project Implementation Unit + Fl fee  372,500   21,500  394,000   46,800   0     46,800   440,800
2. HRACA                            262,800 1,099,600 1,362,400  397,100 186,800    583,900 1,946,300
3. Frigolux                          167,500  274,100  441,600   61,100  12,500     73,600   515,200
4. HAJDU                            276,800  733,900 1,010,700   191,900  29,500    221,400  1,232,100
5. Metalucon                        369,400  315,600  685,000   159,900    700    160,600   845,600
6. Metisol                           102,900  236,000  338,900   147,400      0    147,400   486,300
7. Mediroll                          47,400      400   47,800    5,500        0      5,500    53,300
8. Auto-Mobil                        81,300        0   81,300         0       0          0    81,300
9. MMG-AM                            37,000 1,110,900 1,147,900   194,900  79,000    273,900 1,421,800
10. Hitelap                          17,000  170,100  187,100    7,900   8,600      16,500   203,600
11. Tisza                                 0   123,900  123,900    2,500  30,900     33,400   157,300
12. F6 Finomechanic                       0        0        0         0       0          0        0
13. BRG                                   0    11,600   11,600    1,100       0      1,100    12,700
14. Rutitex                             900  345,400  346,300     9,800              9,800   356,100
15. Fire. Prot. Ass.                 33,700  286,600  320,300         0       0          0   320,300
Total X                            1,769,200 4,729,600 6,498,8001 1,225,900 348,000   1,573,900 8,072,700



- 91 -
TABLE J: REFRIGERANT STOCKS
ODP tons
1994    1995    1996       1997     1998     1999
Refrigerant Stocks                  4.000   4.000   3.880   3.600   3.280   2.950
Total Service Demand                  650      500      420      410      450      480
Recycled by mobile equipment            0        0       5*       30       60       75
Processed by central reclaim unit0               0        0        3       10        15
Retrofit                                 -        -     120      280      320      330
ODS refrigerant imports            710**   480**   80***            -        -        -
Recycled+reclaimed +retrofitted         0        0      125      313      390      420
* Several dozen-service enterprises have acquired reclaiming appliances outside the framework of the GEF project
and have started recycling before 1997, when the operation of the 3R begun.
** Partially sold in the following year (from 1994 to 1995 60 tons, from 1995 to 1996 40 tons.
***Reclaimed R- 12 imported in the first half of 1996.
: only rough estimates available
TABLE K: HALON STOCKS AND REGENERATION
metric tons
year                1994      1995     1996      1997      1998     Total
Halon 1211    Stocks, metric t   2764.0   2300.0   1900.0  1600.00  1500.00
Regeneration, metric t           0         0       3.6    11.50      9.30    24.40
Regeneration, ODP t              0        0      10.8    34.50    27.90    73.20
Used for Fire Extinguishing     214.0    150.0    100.0    40.00    20.00   524.00
Inefficient Management*        250.0    250.0    200.0    60.00    35.00   795.00
Halon 1301   Stocks, metric t    159.0    130.0    120.0   110.00   100.00
Regeneration, metric t           0         0       1.8     5.80      3.10     10.70
Regeneration, ODP t             0         0      18.0    58.00    31.00   107.00
Used for Fire Extinguishing       3.2_    2.1        1.5      1.00      0.60     8.40
Inefficient Management*         25.0       8.0      8.5      9.00     9.40    59.90
Halon 2402                               _
Regeneration, metric t           0         0        0      0.38      0.25      0.63
Regeneration, ODP t             0         0         0      2.28      1.50     3.78
Halons total
Regeneration, metric t           0         0       5.4    17.70     12.70    35.80
Regeneration, ODP t             0         0      28.8    94.80    60.40   1184.00
* Inefficient Management of halon fire extinguisher includes the following three main elements:
*     Poor maintenance using non-hermetic maintenance technology,
*     Withdrawal of mobile fire extinguisher appliances from the service due to the effects of the legal
limitations on the use of the halon extinguishers mainly in 1994-96;



- 92 -
*     Supposed / non-verified illegal halon export



- 93 -
TABLE L: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned              Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   1993               1993
Preparation                              1994- 1995             1994- 1995
Appraisal                                May 1995               May 1995
Negotiations                             August 1995            August 1995
Board Presentation                       Sept. 199595           Sept. 1995
Signing                                 November29, 1995        November2'9, 1995
Effectiveness                            February 28, 1996      February 28, 1996
Project Completion                       December 98            December 98
Grant Closing                            December 31, 1997      Decemnber 3 J, 1998



- 94 -
TABLE M: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Implementing Agency   Purpose of the Study as defined  Status                 Impact of study
Ministry for         Country Program for the Phaseout Implemented    Phaseout Strategy was defined,. Investment
Environment and      of ODS in Hungary (not GEF                    sub-projects were defined for GEF
Environmental        financed)                                     submission
Management Institute
Fire Protection      Halon regeneration strategy (not  Implemented    Halon regeneration strategy for the halon
Association          GEF financed)                                 sub-project was defined, sub-project
documents prepared for Bank submission,
MMG Automatics Co.  Environmental Effect Studies    Implemented    Based on the results of this study the
Ltd.                                                               operation licenses were issued by the
relevant authorities
METISOL ltd.         Environmental Effect Study    Implemented    The study supported the issuance of
permissions for operation.
Dewpoint Consultants, Technical Evaluation of ODS  Implemented    Technical evaluation and preparation of
UK                   Phaseout Project                              ICR.
TABLE N: WORKSHOPS AND TRAINING INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Organizer/ Sub-project      Workshop and Training Activities            Date               Venue
Organized by the Bank and  Project Implementation Seminar (Regional)  January 16-20, 1995    Budapest, Hungary
NBH
Organized by the MOE and Regional Workshop on Implementation of    October 22-23, 1996    Kostelec nad Orlici,
PMU of the Czech Republic ODS Phaseout Project                                         Czech Republic
Organized by the MOE and Regional Workshop on Recovery, Reclamation May 26-28, 1997    Budapest, Hungary
PIU of Hungary           and Recycling of ODS Refrigerants and
Halons
Organized by the PIU of    Regional Workshop on Alternatives for Ozone October 27 - 30 1997   Ribno, Slovenia
Slovenia related to Sub-    Depleting Substances in the Solvent Sector
projects 9-14.
Organized by the MOE and Regional Workshop on Good Practices and    March 4 - 6., 1998  Prague, Czech
PMU of the Czech Republic Lessons of ODS Phaseout Projects                             Republic
Sub-project 2.,HRACA     "Green Courses": Training of Service     1994-1998.           Hungary
Technicians on Closed Cycle Servicing
Technology (more than 3.700 technician)



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26084d
To~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                                                       R,d,oIeci . 
HUNGARY                                                                                                   -.T oo& 7OTO                                            KAN
M O TO R W A Y S   .  a   N A TIO N A L   CA PITA L                                                                    S  f  Ali'u)ely
- -    MAIN  ROADS              c COUNTY  IMEGYE) CAPITALS'           S5L  O    VA   K  R  E   l'D .,  Z       A AUJ          TO ENIO T  I    -|
RAILROADS           0   OTHER MAJOR CITIES                                  To L-- -                                                           T         N
CANALS            ----COUNTV (MEGYEI BOUNDARIES                                              ,$
\   -_   _   RIVERS   -     -   INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES             T                                                                 0          .   ro,
EoAOTERE   T      O Ty iOR                       ,~     ~J   -                                 MNOGRADQ < , J *   '   M 
IN,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
k V- ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     TNooA        SO                           /        HEVE5                                -                 1 SAM                       (..
AU ST RI A                                                                                                                                                   T =
9                            X        a       a    e    X  C  'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9T Sl o
--  < N s O  A T                                                                                         5 /                                             o dMO $  O N
SZOLNK                 Roc 
-46'    'i-,                                                         PARANYA  'S??t                                -                                        ^46-                                                                rPF%          
9> ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~~~                                                ~~~~ Z         /  NFD t   E . R P. O   U O L V A'-  REKE               \ )X    f  L e  r  ;    uGEs   E
TR Code,                  TO9 39op 49o STCol 69c M)i o
10   203u  l 50 ILES  3t  20C.              \                      .xFEeeg...<    lEeR
ZA    V~',                                                                                                                                B                                                       `56   BE' TCI.oTooLTRR
SACSIKISKUTOlUIooC-OccOOc'
I z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soo                                                                                                                                                 T.OTRIgoOT TOOOcEQO
SLOVENIA    X~W\                                         SOMOGY\                                   TLNA7RN'*2/ 2ooLo -                                                                                                                   cn
\ f-                                    csoz4oro                        ~        I                                               -         -
CROATIA                                                                                                        ?ULLo         Toooc                                                                                         -
46'AANA                                                                                  ~(S                   C                                                                                               45 6    .c      -,o<   551
ST                                 /            /         .           ~~~~~~~~~~~FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA                                  ~-   O                                                 ,MR
1'TA       AT  TO5~61  705   KILOMETERS                                             ooo                      (Serbia/Montenegro)                                                                         4,-
S      So   20       T0    40      T MILES1'TO1O 
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1c



