E-270
VOL. 1
Republic of Yemen
Public Electricity Corporation
Sana'a Emergency Power Project
Environmental Assessment
Executive Summary
September 1998
Carl Bro International ais (I
Energy, Water and Environment Division






Republic of Yemen
Public Electricity Corporation
Sana'a Emergency Power Project
Environmental Assessment
Executive Summary
September 1998
Carl Bro International ais &
Energv, Water and Environment Division












EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Yemen
Sana'a Emergency Power Project
Environmental Assessment
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Background
The Public Electricity Corporation of Yemen (PEC), a state owned enterprise is
presently planning to undertake implementation of the proposed Sana'a Emergency
Power Project with financial support from the Intemational Development Association
(IDA), an affiliate of the World Bank Group. The objective of the proposed project
would be to improve the availability and reliability of electricity in greater Sana'a,
which is currently subject to senrous power shortages. These shortages of electricity
have various adverse social and economic impacts on the Sana'a region. Temporary
measures to correct the problems have included development of an interconnection
with Ta'iz and Aden; however, transfers of electricity from these cities is resulting in
further disruption of energy availability at an increasing number of locations. The rapid
expanding use of small generators in Sana'a to overcome the impact of power
shortages is one example of adverse effects, which have significant local impacts to air
quality and noise.
The proposed project includes the following physical investment components: (A)
selected rehabilitation and upgrading activities for the existing 20 MW diesel-fueled
power plant at the Dhahban Power Plant site; (B) installation of an additional 30 MW
of generating capacity at the existing site; and (C) expansion and upgrading of Asser
132/33 kV substation also including debottlenecking elements of the 33 kV
transmission network in Sana'a.
Objective of the Environmental Assessment
Consistent with the policies and procedures of the Government of Yemen and the
World Bank, an environmental assessment has been developed as an element of the
project preparation process. The objective of the assessment is to ensure that the
proposed project components and activities under consideration are environmentally
sound and sustainable and that any environmental consequences are recognised early in
the project cycle and taken into account in the project design.
Scope of Work
The IDA has entered an agreement with the Danish consulting company, Carl Bro
Intemational a/s to carry out, on behalf of the PEC, an environmental assessment of the
Sana'a Emergency Power Project. A site visit to Sana'a, Yemen was carried out in the
period 30 November to 14 December 1997. Project documents and baseline data were
identified and interviews with relevant authorities, institutions and persons carried out.
A draft Environmental Assessment Report of the proposed project was submnitted in the
second half of January 1998 to the involved parties for comments. From the 9th to the
C \SPP\S0163901 Ynn,e Pown Plan[\Fnal Rcpomrmevec.fin doc



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
15th of February, a mission to Sana'a, Yemen for an interactive review of the draft
report was carried out.
A Supplemental Environmental Study was prepared by an American consulting
company, Golder Associates Inc. in order to complement the Environmental
Assessment prepared by Carl Bro Intemational a/s. This study included additional field
studies conducted in July 1998. The Supplemental Environmental Study - which is
provided as Annex K includes three elements: (A) air quality analysis; (B)
recommendations for air quality monitoring; and (C) findings of a field-based review
of proposed right-of-ways for the additional project-supported transmission lines.
The overall study has addressed, but not been limited to the following key issues:
review of plant site; potential air quality impacts; cooling water requirements and
impacts on water quality; waste management and disposal; workers health and safety;
emergency management; fuel transport; and cultural heritage issues. The study has
been carried out according to World Bank guidelines for environmental assessment
(World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment" and the "World
Bank Environmental Guidelines").
Environmental Assessment
The overall power project consists of 3 inter-related components:
(A) selected rehabilitation and upgrading activities for the existing 20 MW diesel-
fuelled power plant at the Dhahban Power Plant site.
(B) installation of an additional 30 MW of generating capacity at the existing site.
(C) expansion and upgrading of Asser 132/33 kV substation also including
debottlenecking elements of the 33 kV transmission network in Sana'a. The
existing power supply network is planned to be expanded in the Sana'a north-west
area with new overhead 33 kV lines and underground cable lines.
Each of the three project components has been assessed for their potential
environmental impacts using a checklist method. Project alternatives, although limited
were also evaluated. The overall assessment has been summarised accordingly. The
environmental impact of each project component was identified by superimposing
project elements upon existing environmental conditions and then applying standard
mitigation measures.
The evaluation of the current environmental conditions in the project area has been
hampered to some extent by the limited availability of baseline data; however, the team
has been able to develop analyses which allow for accurate analysis of key
environmental risks associated with the proposed project. In addition, the
environmental assessment includes recommendations for mitigation actions to address
some key data gaps which would support more effective implementation of the
proposed project and facilitate the development of future planned investments in the
energy sector.
PP\80163901 Yenie  Po-e Pltnt\FinaI Rcpoxi'revne.fin.doc



EXECUTIVE SJUMMARY
The diesel fuel used by the power plant is supplied by Yemen Petroleum Company
from the refinery either in Ma'rib (180 km from Dhahban) or from the refinery in
Aden (270 km from Dhahban). It is generally stated that the Aden Refinery supplies
most of the diesel oil, but it has not been possible to obtain data on the exact amount
of incoming diesel oil supplied by the Aden Refinery and Ma'rib refinery,
respectively.
Legal and Administrative Framework
The evaluation of the potential environmental impact and the establishment of proper
mitigation measures has been influenced by the fact that Yemeni national
environmental standards or guidelines regulating the environmental problems
identified in analysis of the proposed project are reported to be in a draft stage and
therefore they are not applicable for the project presently. Due to the absence of
formally approved Yemeni environmental procedures and guidelines, those of the
World Bank have been adopted for use in preparation of the environmental assessment
with the agreement with the PEC and the Environmental Protection Council (EPC).
PEC's institutional capacity to handle and manage the environmental components in
relation to the proposed project has been assessed to be extremely limited. There is no
environmental department or other administrative framework devoted to environmental
management within the PEC.
Public Consultations
Under World Bank procedures, the borrower is expected to take the views of affected
groups and local non govermnental organisations (NGO's) fully into account in project
design and implementation and in particular during the preparation of the EA. The
purpose of taking the views of the affected people into account is to improve project
viability.
A number of meetings and consultations were arranged for data collection to support of
the EA and for interactive review of the draft report. A public consultation was held
with local village leaders to obtain comments and answer questions concerning the
proposed project. Meetings with relevant non-govemmental-organisation's, NGO's
were also arranged with the Yemen Water Protection Society and Friends for Nature.
In addition, a copy of the draft EA report was submitted to the Yemeni branch of the
Birdlife International, an international NGO, for review and comment.
In general, it can be concluded that the project overall was considered as a positive
contribution for development of the infrastructure in the Sana'a area. A list of meetings
held and conclusions are reported in the EA. Copies of the draft EA report were
distributed for further review and made available at a number of locations including
PEC, EPC and the World Bank Office in Sana'a.
Project-specific Environmental Assessment
SPPISO t63901 Yanem  Power Plan\F,nal Reportrev-excc.fin doc
_ T_A _



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The environmental assessment for the three interrelated project components can be
summarised as follows:
COMPONENT A. REHABILITATION OF THE EXISTING 4 UNIT 20 MW POWER
PLANT
The work included in the project component concems selected rehabilitation and
upgrading activities for the existing 20 MW diesel-fueled power plant at the Dhahban
Power Plant mainly constituted by major overhauling and upgrading of the engines,
auxiliary equipment of the engines, electrical generators, transformers, M.V. and L.V.
boards and electrical auxiliary equipment of the power plant. Noise reduction
measures, rehabilitation of the existing waste water and drainage system, improvement
of environmental management procedures and emergency contingency plans are also
included.
Due to the present low consumption of fuel oil (peak load operation of 1 unit) and the
following minimum need for re-loading of the oil storage tanks, it has not been
possible to include on-site evaluation of fuel oil loading procedures in the assessment.
Observations made during site visits of previous spillage's of fuel oil at the place for
loading of oil storage tanks indicates a need for updating of procedures for fuel oil
loading. Assistance for updating of the present applied procedures has been included as
a part of the proposed mitigation measures.
Climate and Air Quality
An air quality impact analysis has been performed for nitrogen dioxide (NO2), sulfur
dioxide (SO2) and particulate matter (PM1O) emissions due to baseline and future
operations. The Industrial Source Complex Short-Term (ISCST3) dispersion model,
Version 97360, was used to evaluate the potential impact due to pollutant emissions
from the existing and proposed diesel units. All calculations have been made on the
basis of a fuel oil analysis for light diesel oil - grade 2 from Aden Refinery. The air
quality analysis showed that a stack height of 27 meters is required also on the existing
rehabilitated power plant in order to ensure compliance with the World Bank ambient
air quality guidelines (Ref. Annex K). Presuming that a satisfactory rehabilitation of
the diesel engines is carried out, it is assessed that the emission of oil aerosols from the
ventilation outlets on the roof of the engine hall does not represent any significant
impact.
An agreement has been included as a part of the project that fuel with characteristics
equal or better than 0.2 percent maximum sulfur content, 0.01 percent maximum ash
content and a Cetane Index of 52 or better would be used in the rehabilitated power
plant.
The calculated pollutant emissions for the existing and proposed sources at the plant
are presented in Table E-1.
3PP\80163901 Yaemn PoWEr Pianr\Finaj Repofl\rev-cxec fin doc



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Table E-1      Comparison of Pollutant Emissions for the Existing and
Proposed Sources at the Dhahban Plant to the World Bank
Guidelines (ref. Annex K)
Comparison of Pollutant Emissions for the Existing and Proposed Sources at the Dhahban
Plant to the World Bank Guideline
Emission              World Bank
Guideline
Source                    Pollutant     (g/Nm3)                 (g/Nm3)
Existing Operations
Unit I- Unrehabilitated   NO,           0.80                       2.30
SO2          0.37                       2.00
PM           0.05                       0.05
Future Operations
Rehabilitated Units 1 to 4  NO,         2.26                       2.30
so,          0.705                      2.00
PM           0.05                       0.05
Proposed- Units I to 5    NO,           2.26                       2.30
so2          0.705                      2.00
PM           0.05                       0.05
Note: Existing operations include one unit since only one unit was in operation during the site
visit by Golder personnel.
Water Resources for Cooling Water Requirements
A de-mineralising unit (an ion exchanger) is installed in the power plant and is used for
purification of the cooling water for the diesel engines due to the high mineral content
of the raw well water which otherwise would precipitate, causing clogging in the
cooling system. The de-mineralising process rejects 32% of the raw water when
producing 68%, which leads to a total demand of raw water for the cooling process at
the existing plant of 3.4 m3/day. Estimating a raw water need of 5 m3/day for the new
power plant, a total need for raw water at the existing and the new power plant is
estimated in the range of 10 m3/day
The de-mineralising unit has a capacity of 15 gal/min = 82 m3/day, which is assessed
to be sufficient for cooling purposes. The capacity of the 15 kW pump installed in the
well is 500 m3/day, which is sufficient.
The water resource in the north-westem part of the Sana'a plain, where the Dhahban
Power Plant is situated, is generally groundwater abstraction from the Tawilah
sandstone aquifer. The Western well-field supplying Sana'a with domestic water, has
an abstraction of approximately 22,700 m3/day from 19 wells.
'SPP\S0163901 Yemen Power Plan\Final Repon\ eoec.fin doc



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
It is accordingly assessed that the water abstraction for cooling water purposes and
domestic water use at the Dhahban Power Plant will not cause any noticeable effects
on the water balance in the area.
Impact on Water Qualitv
The original waste water system at Dhahban Power Plant is divided in a drainage
system (mainly for drainage of rain water) and an oil spillway system for handling of
oil polluted waste water.
It is assessed that the water from the drainage system does not pose any risk to the
ground water resources as long as the drainage pipe system is intact and does not drain
any oil polluted area. It is assessed that the sewage water component of the drainage
water does not constitute any risk to the ground water resources. It is recommended to
pH-neutralise the reject water from the ion exchanger before discharge. When
neutralised, the individual components of the reject water do not cause any
environmental concern.
An extension to the original oil spillway system has later been constructed by the PEC.
The present routines for use of this later constructed extension of the oil spillway
system for discharge of oily water and waste oil into a non-lined underground reservoir
do not comply with good environmental standards. It is strongly recommended that
these routines are stopped as soon as possible. It is further recommended, as a part of
the rehabilitation project, that the constructed extension of the original oil spillway
system should be closed as soon as possible and alternative solutions for handling the
waste stream from the oil spillway system should be implemented.
The environmental problems related to the presence of significant amounts of oil
products discharged into the underground reservoir with the subsequent potential risk
of pollution of groundwater resources have been assessed, based on available data.
Using a conservative approach and taking into consideration some contradictions in the
collected data, it cannot be ruled out that the previous routines for oily waste handling
may constitute a pollution threat to the groundwater resources in the local area.
Proposal for a mitigation action is included as a part of the proposed environmental
mitigation plan in the EA.
Waste Management
Procedures for proper management of waste including oily waste at plant level should
be implemented. General procedures for the final safe disposal of oily waste and waste
oil have to be developed at PEC level. Proposal for an assistance project in this respect
is included as a part of the EA.
Human External Environment Including Ambient Noise Level
A number of mitigation measures for noise reduction are included in the project. This
includes supply of noise barrier on the air roof extractors, supply of air intake silencers
in the intake air duct of the engines, supply of exhaust gas silencers in the exhaust gas
duct of the engines, supply of a sound proff cladding on the external wall close to the
SPP\B0163901 Yen,, PowerPlant\Finad Repon\-enen findoc



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
existing engine hall. After implementation of the proposed measures, the ambient noise
level from the rehabilitated plant is expected to meet World Bank guidelines for
ambient noise.
Workers Health and Safety
As mentioned in the previous section, a number of mitigation measures for noise
reduction are included in the rehabilitation project. The intemal noise levels at the
engine hall after rehabilitation (estimated 100-105 dB(A)) are however not expected to
fully meet World Bank guidelines (95 dB(A) for new constructed power plants). It is
therefore recommended that personal hearing protection be used in combination with
temporary noise reducing measures during maintenance operations. Occupational
health and safety conditions for the power plant workers will be improved at a number
of specific points as a part of the project. This will be implemented with assistance
from an international environmental consultant in co-operation with national
responsible authorities.
Fire Fighting and Emergency Set-up
No fire or emergency plan was identified at the plant. A simple contingency plan
which describes the general procedures and contact points in case of fire or other
emergency incidents will be implemented as a part of the project.
Historical and Cultural Resources
It is assessed that potential historical and cultural interests will not be affected by this
component of the project. The proposed project has been reviewed by the antiquities
authorities.
COMPONENT B. CONSTR UCTION OF A NEW 5 UNIT 30 MW POWER PLANTA T
A SITE ADJACENT TO THE EXSTING PLANT SITE AND WITHIN THE EXISTING
AREA OF PEC
The work included in the proposed project component concerns installation of 5 diesel
generator sets, each having a site max. rating of 6,000 kW, associated mechanical
equipment, common station equipment, electrical works and civil works. The civil
works cover foundation of diesel generator sets and relevant auxiliaries, building for
diesel generator sets and building for control of the plant. A number of noise reducing
measures, construction of a new waste water and drainage system including treatment
units for oily waste water, improvement of environmental management procedures and
emergency contingency plans will also be included under the proposed project.
Climate and Air Quality
All calculations have been made on the basis of a fuel oil analysis for light diesel oil -
grade 2 from Aden Refinery. In order to meet the requirements when operating the
existing and the new power plant simultaneously, also the necessary stack height for
the new plant has been calculated. A stack height of 27 meters is required in order to
ensure that the requirements in the World Bank guidelines for new power plants will
_ SPP80163901 Y mem oe Po  rPnXFfnl Rcpor\lea e,c .fin doc
F R_~ 



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
not be exceeded during simultaneous operation of both plants (Ref. Annex K). The
results of the calculations are shown in table E-1.
An agreement has been included as a part of the project that fuel with characteristics
equal or better than 0.2 percent maximum sulfur content, 0.01 percent maximum ash
content and a Cetane Index of 52 or better would be used in the rehabilitated plant and
the new power plant.
Water Resources Including Cooling Water Requirements
Estimating a raw water need of 5 m3/day for the new power plant, a total need for raw
water at the existing and the new power plants is estimated in the range of 10 m3/day.
The de-mineralising unit has a capacity of 15 gal/min = 82 m3/day, which is assessed
to be sufficient for cooling purposes. The capacity of the 15 kW pump installed in the
well is 500 m3/day, which is sufficient.
The water resources in the north-western part of the Sana'a plain, where the Dhahban
Power Plant is situated, are generally groundwater abstraction from the Tawilah
sandstone aquifer. The Western well-field supplying Sana'a with domestic water, has
an abstraction of approximately 22,700 m3/day from 19 wells.
It is accordingly assessed that the overall water abstraction for cooling water purposes
and domestic water use at the Dhahban Power Plant will not cause any noticeable
effects on the water balance in the area.
Impact on Water Quality
Waste water treatment is included as an element of the project. As a part of the
proposal the waste waster system from the existing plant will be combined with the
new system in order to establish an effective system for waste water treatment at the
Dhahban Power Plant. This implies that the joint oil/water separator should be
dimensioned according to the dimensions in a joint waste water system.
It is recommended that the design of the waste water system at the existing plant is
used in the new plant, which includes a division of the system into a clean-water
system for areas that are not supposed to be oil polluted and an oil spillway system for
areas that risk being polluted with diesel or lube oil.
Waste Management
Procedures for proper management of waste including waste oil and oily waste at plant
level will be implemented as a part of the proposed project. General procedures for
final safe disposal of oily waste and waste oil should be developed at PEC level.
Proposal for an assistance project in this respect is included as a part of the proposed
environmental mitigation plan in the EA.
'P\S0163901 Yemen Power Plans\Final Reponvsre-execlin.doc



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Human External Environment Including Ambient Noise Levels
A number of mitigation measures for noise reduction are included in the project. These
measures mainly concern supply of higher efficiency exhaust gas silencers, supply of
higher efficiency intake air silencers, design of air exhaust louvers with sound barriers,
internal partition walls for engine maintenance. After implementation of proposed
measures, the ambient noise level from the rehabilitated plant is expected to meet
World Bank guidelines for ambient noise.
Workers Health and Safety
As mentioned in the previous section, a number of mitigation measures for noise
reduction are included in the rehabilitation project. The internal noise levels at the
engine hall after rehabilitation (100 - 105 dB(A)) are although not expected to fully
meet World Bank guidelines (95 dB(A) for new constructed power plants). It is
therefore recommended that personal hearing protection is utilised in combination with
temporary noise reducing measures during maintenance operations. Occupational
health and safety conditions for the power plant workers will be improved at a number
of specific'points as a part of the project. This will be implemented with assistance
from an international environmental consultant in co-operation with national
responsible authorities.
Fire Fighting and Emergency Set-up
A simple contingency plan which describes the general procedures and contact points
in case of fire or other emergency incidents will be implemented as a part of the
proposed project. The plan will cover both the existing and the new plants.
Historical and Cultural Resources
The proposed project has been reviewed by the antiquities authorities. It is evaluated
that potential historical and cultural interests will not be affected by the project, but the
construction company should be informed about present rules and regulations in case
unrecorded archaeological and/or historical values are identified during construction
activities. To address this concern, the construction contractor will be instructed to use
archaeological "chance find" procedures in case such materials are encountered during
excavation activities.
The proposed project has been reviewed by the antiquities authorities.
COMPONENT C. EXPANSION AND UPGRADING OF ASSER 132/33 kV
SUBSTATION ALSO INCLUDING DEBOTTLENECKING ELEMENTS OF THE
TRANSMISSION NETWORK IN SANA 'A.
Assessment of the project component for expansion and upgrading of Asser substation,
including debottlenecking elements of the transmission network in Sana'a, - is
influenced by the fact that this project component is not finally designed at the present
stage. The assessment is based on data collected during site visits conducted in
December 1997, July 1998 and on documentation provided by PEC.
C 'SPP\t0163901 Yemen Power Plant\Final Reporte\-exec fin doc
F 0-



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Asser substation subcomponent
The 132/33 kV Asser substation on the west side of Sana'a was constructed in 1982.
The substation is the main bulk supply point to the Sana'a system. Asser substation is
supplied from a 132 kV line about 150 km long that runs from Dhamar substation in
the south to Amran substation in the north. Dhamar substation in tum is connected to
the overall PEC grid that is supplied mainly from the three steam plants Al Hiswa in
the south and Ras Katenib and Al Mukha in the west.
The physical rehabilitation and construction work at Asser substation is restricted to:
-  construction of a double circuit 132 kV open switchyard with two bus sections.
- addition of a third 60 MVA power transformer.
- extension of access road behind the existing 33 kV switchgear building.
-  extension of 33 kV switchgear building to accommodate additional panels.
Transmission line subcomponent
Based on discussions with the PEC management, the following policy for construction
of right-of-ways for power overhead lines was outlined:
-  to apply existing right-of-ways or to construct right-of-ways along existing roads
and highways.
-  to avoid construction of overhead lines passing over existing building and houses.
-  if unavoidable for construction of the overhead line, to negotiate conditions for
right-of-way passing private land with land owners.
Specific project documents for the construction of transmission lines including a right-
of-way map have been prepared. A single-line and impedance diagram for Sana'a
power distribution system elaborated by Bechtel in 1993 for a previous study forms the
basis for the planned construction of transmission lines.
An initial assessment was prepared by Carl Bro International a/s and supplemented by
the study of Golder Associates Inc. The assessment has been based on a visual
inspection of the planned right-of-way as drawn on the map by PEC. According to the
information obtained and the visual site inspection, no land use interests will be
affected by the right-of-way of the 33 kV overhead lines. Due to the scarce vegetation
and the location in a peri-urban area, and according to the information obtained from
the visual site inspection, no vegetation and wildlife interests will be affected by the
right-of-way of the 33 kV overhead lines. Based on the fact that the location of the
overhead lines is in existing overhead line clearances or along roads and according to
the information obtained from the visual site inspection, it is further assessed that no
human extemal environment interests will be affected by the right-of-way of the 33 kV
overhead lines. No resettlement is planned for the project. Due to the location of the
overhead lines in existing overhead line clearances or along roads and according to the
information obtained from the visual site inspection, no historical and cultural
resources will be affected by the right-of-way of the 33 kV overhead lines.
'P\S0163901 Yemen Power Pant\Fina Reportrev-cxec.fin.doc
F_11 1 _



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Only small impacts are expected from the construction of the planned overhead
lines/underground cables. Consultancy assistance for PEC has been included in the
project in order to ensure that World Bank environmental guidelines for power line
construction are respected.
A preliminary review conducted by PEC, at the request of the World Bank, did not
identify the presence of any transformers known to have PCB's; however, the
environmental mitigation plan would include an independent review of PCB's in
transformers.
Summary of Assessment Results
Table E-2 provides a detailed summary of the findings of the environmental
assessment process. The table has been structured to include infornation on the
findings and conclusions conceming potential environmental impacts and to identify
proposed mitigation activities. This table is complemented by a series of tables which
provide information on the analysis of altematives (E-3), a mitigation plan (E-4) and a
monitoring plan (E-5).
Table E-2    Summary of Environmental Assessment
EA - Findings and Conclusions                    Proposed Mitigation Measures
Potential Environmental Impact                   Brief Description
1.     General conclusions
1.1    No Yemeni national environmental standards
or guidelines regulate the environmental problems
identified in the proposed project. Instead, World Bank
guidelines have been used as reference, where possible.
1.2    The PEC capacity for handling and managing   IA  Assistance and Terms of Reference for
environmental components in relation to the proposed   institutional support of PEC should to be included as a
project is assessed to be very limited.          part of the mitigation plan:
IA, - Overall environmental consultancy assistance
IA, - Basic environmental management training.
IB     Environmental management of power plant
operations should be included as part of the considered
Operational and Maintenance Management Contract
with an external contractor.
1.3    The evaluation of the current environmental    IC  EA includes recommendations for mitigation
conditions in the project area has been hampered to  actions to address some key data gaps which would
some extent been hampered by the limited availability   support more effective implementation of the proposed
of baseline data.                                project and facilitate the development of future planned
investments in the energy sector.
1.4     General procedures and options for final safe  ID    Terms of Reference should be developed for an
disposal of oily waste and waste oil are lacking and  assistance  project for  development  of general
have to be developed at PEC level.               procedures and options for final safe disposal of oily
C 'SPP\O0163901 Yemen Pomcu P1nt\F,n.1 Rapon\r\emexec fi' doc
w 1-,



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
EA - Findings and Conclusions                      Proposed Mitigation Measures
Potential Environmental Impact                     Brief Description
waste and waste oil.
1.5          No air quality monitoring programme,  IF     Terms of Reference should be developed for a
system or stations exist in the Sana'a area.       baseline air quality monitoring programme.
2.      COMPONENT A. Rehabilitation of the
existing 4 unit 20 MWpower plant
2.1    Draft description of mitigating elements    2A      A detailed examination should be carried out
covering noise and waste water treatment are included   for the existing drainage system, septic tank and oil
in the project document for rehabilitation of the  spillway system in order to secure that pipes are intact
existing Dhahban Power Plant.                      and that the systems are functioning according to the
original design.
2.2    An air quality analysis have showed that a  2B      Stack height has to be raised to 27 meters. An
stack height of 27 meters is required also on the  agreement has been included as a part of the project
existing rehabilitated power plant in order to ensure  that fuel with characteristics equal or better than 0.2
compliance with the World Bank ambient air quality    percent maximum sulfur content, 0.01 percent
guidelines                                         maximum ash content and a Cetane Index of 52 or
better would be used in the rehabilitated power plant.
2.3    Presuming that a satisfactory rehabilitation of
the diesel engines is carried out, it is assessed that the
emission of oil aerosols from the ventilation outlets at
the roof of the engine hall does not represent any
significant impact.
2.4    It is assessed that the water abstraction for
cooling water purposes and domestic water use will not
cause any noticeable effects on the water balance in the
area.
2.5    It is assessed that the water from the drainage
system does not pose any risk to the ground water
resources as long as the drainage pipe system is intact
and does not drain any oil polluted area.
2.6    It is assessed that the sewage water component
of the drainage water does not constitute any risk to the
ground water resources.
2.7    It is recommended to pH-neutralize the reject   2C  A component for pH-neutralization of the
water from the ion exchanger before discharge.     reject water has to be included in the proposed project
Thereafter, the individual components of the reject  covering Component B and Component C.
water do not cause any environmental concern.
2.8    The present routines for use of the extended  2D   The present routines for discharge of waste
oil spillway system for discharge of oily water and  water should be stopped immediately, the current
waste oil into a non-lined underground reservoir do not  extension of the oil spillway system closed, and an
comply with good environmental standards.          alternative system placed into operation.
2.9    Altemative solutions for handling the waste    2E   The oil spillway system should be replaced by
water stream from the oil spillway system should be  construction of a simple oil/water separator system for
implemented.                                       handling discharged oil polluted wastewater from the
oil spillway system.
;PP\80163901 Yemn= Power Plant\Final Report\rev-exee fin doc
_ F~ 1 _ 



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
EA - Findings and Conclusions                    Proposed Mitigation Measures
Potential Environmental Impact                   Brief Description
2.10   The envirounmental problems related to the  2F   Terms of Reference should be prepared for a
presence of significant amounts of oil products  rmitigation project for protection of ground water
discharged into the underground reservoir with an  resources against potential oil pollution.
accompanying potential risk of pollution of
groundwater resources have been assessed, based on
available data. Using a conservative approach and
taking into consideration some contradictions in the
collected data, it cannot be ruled out that the previous
routines for oily waste handling might constitute a
pollution threat to the groundwater resources in the
local area.
2.11    Procedures for management of oily waste at    2G,    Simple oil waste management procedures
the power plant should be implemented.           should be developed for handling and collection of
various types of oily waste at the power plant
2G2     Establishment of oil spill trays at "hot spots"
and site preparation for long-term storage of oil
polluted soil. Handling of oil polluted soil and oily
water during construction
2G3     Establishment of additional temporary
storage capacity for waste oil and oily waste.
2.12    The extemal noise level from the rehabilitated  2H  Proposed external and intemal noise
plant is expected to meet World Bank guidelines for  abatement measures should be implemented.
ambient noise, when proposed noise abatement
measures are implemented.
2.13    The intemal noise levels at the engine hall  21  Proposed internal noise abatement measures
after rehabilitation are not expected to meet World  should be implemented.
Bank guidelines.
2.14    Occupational health and safety conditions for   2J  A number of recommendations should be
the power plant workers should be improved at a  implemented for improvement of working conditions in
number of specific points.                       cooperation with expertise from the Department of
Public Health and Safety under the Ministry of Labour
and Vocational Training.
2.15   No fire or emergency plan was identified at    2K  A simple fire and emergency plan should be
the plant. It is recommended to prepare a simple  prepared
contingency plan which describes the general
procedures and contact points in case of fire or other    2L  Overall cleaning of the power plant hall
emergency incidents.                             should be established for removal of spilt oil and other
flammable materials (especially in ventilation
ducts/outlets and cable channels) in order to reduce the
risk of fire.
2.16   It is assessed that potential historical and
cultural interests will not be affected by the project.
2.17    Observations made during site visits of 2M    Present fuel oil loading procedures should be
previous spillage's of fuel oil at the place for loading of updated.
oil storage tanks indicates a need for updating of
procedures for fuel oil loading.
\ SPP\80163901 Ymer   Power Plant\Tmal Repnre-xem fin doc
- F-l -



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
EA - Findings and Conclusions                    Proposed Mitigation Measures
Potential Environmental Impact                   Brief Description
3.     COMPONENT B. Construction of a new S
unit 30 MWpowerplant at a site adjacent to the
existingplant site and within the existing area of
PEC
3.1    Draft descriptions of mitigating elements
covering noise and waste water treatment are included
in the project document for construction of a new 30
MW plant at the Dhahban power plant site.
3.2    In order to meet the requirements when    3A     The stack height should be increased to 27 m,
operating both power plants simultaneously, the  rather than the proposed 15 m to allow the new plant to
necessary stack height for the new plant has been  be in accordance with World Bank ambient air quality
calculated. A stack height of 27 meters is required in    guidelines. An agreement has been included as a part of
order to ensure that the requirements in the World Bank  the project that fuel with characteristics equal or better
guidelines for new power plants will not be exceeded    than 0.2 percent maximum sulfur content, 0.01 percent
during simultaneous operation of both plants.    maximum ash content and a Cetane Index of 52 or
better would be used in the rehabilitated plant and the
new power plant.
3.3    It is assessed that the water abstraction for
cooling water purposes and domestic water use will not
cause any noticeable effects on the groundwater
balance in the area.
3.4    It is recommended to combine the          3B     A the new drainage and wastewater system
waste water system from the existing plant with the  should be designed and constructed according to
new system in order to establish an effective system for  principles laid down in the existing plant and with
waste water treatment at the Dhahban Power Plant.  design of a simple oil/water separator common for both
This implies that the joint oil/water separator should be  the existing and the new system.
dimensioned according to the dimensions in a joint
waste water system.
3.5    It is recommended that the design of the waste
water system at the existing plant is used at the new
plant, which includes a division of the system in a
clean-water system for areas that are not supposed to be
oil polluted and an oil spillway system for areas of risk
being polluted with diesel or lube oil.
3.6    Procedures for management of oily waste   3C     Simple oil waste management procedures
should be implemented.                           should be developed for handling and collection of
various types of oily waste at the power plant.
3D     The proposed PEC pilot project for
identification of safe solutions for disposal of oily
waste and waste oil should be implemented.
3.7    Ansaldo provides proposals for abatement  3E     Noise abatement measures proposed by
measures for reduction of noise emissions related to the  Ansaldo should be included in the project.
operation of the diesel engines.
3.8    The external noise level from the operation of
the existing and the new power plant simultaneously is
expected to be close to meet World Bank guidelines for
ambient noise, if proposed noise abatement procedures
are implemented.
'P\80163901 Ytn Power Plnt\Finmal Report\xevec.fin doc



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
EA - Findings and Conclusions                    Proposed Mitigation Measures
Potential Environmental Impact                   Brief Description
3.9    The indoor noise levels at the engine hall are   3F  Noise abatement measures proposed by
not expected to meet World Bank guidelines, unless  Ansaldo should be included in the project. If World
extensive noise abatement procedures are implemented.  Bank guidelines for intemal noise can not be met,
personal hearing protection has to be applied.
3.10    Occupational health and safety conditions for   3G  Overall working conditions should be
power plant workers should be included in the project.  improved in cooperation with expertise from the
Department of Public Health and Safety under the
Ministry of Labour and Vocational Training.
3.11   It is recommended to prepare a simple     3H      A simnple fire and emergency plan should be
contingency plan which describes the general     prepared.
procedures and contact points in case of fire or other
emergency incidents. The plan should cover both the
existing and the new plant.
3.12    It is evaluated that potential historical and  31  The construction company should be instructed to
cultural interests will not be affected by the project.  use archaeological "chance find" procedures when
encountering any archaeological materials during
construction work.
4.     COMPONENT C. Expansion and upgrading
of Asser BSP 132/33 kVSubstation including
debottlenecking elements of the transmission network
in Sana'a.
4.1    Descriptions of the two project           4A  It is proposed as a part of the environmental
subcomponents have been identified. The component    assistance for PEC to include consultancy assistance to
has been assessed by Carl Bro Intemational and   secure  proper  implementation  of environmental
supplemented by the study of Golder Associates Inc.    mitigation measures related to project subcomponents
conceming transmission network upgrading. A
4.2    The assessment was based on a visual      prelimninary review conducted by PEC, at the request of
inspection of the right-of-way as drawn on the map  the World Bank, did not identify the presence of any
provided by PEC.                                 transformers known to have PCB's; however, the
environmental mitigation plan is proposed to include
4.3    According to the information obtained and the  an independent review of PCB's in transformers.
visual site inspection, no land use interests will be
affected by the right-of-way of the 33 kV overhead
lines.
4.4    Due to scarce vegetation and the location in a
peri-urban area, and according to the information
obtained from the visual site inspection, no vegetation
and wildlife interests is assessed to be affected by the
right-of-way construction of the 33 kV overhead lines.
4.5    Due to the location of the overhead lines in
existing overhead line clearances or along roads and
according to the information obtained from the visual
site inspection, no human extemal environment interest
is assessed to be affected by the right-of-way of the 33
kV overhead lines. No resettlement is planned for the
project.
4.6     Due to the location of the overhead lines in  4B   Once the final alignment of the right-of-ways are
existing overhead line clearances or along roads and  deternined, a consultation should be undertaken with
\SPP\8013901 Yanen Power Plant\Fmal Reporrc-.xec.fin doc
_1 Z



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
EA - Findings and Conclusions                   Proposed Mitigation Measures
Potential Environmental Impact                  Brief Description
according to the information obtained from the visual archaeological authorities.
site inspection, no historical and cultural resources will
be affected by the right-of-way of the 33 kV overhead
lines.
Analysis of Alternatives
Table E-3 provides an overview of the analysis of altematives including the no action
altemative, which was conducted as an element of the environmental assessment. As a
part of the environmental assessment, altematives to the proposed project have to be
described and detailed. Consequences and related impacts of the project altematives are
accordingly outlined. Three alternatives have been assessed: the No Action Alternative,
the Gas Fuel Altemative and the Alternative Siting Altemative.
Table E-3    Analysis of Alternatives
Project Alternative              Major Environmental and    Major Environmental and
Other Benefits                Other Drawbacks
No Action Alternative
1. Dhahban Power Plant power
production can only be continued at
a maxinum effect of 8 MW (2
diesel units) for an unpredictable
length of time in a short-term
perspective.
2. The unstable electricity supply
in the Sana'a region will continue.
3. The rapidly expanding use of
small fuel-driven power generators
in Sana'a to reduce the impact of
power shortages will continue to
increase.
4. The identified problems related
to previous routines for handling
oily waste and waste water will not
be solved.
5. The opportunity to use the
present project as a pilot project in
PEC for environmnentally sound
handling of oily waste products will
not be realized.
\80163901 Yemen Power Plant\finad Reponr<-xec.fin doc
F _17



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Project Alternative               Major Environmental and           Major Environmental and
Other Benefits                  Other Drawbacks
Gas Supply Alternative
1. Use of natural gas as fuel will  1. At present, no specific plans
create less impact on the air quality.  have been developed to supply the
Sana'a region with natural gas from
2. Use of natural gas will minimise  the Ma'rib area. Private sector
problems with oil waste handling.   investors give priority to
development of pipelines for gas
export rather than domestic use.
2. Dual-fuel engines have to be
selected involving higher
investment costs.
3. Taking Yemeni conditions into
consideration, maintenance and
general operation will be new and
probably more complicated
compared to diesel operations.
Alternative Siting
1. Site selection can in principle be  1. It will not be possible to take
made with respect to all concerned   advantage of the already prepared
environmental and planning issues.  site in Dhahban.
2. All basic and technical facilities
have to be developed from scratch.
3. Land acquisition is necessary.
4. Land acquisition in Yemen is in
general an extremely complicated
process. The tribal structure of
Yemeni society and the lack of a
cadaster system for land ownership
registration will heavily influence
the possibility for and availability
of land for power plant siting.
5. Rehabilitation and clean-up
actions at the existing plant still
have to be considered.
Mitigation Measures and Mitigation Plan
Table E-4 provides a detailed summary of the Mitigation Plan recommended for the
proposed project. It reviews each proposed mitigation action and links them to the
findings presented in Table E-2. The presentation also provides information on the
expected benefits from each proposed mitigation action, identified the party
responsible for implementation and estimated costs for each intervention.
C 'SPP\SO1639O1 Ynntn Power P=nt\F,n.1 Report\neve fin doc
F-1 9



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Table E4    Mitigation Measures and Mitigation Plan
Proposed Mitigation Measures           Expected Benefit             Party            Estimated
(numbers in brackets refer to EA                               responsible for          costs
Summary Table)                                                Implementation           (US $)
1. General Mitigation Measures
1.1 Assistance and Terms of Reference
for institutional support of PEC included
as a part of the mitigation plan (IA):
1.1.1 Overall environmental          - general follow-up of  PEC in co-operation     73,000 USD
consultancy assistance (IA,). TOR    mitigation plan on issues  with international
included as part of EA report.       allocated for PEC        environment
- institutional support for  consultant
PEC
1.1.2 Basic environmental management   - introduction of     PEC/EPC in co-          88,000 USD
training (1A2). TOR included as part of   environmental       operation with
EA report.                           management principles   international
in PEC power plant      environment
management              consultant
1.2  Assistance project for development  - identification of  PEC/EPC in co-         92,000 USD
of general procedures and options for  sustainable methods for   operation with
final safe disposal of oily waste and  handling and final    international
waste oil (I C/3D). TOR included as part  disposal of waste oil  environment
of EA report.                        within PEC               consultant
1.3  A proposal for a baseline air   - provision of baseline  PEC/EPC in co-        300,000 USD
quality monitoring program (1D). TOR    air quality monitoring  operation with
included as part of EA report.       data to be used as      international
background data for     environment
future energy projects  consultant
2. Structural Mitigation Measures
2.1 A detailed examination carried out   - to secure that existing    PEC - to be included  Included in
for the existing drainage system, septic   piping is intact and that   in final contract -  Ansaldo offer (see
tank and oil spillway system (2A).   the systems are          Contractor                 2.4)
functioning according to
the original design.
2.2 Equipment for pH-neutralization of  - to ensure proper quality  PEC - to be included  50,000 USD
the reject water (2C).               of reject water before it  in final contract -
enters the oil spillway  Contractor
system.
2.3 The present inappropriate routines   - to avoid further   PEC - to be included   Included in
for discharge of waste water should be    discharge of oil   in final contract -   Ansaldo offer (see
stopped immediately and the later    compounds into the       Contractor                 2.4)
constructed extension of the oil spillway  existing oily water
system closed. Provision of temporary    reservoir.
storage for oily water (2D).
2.4 The oil spillway system          - to ensure proper future   PEC - to be included    650,000 USD
reconstructed including construction of a  management of oily  in final contract -
simple oil/water separator system for  waste water.           Contractor PEC in
SPP\80163901 Yerncn Power Plantfinal Reponmrev-xc=.fin.doc
- 11_



EXECUTIVE SUNIMARY
Proposed Mitigation Measures          Expected Benefit             Party            Estimated
(numbers in brackets refer to EA                              responsible for          costs
Surnmary Table)                                              Implementation           (US $)
handling discharged oil polluted waste    - provision of quality  co-operation with  Included in 1. I. I
water from the oil spillway system. A  assurance of the      international
the new drainage and wastewater system   proposed spillway   environment
should be designed and constructed   design.                 consultant
according to principles laid down in the
existing plant and with design of a
simple oil/water separator common for
both the existing and the new
system.(2E/3B)
2.5 Mitigation project for protection of  - to identify extent and    PEC in co-operation  133,000 USD
ground water resources against potential  further steps necessary, if  with international  (phase I)
oil pollution (2F). TOR included as part  extensive mitigation  environrment
of EA report.                        measures are needed.    consultant
2.6 Oil waste management
2.6.1 Simple oil waste management    - to improve the overall   PEC in co-operation   Included in 1.1.1
procedures for handling and collection    management regime for   with international
of various types of oily waste at the  oil waste management.   environment
power plant (2G,/3C)                                         consultant
2.6.2 Establishment of oil spill trays at   - to ensure minimised  PEC - to be included  Included in
"hot spots" and site preparation for long-  impact from accidental   in final contract -  Ansaldo offer (see
term storage of oil polluted soil.   oil spill/long-terrn    Contractor                 2.4)
Handling of oil polluted soil and oily  storage of oil polluted
water during construction (2G2)      soil.
2.6.3 Establishment of additional    - to ensure that sufficient  PEC                2,000 USD
temporary storage capacity (40 in3) for   temporary storage
waste oil and oily waste (2 G3).     capacity is in place for
waste oil and oily waste.
2.7. Proposed external and internal noise  - to ensure compliance    PEC - to be included    445.000 USD
abatement measures for existing and  with World Bank         in final contract -
new power plant to be implemented    guidelines for ambient    Contractor         to be negotiated
(2H/21/3E/3F)                        and internal noise.
2.8 Overall cleaning of the existing  - to reduce fire and   PEC - to be included    Included in
power plant hall for removal of spilt oil  explosion risks   in final contract -    Ansaldo offer
and other flammable materials                                Contractor
(especially in ventilation ducts/outlets
and cable channels) (2L)
2.9  Stack height at existing and new  - to improve local air  PEC - to be included   Included in 1.1.1
power plant raised to 27 m to allow for   quality            in final contract -
compliance with World Bank ambient                           Contractor
air quality guidelines. (3A)
2.10 Updating of procedures for fuel oil  - to minimize accidental   PEC in co-operation
loading (2M)                         oil spill during fuel oil    with international
loading of storage tanks.  enviromnent
consultant
\SPP\80163901 Yaren Power Plant\Final Keponr"v.ec fin doc



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Proposed Mitigation Measures          Expected Benefit            Party            Estimated
(numbers in brackets refer to EA                             responsible for          costs
Summnary Table)                                             Implementation           (US $)
3. Institutional Mitigation Measures
(related to Dhahban Power Plant)
3.1 Environmental management of     - to ensure that proper  PEC                 to be negotiated
Dhahban power plant operations to be    measures are used for
included as part of the considered  environmental
Operational & Maintenance           management
Management Contract with an extemal
contractor (I B).
3.2 Improvement of working          - to ensure that working   PEC in co-operation   Included in 1.1.1
conditions in cooperation with expertise  conditions at the power   with intemational
from the Department of Public Health    plant is in accordance  environment
and Safety under the Ministry of Labour  with general standards    consultant
and Vocational Training (21/3G)
3.3. Preparation of a simple fire and  - to ensure that fast  PEC in co-operation   Included in 1.1.1
emergency plan (2J13H)              assistance and response    with international
is provided in case of  environment
accidents.             consultant
3.4 The construction company should    - to ensure that potential   PEC in co-operation   Included in 1.1.1
be instructed to use archaeological  archaeological values are  with international
"chance finding" procedures when    not damaged or          environment
encountering any archaeological     destroyed during        consultant
materials during construction work. (3I)  construction.
3.5 Consultancy assistance to secure  - that general        PEC in co-operation   Included in 1.1.1
proper implementation of environmental  environmental guidelines  with international
mitigation measures related to project    are observed during  environment
subcomponents concerning transmission  upgrading and        consultant
network upgrading. (4A, 4B)         construction activities
Environmental Monitoring Plan
Table E-5 provides a summary of the environmental monitoring plan for the proposed
project. The environmental monitoring plan is proposed to be divided into two
sections:
(a) Technical Assistance and Training for Monitoring Measures. Assistance would be
provided to PEC by a project-funded international environmental consultant to
support the monitoring measures. This would include a series of practical training
seminars for PEC management and Dhahban Power Plant staff on good
environmental practices, proper health and safety measures, and emergency
management procedures. This activity would include training of Yemeni personnel
in the collection, interpretation and use of data in air quality management
decisions.
PP\BO 163901 Ye, PoWer Plant\Fial Report\ev-exc.fin.doc



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
(b) Air Quality Monitoring Program. The project would support implementation of an
air quality monitoring program that includes activities for emission and ambient air
quality monitonrng. It would support the purchase of basic portable emission
monitoring equipment for measurement of stack gases at the rehabilitated and new
power plants and the installation of an ambient air quality monitonrng station. If
determined to be necessary on the basis of initial operational experience, additional
ambient air quality monitoring stations would be purchased. Technical training
would be provided by suppliers concerning the operation and maintenance of the
air quality monitoring equipment.
In addition, it is recommended that the EPC, in co-operation with PEC, seek funding
from a bilateral donor to support a prograin for the collection of measured baseline
data for air quality in the Sana'a region, which could be used for general environment
management purposes and for the design of anticipated future investments in the power
sector.
Table E-5    Environmental Monitoring Plan
Monitoring Components                 Expected Benefit            Party          Estimated
Responsible for        costs
Component           (US $)
1. Technical Assistance and Training for
Monitoring AMeasures
Overall environmental consultancy  - general follow-up on   PEC in co-         Included in
assistance. TOR included as part of EA    mitigation and monitoring   operation with  consultancy
report. Would include training of  plan on issues allocated for  international  support for
Yemeni personnel in collection,    PEC                      environment        Mitigation Plan
interpretation and use of data in air  - institutional support for   consultant  Implementation
quality management decisions.      PEC
2. Plant Specific Air Quality Pollution
Monitoring Program
Implementation of an air quality   - provision of air quality    PEC/EPC in co-  300,000 USD
monitoring program that includes   monitoring data to be used  operation with
activities for emission and ambient air   to support management of  international
quality monitoring. A proposal for a  the rehabilitated and new    environment
baseline air quality monitoring program.  power plants      consultant
TOR included as part of EA report.
Purchasing of basic portable emission
monitoring equipment for measurement
of stack gases at the rehabilitated and
new power plants is included along with
installation of an ambient air quality
monitoring station. Supplier provided
training is planned for Yemeni personnel
in the operation and maintenance of
equipment.
SPP0o1 639C0 Ymen Powet Plant\FnaI Repotreva-xec.fin doc



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Monitoring Components                 Expected Benefit            Party           Estimated
Responsible for        costs
Component           (US $)
3. Proposed Baseline Regional Air
Quality Monitoring Program
Subject to availability of independent    - provision of air quality    EPC in co-  300,000 USD (to
funding from a bilateral development    monitoring data as   operation with PEC   be sought from a
donor, it is recommended that a baseline  background data for future  and an international   bilateral donor)
air quality monitoring program be   energy and industrial    environment
undertaken for the Sana'a region to  projects. It would also  consultant
provide data for the planning and   support assessment of the
environmental assessment of future  emission impacts from
projects various sectors.           vehicles.
Implementation of an air quality
monitoring program that includes
activities for emission and ambient air
quality monitoring. Purchasing of basic
portable emission monitoring equipment
for measurement of stack gases at the
rehabilitated and new power plants is
included along with installation of an
ambient air quality monitoring station.
Supplier provided training is planned for
Yemeni personnel in the operation and
maintenance of equipment.
Environmental Management and Training
The overall capacity for environmental management within the PEC has during the
present study been assessed to be very limited. In order to support PEC within these
matters for the specific project, a biased approach for project specific assistance has
been selected. It is accordingly suggested:
-   to include specific consultancy assistance in relation to final development and
implementation of environmental management measures specifically related to the
Dhahban Power Plant operations (as listed in the mitigation plan), and
-   to apply in parallel this assistance for monitoring and quality assurance of the
implementation of the agreed structural environmental mitigation measures.
Besides this specific assistance arrangement, it has been agreed to include a specific
training component in the project as a part of the ordinary PEC management training.
The main objective of including an environmental component in the management
training programme is to provide the PEC planner, managers and management
candidates with a general knowledge of the environmental issues and working
environment aspects related to the operation of a power plant in Yemen.
'k80163901 Ynen  Powr Plnt\Final Reponr\mvxec.fin.doc



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Further it is the objective of the training component to provide the students with
information on practical approaches which can be addressed in order to implement
preventive actions and implement relevant precautions.
The present programme focuses on the "train-the-trainer" approach in order to ensure a
long-term perspective in the training activities aimed for both the PEC and EPC. In
addition to the focus of environmental sound operation of the power plants in Yemen
the training programme also focuses on the environmental impact assessment
procedures to be carried out in connection with planning and establishing new plants,
transmission lines and similar infrastructure projects.
An outline of the training programme is included in as a part of the EA.
'SPP\30163901 Yemen Power Planf'Fmal Reponr\vexec fin doc
_  r



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
SITE MAP - PROJECT AREA
80163901 Yanen Powa Plw%FiWa Repau\v-c,ec.findoc-
_ F_vS) _



-7-
'a
A
4
J
v
h,
SarWAirpM
P
--%Ji4(ef Asfal                                                     Al GIlsh
'A4nn
J                                                                                   At Mr
oi-                                                                            'A10
t
OMYAH                                                          J 1"ak  JrD R
A            N
/r
To
Ozy-yat a babi                                                                                                                                  f4
I AT
s,   N
-i A A
"Al' t                                                                                                                        x
/N                     J                4
Y.
10              I    M411
L
Wm,h                                                                           21,
X5                                                                   2  1
-tj              4        T   ,,         I' ---
7    11 tv / -r    f                                                 7
sh,u, I
c
S 77                                 ,K-W
Ar Rawdah'su6sta
Dhahban Power Station
\;-ADJIAL                                                                         t
JAL
A
r o-                                                                                                                                              N
- - - --------
Yb
PC                                                c
*Vdl                                   Al
Vrall                                                                                                                                   -4'X1 V.th3VSh;Y.h
2262
r iZail
,N  .c                                                                                      N
7'                                                                                                                                     J
Al HO
_h M;-i                          Alk     4.                                                                                        N
WSAT,..
A
O.                                                                                `11Z
bstation
Jbel
le
ekN
Aryst Xjr
_81 A
7v 10.                          Scale: 1:50,000
Aswed
Swtb Wat subdati-                                       Sonffi Ewt subsution



EXECUIVE SUMMARY
DRAFI SITE PLAN PREPARED BY ANSALDO ENERGIA
;PPSO163901 Yn Pc PImu\FinAi Rgpoft-exe-fmdoc
_ P- )7 -



l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        - T-1I"k
.   .    I |  S  tt  $  ! s    --  v  ^ l I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K.os I
0 -:__ g ! I g   X    cLtI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,   A   1, 4    >l  | ~~~~~~              ~__
_4;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
I ; aX * 4 9XX XHt X =E                                                                0   A=;So_ w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
bt IIW                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~luW     " INSSUT FEP5&     MT
___ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,_                         .  I    H  IT  O   1 OPE
't~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -"D  4 0'l- ISMF~E 
. R    Es  - ,;HS 
,   -_,   ,   -   --.   -w-  --  ..  , .; . .. , , L I wv. 8 uzx o o-- MttoolZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fc lms No -C   "IERS RE WW W ONI   r    B



