Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3132-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Sana'a Emergency Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 5, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3132-YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated August 3, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies for the power sector 
development program (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's agreement to the 
execution of the Program;
(C)
Parts A through D of the Project will be carried out by Public 
Electricity Corporation (PEC) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to PEC a portion of the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
Part E of the Project will be carried out by the Ministry of Electricity 
and Water (MEW); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and PEC;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan of PEC, as set forth in 
the environmental assessment dated April 20, 1998,  as such Plan may be updated from 
time to time by agreement between PEC and the Association, for implementation of the 
Project in accordance with appropriate environmental standards and guidelines, and 
includes an environmental mitigation plan, environmental monitoring plan, and 
institutional strengthening measures;
(b)
“MEW” means the Ministry of Electricity and Water;
(c)
“NWSA” means National Water and Sanitation Authority, established and 
operating under the Borrower's Law No. 13 of 1973;
(d)
"PEC" means the Public Electricity Corporation, established pursuant to 
its Statutes;
(e)
“PMU” means PEC’s Project Management Unit responsible for the management 
of procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing aspects of Parts A through D of 
the Project and referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and PEC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(g)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
June 11, 1997 and August 5, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association;
(h)
“PSPIU” means the Power Sector Program Implementation Unit responsible 
for the management of procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing aspects of 
Part E of the Project and referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
Page  3
(i)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
"Statutes" means Law No. 87 of 1995 of the Borrower pertaining to the 
establishment and operations of PEC, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(k)
“Steering Committee” means the committee headed by the Minister of the 
Ministry of Electricity and Water, with representation from the Ministry of Planning, 
PEC, the Ministry of Finance and the Civil Service Commission established pursuant to 
Prime Ministerial Decree for coordination of the Program; and
(l)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and PEC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR40,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two special deposit accounts (the PEC Special Account for Parts A through D of 
the Project, and the MEW Special Account for Part E of the Project) in its Central 
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
Page  4
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2009 and ending August 15, 
2038.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2018 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall: (i) cause PEC to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of PEC therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PEC to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance; and (ii) carry out Part E of the Project through 
MEW with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to Categories 1(a), 1(b), 2(a) and 3 of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement to PEC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and PEC under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following:  (i) repayment of the equivalent in terms of 
Yemeni Rials of the portion of the proceeds of the Credit so relent (such equivalent 
to be determined as of the respective date of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account) in approximately equal semiannual installments over a period 
of forty (40) years, including a grace period of ten (10) years; and (ii) an interest 
rate of 6.5% per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through MEW, shall carry out Part E of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be implemented in 
accordance with the Environmental Management Plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A through 
D of the Project shall be carried out by PEC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through MEW, establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of 
Part E of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through MEW:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than nine months after the end of fiscal years 1998 
and 1999, and six months 
after the end of each successive fiscal year, 
(A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts 
and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
Page  6
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
by December 31, 2001, replace the current desalination plant at Hiswa 
with a smaller desalination plant with capacity sufficient only for the supply of 
water to the Hiswa Power Plant; and
(b)
cause PEC to operate the current desalination plant at Hiswa at the 
minimum level necessary to maintain the equipment in good working condition pending 
the commissioning of the replacement desalination plant at Hiswa.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to 
ensure that PEC's accounts receivable from the Borrower's departments, public and 
mixed enterprises and cooperatives shall not, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, exceed the equivalent of three months of the average electricity 
sales revenues.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(b)
PEC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that PEC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of PEC or its ability to carry out the Project or its ability to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Page  7
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PEC or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall contitnue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and PEC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by PEC, 
and is legally binding upon PEC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and PEC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PEC in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
P. O. Box 175
Sana’a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address: 
Telex:
2266CENPLAN YE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  8
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Ahmed M. Sofan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Categpru
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Part A
   17,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
(2)
Works under Part C
   10,400,000
90%
(3)
Consultants' services
    2,300,000
100%
and training under
Parts A through D
(4)
Consultants' services
    1,300,000
100%
under Part E
(5)
Goods
    5,900,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost), and 90% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(6)
Operating Costs
      800,000
90%
for PSPIU
(7)
Refunding for
    1,200,000
Amounts due pur-
Project Preparation
suant to Section
Page  9
Advance
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
    1,700,000
TOTAL
   40,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the expenses incurred by PSPIU on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, comprising office 
rental, office supplies, local contractual staff salaries, social benefits, travel and 
other allowances, vehicle and office equipment operation and maintenance, utilities 
and communications expenses.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR4,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after June 14, 1998.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) expenditures for works under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent; (c) expenditures for Operating Costs; (d) 
expenditures for training; (e) expenditures for services under contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (f) 
expenditures for services under contracts for the employment of individuals costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reduce current load shedding and system 
losses, and provide an increased and reliable supply of power to the Sana’a region and 
the grid, while laying the foundation for the sound long term development of the power 
sector on the basis of financial viability and increased private sector participation 
in the management and ownership of sectoral operating units and assets.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
New 30 MW Diesel Generating Units
Design, delivery, erection, installation, testing, commissioning and operation 
of  an additional 30 MW of diesel generating sets at the Dhabhan Power Plant, 
including the provision of auxiliaries, common services, spare parts, and actions 
identified in the Environmental Management Plan.
Part B:
Rehabilitation of Existing 20 MW Diesel Generating Units
Repair and rehabilitation of the existing 20 MW diesel generating sets at the 
Dhahban Power Plant, including the provision of auxiliaries, common services, spare 
parts, and actions identified in the Environmental Management Plan.
Part C:
Sana’a Transmission and Subtransmission Systems
Page  10
Debottlenecking and reinforcing the Sana’a transmission and subtransmission 
systems through expansion of the Asser substation, by connecting into the station the 
132kV/33kV double circuit Dhamar-Amran line, establishing a 132kV double bus 
reliability, adding a 60 @ MVA transformer, expanding the 33kV switchgear with 3 bus 
sections, and adding more 33kV outgoing feeder lines, and additional transformer 
capacity at several substations to provide adequate 33kV interconnection capacity 
between Dhahban and the Asser substation, to accommodate the Dhahban peaking capacity 
and provide for reliable supply of the Sana’a load.
Part D:
Project and Operational Management
1.
Provision of technical assistance to PEC for Project supervision and inspection, 
progress evaluation, take-over approval and certification, supervision of works and 
equipment supply.
2.
Provision of assistance for operation and maintenance of the Dhahban Power 
Plant.
3.
Implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and associated training.
Part E:
Long Term Sector Planning
1.
Preparation of a master plan for long term investment to expand electric power 
generation and transmission and to utilize domestic natural gas for generation.
2.
Carrying out of an institutional and organizational study to design a power 
sector reform program, and establishment of a Power Sector Program Implementation Unit 
to implement such program.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 
and in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 
of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
Page  11
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less 
than $500,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,750,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, and costing 
$500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first three contracts for works and goods, each contract for 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and each contract for 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  12
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following 
provisions of Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraphs 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
Page  13
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Schedule
1.
(a)
For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination of the Project and 
execution of the Program, the Borrower shall continue to maintain the Steering 
Committee.
(b)
For the purpose of ensuring the proper execution of the Program and Part 
E of the Project, the Borrower shall by March 31, 1999 complete the staffing of the 
PSPIU satisfactory to the Association, and thereafter maintain the PSPIU with 
organization, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 1999, a plan for a new tariff 
structure, tariff schedule, and tariff setting mechanism;
(b)
review with the Association, by September 30, 1999, the report referred 
to in sub-paragraph (a) above, and taking the Association’s comments thereon into 
account, the Borrower shall carry out said plan for the new tariff program;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 1999, the design of an 
institutional and organizational reform program for the power sector, based on the 
Program, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Association, by December 31, 1999, the report referred to 
in sub-paragraph (a) above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reform program and the Association's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of the PEC Special 
Account Categories 1(a), 1(b), 2(a) and 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; in the case of the MEW Special Account Categories 2(b) 
and 4 set forth in said table.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means with respect to the PEC Special 
Account, an amount equivalent to $3,000,000; and with respect to the MEW Special 
Account, an amount equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation with respect to the PEC Special Account shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,500,000 and with respect to the MEW Special Account to an amount 
Page  14
equivalent to $200,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Page  15
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the respective Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the respective Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
