Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3132-YEM
Project Agreement
(Sana'a Emergency Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
Dated October 5, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3132-YEM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and PUBLIC ELECTRICITY CORPORATION (PEC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Yemen (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR40,600,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
PEC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and PEC a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to PEC on terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS PEC in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PEC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts A through D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A 
through D of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and PEC shall otherwise agree, PEC shall carry out Parts 
A through D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PEC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Parts A through D of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, PEC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
PEC, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with PEC on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. PEC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PEC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) PEC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
PEC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PEC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PEC
Section 3.01. PEC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
Page  3
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PEC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and engineering practices.
Section 3.03. PEC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. PEC shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PEC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Parts A through D of the Project.
(b)
PEC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, income 
statements, statements of sources and applications of 
funds and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with generally 
accepted auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than nine months after the end of fiscal years 1998 and 
1999, and six months 
after the end of each successive fiscal year, 
(A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; provided, 
however, that 
the auditors report for fiscal year 1997 shall be furnished by 
March 
31, 1999; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, except as may otherwise be agreed with the 
Association: (i) for fiscal year 1999, produce total revenues equivalent to not less 
than the sum of its (x) total operating expenses and (y) interest expenses and other 
charges on debt which are normally chargeable to operations; (ii) produce funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not less than 5% for fiscal year 2000, 10% for fiscal 
year 2001, and, for each of the following fiscal years, 15% of the annual average of 
the Borrower's capital expenditures incurred (or expected to be incurred) during such 
year, the preceding fiscal year and the following fiscal year; and (iii) not incur a 
debt, unless a reasonable forecast of its estimated funds from internal sources during 
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times PEC’s estimated debt 
service requirements in such year on all its debt, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
By September 30 of each year, on the basis of forecasts prepared by PEC 
and satisfactory to the Association, PEC shall review with the Association its 
proposed investment program for the following year, together with its ability to meet 
the requirements stated in paragraph (a) of this Section.  If any such review shows 
that PEC would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a), PEC shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments in 
the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
Page  4
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “total revenues” means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net 
non-operating income.
(ii)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
(iii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to: 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation based on 
the average current gross value 
of PEC’s fixed assets in operation, or 
other basis acceptable to the 
Association, but excluding 
interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of PEC’s fixed assets in operation 
shall be 
calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of 
PEC’s fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of 
the fiscal year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the 
Association.
(vi)
The term "funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits, net non-operating income and any reduction 
in working capital 
other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and 
other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows, other than capital 
expenditures.
(vii)
The term "working capital other than cash” means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each 
fiscal year.
(viii) The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and prepaid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the 
next fiscal year.
(ix)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
services requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes and dividends.
(x)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of PEC maturing by its 
terms more than 
one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
Page  5
(xi)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(xii)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(xiii)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by PEC 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Association and PEC accept as reasonable 
and as to which the Association 
has notified PEC of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred 
since such notification 
which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future 
to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating results of PEC.
(xiv)
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations.
(xv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. PEC shall take all measures necessary on its part to ensure that 
its accounts receivable from all consumers shall not exceed the equivalent of three 
(3) months of average electricity sales.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
PEC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify PEC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
Page  6
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For PUBLIC ELECTRICITY CORPORATION:
P.O. Box 178
Sana'a
Cable address: 
Telex:
ALKAHRABA
2619 YGEC-
Sana’a
YEYE
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PEC or by PEC 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Managing Director, or by such other person or persons as PEC shall 
designate in writing, and PEC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
By /s/ Ahmed M. Sofan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
Page  7
1.
PEC shall, by March 31, 1999:
(a)
ensure that the PMU is established with staffing and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
ensure that the contract for Project supervision consulting services has 
been awarded in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to the Credit Agreement and 
has entered into effect.
2.
(a)
PEC shall, by March 31, 1999, establish the Dhabhan Power Plant as a 
separate cost center, with separate accounting and financial management systems 
acceptable to the Association.
(b)
The contract for operation and maintenance of the Dhabhan Power Plant 
between PEC and a qualified private company shall have become effective by April 30, 
1999, on terms satisfactory to the Association.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall submit to the Association for its review by March 1, 
1999 a proposed power and gas master plan, and complete by March 31, 1999 said power 
and gas master plan, taking the comments of the Association into account; and
(b)
based upon said power and gas master plan, by September 30, 1999, the 
Borrower shall determine future investment in the next large power plant, together 
with domestic natural gas production and distribution facilities to supply that power 
plant.
4.
PEC shall implement the Environmental Management Plan, which shall include among 
the mitigation actions that:
(a)
PEC shall at all times use light diesel-grade 2 fuel at the Dhabhan Power 
Plant which would generally have the following characteristics:
a maximum sulfur content of 0.2% a maximum ash content of 0.01% a Cetane index of at 
least 52
(b)
PEC shall by December 31, 1999 install a system satisfactory to the 
Association for the collection and disposal of oil and polluted wastewater at the 
Dhabhan Power Plant which possesses minimal risk for the contamination of groundwater.
5.
PEC shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by January 1, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
