             Document of
          The World Bank




                                      Report No: 34608

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
        (PPFI-Q0480 IDA-31320)

                ON A

               CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 40.4 MILLION

               TO THE

        REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

               FOR A

 SANA'A EMERGENCY POWER PROJECT




           December 8, 2005

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective October 2005)

                               Currency Unit = Yemeni Riyal
                        YR 135 (at appraisal) = US$ 1
                                       US$ 1 = YR 190 (at closure)

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

bbl    billion barel
DPP    Dhaban Power Plant
DSCR   Debt Service Coverage Ratio
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP    Environment Mitigation Plan
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
GOY    Government of Yemen
GWh    Gigawatt Hour
HFO    Heavy Fuel Oil
I/O    Institutional and Organizational
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
IDA    International Development Association
IMF    International Monetary Fund
IPP    Independent Power Producer
IRR    Internal Rate of Return
kV     Kilovolt
kWh    Kilowatt Hour
MCR    Maximum Continuous Rating
MEW    Ministry of Electricity and Water
MIS    Management Information System
MOE    Ministry of Electricity
MT     Metric Ton
MTR    mid-term review
MW     Megawatt
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
NPV    Net Present Value
O&M    Operation and maintenance
PAD    Project Appraisal Documents
PDOs   Project Development Objectives
PDRY   People Democratic Republic of Yemen
PEC    Public Electricity Corporation
PMU    Project Management Unit
PPF    Project Preparation Facility

PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSDS   Power Sector Development Strategy
PSPIU  Power Sector Project Implementation Unit
SEPP   Sana'a Emergency Power Project
SFR    Self Financing Ratio
TA     Technical Assistance
YPC    Yemen Petroleum Corporation
YR     Yemeni Rial



                            Vice President:    Christiaan Poortman
                          Country Director     Emmanuel Mbi
                            Sector Director    Hossein Razavi
                        Task Team Leader:      Somin Mukherji

                                  YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
                        SANA'A EMERGENCY POWER PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              39
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            40
Annex 10. Financial Performance of PEC                                           42

Project ID: P050530                                                  Project Name: RY-SANA'A EMERGENCY POWER
Team Leader: Somin Mukherji                                          TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: December 8, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: RY-SANA'A EMERGENCY POWER                                L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0480; IDA-31320
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (90%); Central government administration (10%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (S); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/16/1997                                     Effective: 02/02/1999                01/14/1999
     Appraisal: 05/25/1998                                         MTR: 01/01/2001                  06/27/2001
      Approval: 09/24/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 04/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN/PUBLIC ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
                                           (PEC)/MEW
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:                 Jonathan D. Walters                            Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk
Team Leader at ICR:             Somin Mukherji                                 Robert Mertz
ICR Primary Author:             Sunil W. Mathrani


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) are to:

1. relieve critical supply constraints and meet the growing demand for a reliable and adequate power
    supply, particularly in Sana'a, until a master plan can be designed and implemented for further
    least-cost system expansion; and
2. lay the foundation for the development and reform of the power sector in an economically and
    environmentally sustainable manner, and with increased participation of the private sector.

As stated in the PAD, "the project has been termed as an "emergency" project by the Government of Yemen
(GOY) because of the urgent nature of the power supply problems and their adverse social and economic
impacts. The use of the term "emergency" in this project is not as specified under the World Bank's
"Operational Policies."

The objective of reducing power supply bottlenecks was extremely relevant and a high priority, given the
inability of the Public Electricity Corporation (PEC), to meet peak demand in the Sana'a area. Although
power sector reforms of a legal, institutional, organizational and financial nature were also very important,
given the sector weaknesses (high energy losses, lax commercial practices, poor maintenance, low tariffs,
inadequate planning etc), the project's physical objective carried more weight.

The imprecise wording of the second objective as regards environmental matters is interpreted here to mean
that the project would assist in bringing about a transition from the use of oil to gas for power generation.
The objective of introducing private players in the sector was consistent with global trends at that time, but
with hindsight appears to have been overambitious and unrealistic, given the small size of the Yemeni
power system, the prevailing investment climate and geopolitical conditions. Furthermore, changes in the
international electricity industry since the project was appraised implied that the relevance of seeking
private participation had considerably diminished.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were not revised at the time the project was `restructured'
following the mid-term review (MTR) in July 2001. A formal project restructuring with a note informing
the Bank's EDs was not felt to be necessary since the modifications were relatively minor both in scope and
value.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was intended to accomplish the above objectives by supporting an investment component to:
1.   install an additional 30MW of power generation at the existing Dhaban Power Plant (DPP) on the
    outskirts of Sana'a;
2. rehabilitate the existing 20MW of existing diesel generators at that site;
3. debottleneck and reinforce the 132-kV/33-kV transmission and 33-kV/11-kV subtransmission systems;
    and
4. mitigate environmental impacts on air and water quality.

The project also comprised a technical assistance component to design and launch the power sector reform
program by:
1. establishing DPP as a separate cost center with autonomous management under a private sector
    operation and maintenance (O&M) contract;
2. preparing a master plan for long-term expansion of the power sector and utilization of domestic natural
    gas reserves; and
3. designing and starting the implementation of a comprehensive reform of the power sector.

This fundamental reform program which is a central element of the project was to have been designed



                                                    - 2 -

through an Institutional and Organizational Study (I/O study), which would cover, inter alia: (i) separating
the institutional responsibilities in the sector for policy-making, regulation and utility operations; (ii)
establishing a new legal framework consistent with these changes; (iii) restructuring and corporatizing
PEC along functional lines; (iv) modernizing and replacing, as needed, PEC's financial management
accounting and budgeting systems, and training of PEC personnel; (v) re-engineering PEC's staffing; (vi)
introducing a new tariff structure, schedule and tariff setting mechanism; and (vii) providing an adequate
environment for future private sector participation in the development of the energy sector.

Progress in achieving these objectives was to be monitored and evaluated on the basis of the indicators
included in Annex 1. However, the indicators were not precisely defined and there was little baseline data
provided in the PAD for satisfactory monitoring of performance indicators.

3.4 Revised Components:
Following the MTR, it was agreed (in December 2001) that the project should be revised and over
US$8million of available funds (due to cost savings and the decline of the US Dollar against the SDR) be
reallocated to: (a) better reflect the actual cost of the various project components; (b) finance the
procurement of goods urgently required for reduction of PEC's grid system losses; and (c) finance advisory
services for a proposed 400MW gas-fired power plant at Marib (Independent Power Producer-IPP).

In addition, the legal amendments to the DCA took into account the slow progress made on implementation
of several dated actions and revised them in line with realistic target dates. In view of PEC's continued
unsatisfactory financial performance, the financial covenants were revised so that from FY99 to FY02,
PEC would be merely required to comply with a break-even covenant instead of the previous self-financing
ratio. However, the latter was retained at 5% for FY03, and 10% from FY04 onwards.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There were many weaknesses in the project design, as described in the ensuing paragraphs.

    l The technical choice of equipment for the DPP-2 plant and its characteristics were inappropriate.
        There was confusion over whether the plant would be used for base or peak load supply and
        ultimately the selected medium-speed engines were not optimal for either role. The PAD suggests it
        would be a peaking plant, but does not provide adequate detail to demonstrate why gas turbines
        (which would probably have been more appropriate, even if operating initially on liquid fuel), were
        rejected and medium-speed diesels selected instead. Alternatively, for peaking use, high-speed
        diesels may also have been a cheaper option. Verification of 1998 gas turbine equipment costs as
        part of preparation of this ICR indicates that the statement in the PAD that the 6X5 MW
        medium-speed diesel plant was the least-cost supply solution, is incorrect, given the lower capital
        costs of gas turbines.

    l Given the urgency of easing the supply shortage, it would have been preferable for PEC to opt for
        a leasing contract of mobile generators (barge or skid-mounted) such as other utilities resort to in
        times of crisis. This could have brought faster relief from the power shortages and covered supply
        needs prior to the development of a larger gas rather than diesel-fired power plant. Alternatively,
        an open-cycle gas turbine plant (using diesel initially, but for conversion to gas later), on a
        lease-operate-transfer basis could have also provided a rapid solution to the shortages. The Bank
        does not appear to have explored these options with GOY while preparing the project.

    l The overall size of the new DPP-2 plant was insufficient to eliminate load shedding ­ the PAD
        itself states that about 150MW of additional capacity were required at that time, but that GOY had



                                                     - 3 -

        decided to proceed with a 30MW plant. It is unclear why the Bank decided to include financing in
        the Credit for a sub-optimal component whose technical characteristics had already been finalized
        a substantial time before appraisal.

   l An O&M contract for the DPP with a foreign firm was envisaged as the first step in improving
        PEC's performance. However, at that point there was no basis for such a contract since the
        Dhaban plant was an integral part of PEC and first needed to be separated from the latter in an
        organizational, financial and operational sense, before any contract could be negotiated with an
        outside party to take over and run it on PEC's behalf. This experimental idea was also premised on
        the belief that there would be interest from foreign utilities in operating such a small plant
        (<50MW) in a country with no prior involvement of the private sector in public utility services.
        Ultimately, only one party submitted a responsive bid and the Bank put considerable pressure on
        GOY to accept this offer.

   l The financial covenants negotiated with PEC and GOY were very unrealistic.                 They were
        predicated upon the elimination of fuel and debt service subsidies to PEC from 1999 onwards
        under an IMF program, and an over-optimistic belief that the financial situation of the
        near-bankrupt PEC could be turned around in just two years. Yet the project contained no action
        plan to help bring this about.

   l PEC was only set up in 1991, following the merger of the two utilities in the aftermath of the
        unification of Yemen. As such, the Sana'a Emergency Power Project (SEPP) was the first Bank
        project with the new entity, (although there had been earlier projects with its predecessor
        organizations). Insufficient attention was given to capacity building in PEC and no provision was
        made in the project for technical assistance (TA) to implement the recommendations of the I/O
        Study relating to PEC's institutional strengthening. Much more attention should have been given
        to PEC's training needs and a technical assistance to finance an appropriate `twinning'
        arrangement with a well run foreign utility could have been included in the project.

   l Despite the high level of PEC's energy losses due to poor technical and commercial practices, the
        project did not address the issue of loss reduction. Yet reducing losses is a quick and relatively
        cheap way to improve power supply.

   l There was a marked lack of realism about the feasibility of and time required to undertake major
        institutional reforms of the power sector in a rather short time frame. In addition, the
        appropriateness of unbundling such a small system was taken as a given and the difficult
        investment climate for attracting investors was overlooked.

   l Monitoring indicators and the baseline for project performance were ill-defined or non-existent.
        There were no provisions made for improving data collection necessary for better monitoring
        during implementation.

Overall the project preparation and appraisal process by the Bank was not sufficiently thorough and quality
at entry is assessed as unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project partially achieved its stated objectives. The overall project outcome is marginally satisfactory



                                                     - 4 -

because the investments funded under the project helped to reduce the degree of load shedding in Sana'a,
improved system reliability and gave rise to significant economic benefits as a result. The economic rate of
return on the project has been estimated at about 10% (Annex 3).

The investments in transmission and distribution have been very valuable in bringing additional power to
consumers. In practice, transmission investments, which were not initially envisaged at appraisal, have
made a much bigger contribution to alleviating power shortages in Sana'a than the generation investments.
Without these transmission investments, which permit about 700 GWh of electricity produced at the
Hizyaz power plant to be transmitted to Sana'a, the degree of load shedding would have been far worse.
There has also been significant progress in reducing PEC's overall energy losses from 40% to 33% and the
quality of service to consumers has improved, as confirmed by the beneficiary survey carried out as part of
the independent Impact Assessment Study (Annexes 8 and 9). Over a third of those surveyed expressed a
willingness to pay more for better electricity supply with less interruptions.

The new power plant (DPP-2), made a lesser contribution than expected, due to technical problems that
have prevented it from operating at nameplate capacity, while the rehabilitation of DPP-1 has only been
partially completed. At the time of the completion mission, the total incremental generation capacity
resulting from the project was about 35MW (30MW of total new capacity at DPP-2 plus Al Qa'a and
5MW rehabilitated at DPP-1). This will rise to about 40MW in mid 2006, once the remaining two units at
DPP-1 are rehabilitated.

Progress in sector reforms has been rather limited and PEC remains a weak entity, both operationally and
financially. Little has been undertaken in the way of organizational changes or operational practices to
commercialize and corporatize PEC, although the necessary preparatory work was carried out under the
project. The project did not succeed in introducing private sector participation. However, with hindsight it
should be recognized that as with numerous other projects dating from that era, the latter was an unrealistic
expectation that reflected the trends within the Bank during the 1990s and did not take sufficient account of
the ground realities in Yemen.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Installation of a new power plant at Dhaban: The centerpiece of the project's investment program was the
construction of 30MW (5X6 MW) of medium-speed diesel generating units (DPP-2) next to the existing
Dhaban-1 plant. The plant was built under a supply and erect contract for about US$19.0 million and
went into service in mid-2000, easing the shortage of power in Sana'a. Since commissioning DPP-2 has
produced over 500 GWh of electricity. Due to PEC's continuing lack of adequate generation capacity, this
plant is used for meeting baseload and it will continue to play a crucial role in serving demand in Sana'a at
least until 2008, and probably beyond.

However, PEC has not yet formally taken it over because of various technical deficiencies that prevented
the plant from operating on a sustained basis without unplanned shutdowns. These problems have been
rectified with the exception of cavitation in the fuel injection system which in turn gives rise to excessive
smoke emissions. It is expected that the equipment supplier will be able to remedy this problem by end
2005. Noise levels within the powerhouse are unacceptably high but there are no feasible remedies
available. PEC management has issued a notice to plant staff instructing them to strictly observe the use of
ear protection devices when working inside the plant. Noise level measurements taken at the perimeter wall
of the plant compound indicate that these are within acceptable norms.

The engines at DPP-2 failed to attain a Maximum Continuous Rating (MCR) of 6MW each as guaranteed
by the supplier, thereby resulting in a total plant output of about 25MW instead of the contracted 30MW.



                                                     - 5 -

Hence, to make up for the shortfall, the engine manufacturer supplied, installed and commissioned an
additional 5MW diesel generator set at no cost to PEC at the Al-Qa'a Power Station. This unit has been in
operation since June 2004 and has not experienced any technical problems. However, there are some
environmental and safety mitigation measures still to be completed at this site in order to reduce the
excessive noise level in the plant and the surrounding residential area. An EIA was carried out under the
project and financing the remedial measures is currently under consideration of the Ministry of
Electricity/Public Electricity Coperation (MOE/PEC).

This component is assessed as marginally satisfactory.

Rehabilitation of the existing Dhaban Plant (DPP-1).         This component, consisting of the repair and
rehabilitation of the existing 4X5 MW generators, was designed to increase their capacity from a total of
only 8MW to 18MW at a cost of about US$1.0million. Implementation was badly delayed due to the fact
that the work was to have been carried out as part of the O&M contract for the plant, which suffered major
problems and was terminated before the rehabilitation could begin. Fresh bids had to be sought for a new
firm to carry out the work; contract negotiations were protracted; and, mobilization delays further
exacerbated the slippage, with the result that by the time of Credit closure, this project component remained
incomplete.

At the time of the completion mission, two of the four units had been rehabilitated and were operating
satisfactorily. Rehabilitation work for the remaining two units is expected to be completed by mid-2006 and
will be undertaken by PEC staff under the supervision of consultants from the manufacturer, with GOY
funding. The necessary spares were financed under the Credit and have already been delivered to the site.
The Environmental mitigation measures recommended by the EIA also need to be implemented. Financing
of the remedial measures is currently under consideration by MOE/PEC.

This component is rated unsatisfactory since the expected output materialized partially.

Operations & Maintenance Contract for Dhaban Power Plant: The initial project design envisaged that
both DPP-1&2 would be segregated financially and operationally from the rest of PEC and that a private
operator would be selected to rehabilitate, operate and maintain them under a contract that would be
eligible for IDA financing. The PAD attaches considerable weight to this measure and presents it as a key
sectoral reform. After a lengthy, expensive and difficult procurement and contracting process, PEC signed
with the sole party that submitted an offer.         However, the contractor failed to provide qualified
English-speaking staff and despite several formal requests from PEC to replace them, no action was taken.
PEC therefore initiated contract termination proceedings, which were not contested and the contractor
withdrew in mid-2002. The O&M contract thus came to an end within a few months of its start without
any significant work having been done. As a result, over three years were lost without any rehabilitation
work commencing at DPP-1, during a period when PEC was very short of generation capacity. After the
contract was terminated, it was agreed that PEC should use the IDA Credit to procure the necessary spares
to rehabilitate DPP-1 and hire consultants from diesel engine manufacturers to carry out the work in
conjunction with its own staff. Starting afresh added to the delays and as a result rehabilitation works
could start in 2004. Not only did the `experiment' to bring in a private O&M contractor fail, but it also
absorbed an inordinate amount of time and effort by PEC management and Bank staff, with detrimental
effects on other aspects of the project.

There was no tangible output from this component and it is rated unsatisfactory.

Asser Substation Expansion.       This important 132/33-kV substation was a significant bottleneck to


                                                     - 6 -

transmitting power to Sana'a. Physical implementation of this component was completed in June 2004 at a
cost of about US$5.6million. A Systems Control and Data Acquisition system was procured within the
scope of the above contract to link the substation to the PEC Control Center. The works were completed
satisfactorily and the system is now operational. Substantial economic benefits can be attributed to this
component because without it, incremental generation capacity would not have been able to be utilized
fully.

The output is assessed to be satisfactory.

33/15/11-kV Sub-transmission Works. The scope of works consisted of the construction of four new
substations and extension of six existing substations along with installation of other ancillary equipment for
an amount of about US$6.1million. Due to the bankruptcy of the contractor at a late stage in construction,
the contract was terminated. PEC negotiated with the sub-contractors for the delivery of remaining
materials, and completed the works. This resulted in an overall delay of ten months. These works are
completed now and the sub-stations are in service, helping to stabilize the power supply in the Sana'a area.
The Impact Evaluation Study carried out measurements of voltage levels on the 11-kV system around
Sana'a and found them to be satisfactory.

The component is rated as highly satisfactory.

33/11-kV Distribution Lines & Cables. Conductors, insulators, clamps, line accessories, wooden poles etc.
to a value of about US$2.9million were procured under this component. PEC used these materials to
reinforce the distribution network in Sana'a in accordance with the Distribution Master Plan. Some of the
materials have also been used by PEC to build a new 33-kV line and substation to connect the newly-built
100MW power station at Hizyaz (about 18 km south of Sana'a) to Sana'a, thereby making a very
important contribution to easing the power shortages in the capital.

This component is considered to be highly satisfactory.

Advisory Services for IPP Development. At the time of the MTR, it was decided to earmark Credit funds
for advisory services for a 400MW gas-fired IPP at Marib gas field. However, due to delays arising from
GOY's indecision about proceeding with the IPP and the availability of alternative funds, it proved
unnecessary to utilize the IDA Credit for this purpose. The component was dropped and the savings
generated were reallocated for procurement of materials related to loss reduction.

Electricity Loss reduction.       PEC procured meters, capacitors and conductors valued at about
US$5.3million for reducing technical losses. In addition, over the past few years, PEC (with appropriate
support from the Ministry of Electricity) has introduced special measures to reduce non-technical losses as
well. As a result, electricity distribution losses reduced from 32% in 1999 to 25% in 2004, making a
valuable contribution to improving PEC's financial position. Total system losses (including generation and
transmission) remain unacceptably high at 33% in 2004, although this is a significant improvement
compared to 40% at the time of project appraisal in 1998.

The results to date indicate that the output from this component is satisfactory.

Institutional & Organizational Study: The study was satisfactorily completed, albeit with a substantial
delay compared to initial expectations. With hindsight, it is apparent that the timetable for such a
wide-ranging study with many discrete but interdependent modules was unrealistic and did not allow
sufficient time for review and comments by both the Yemeni steering committee and the Bank. In addition,


                                                     - 7 -

the assignment was underbudgeted, so the contract did not make adequate provision for the design of a
financial management information system or a fully-fledged tariff study, as was expected at appraisal.

In mid-2001, the Cabinet approved a strategy for reforming the power sector that had been proposed by the
I/O study. The main elements of the adopted strategy, which were to be implemented over a period of five
years call for:

l A first phase of two years to create a new power sector structure with (i) a new legal framework; (ii)
    Corporatization of PEC or its successor entities; (iii) creation of the regulatory system; and (iv)
    restructuring, commercialization, and creation of a single buyer.
l A second phase consisting of: (i) functional separation (G, T+D); (ii) introduction of management
    contracts; (ii) further industry restructuring; (iii) regulatory improvements, and (iv) introduction of
    limited retail competition.
l The final phase was to comprise: (i) creation of an independent single buyer; (ii) opening up the market
    for competition; (iii) further regulatory improvement, and (iv) wholesale competition in generation.

However, the above institutional reforms have not been acted upon, partly because there is insufficient
political will to introduce difficult reforms and because the capacity of PEC and MOE to initiate and
implement such reforms is also limited. In addition, disappointing international experience that has come to
light in recent years and changing perceptions about the value of unbundling of small utilities have raised
doubts about the merits of proceeding.

One of the significant contributions of the I/O study was the drafting of an electricity law, which is
currently being prepared for submission to the Cabinet prior to being presented to the Parliament for
debate. The diagnosis of PEC's weaknesses provides a basis for the design of a program of capacity
building that is envisaged as a component of the follow-on IDA project currently under preparation.

The component is rated marginally satisfactory.

Gas/Power Master Plan: System planning was virtually non-existent in PEC prior to this project. This is
illustrated by the fact that no master plan was available in the mid-1990s and the fact that PEC found itself
in 1997 confronted by a substantial shortfall in generating capacity to meet demand as a result of a failure
to forecast, plan, and invest in capacity increments in a regular and timely manner. The master plan was
therefore a valuable activity that enabled PEC and GOY to analyze sector development options in a
systematic manner. It demonstrated that the least-cost sequence of generation investments consisted of a
series of single-cycle gas turbines located close to the Marib gas field. At the time of the MTR, the Bank
was requested to assist with a 100MW GT project at Marib on a fast track basis, but declined due to inter
alia, a lack of internal consensus on the preferred lending instrument, project vehicle and site for the plant.

Major delays in coming to closure on gasfield development (an LNG export scheme and/or domestic
pipeline, power plants etc) has forced PEC to proceed with the construction of numerous additional
diesel-based generation plants totaling 180MW that were not envisaged in the master plan. A further
60MW of steam generation capacity (using HFO) will also be brought into service in Aden in 2006, but
even this will be insufficient to eliminate shortages. The projected date for the start of the first 339MW
gas-fired power plant at Marib is now early 2008, compared to 2002, when the masterplan was under
preparation. Despite the recent additions to diesel generation capacity by PEC, the country continues to
suffer an excessive degree of power outages varying from 100-160MW daily during peak times, or about
20% of peak demand.




                                                      - 8 -

This component is assessed as satisfactory.

Desalination plant at Hiswa: Although not included in the project for IDA financing, the DCA obligated
GOY to replace this plant because of the financial burden it imposed on PEC. Due to plant overcapacity,
PEC tried unsuccessfully to convert the surplus desalinated water into potable water for sale in the local
market. Eventually a decision was made to scrap it and procure a small new plant just sufficient to supply
the needs of the power plant. The procurement process has been inordinately delayed, but the project is now
proceeding and the new desalination plant is expected to be commissioned in early 2006.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis in the PAD estimated the project's EIRR to be 14%. This result depended heavily
on fuel prices remaining at about $24/bbl. Benefits were valued at projected tariffs of UScents7.5/kWh.
No sensitivity analysis of the impact of higher oil prices was carried out. In reality, tariffs have not
attained this level (they have varied between 6 to 7 UScents/kWh since 2000), but more significantly, oil
prices have risen much beyond the assumed level. At current and projected oil prices, the EIRR is negative,
unless benefits are valued at UScents12/kWh or more.

For consumers, the value of electricity in economic terms is at least equal to what it would cost to produce
using international prices. Oil consumed in Yemen to produce electricity has an opportunity cost in terms
of foregone export sales equivalent to the spot price in the Arabian Gulf market. The fuel alone required to
generate power at US$50/barrel (WB forecast of the average 2005 crude oil price) works out to
USc10/kWh. When capital costs and maintenance are included, the full economic cost of generation is at
least USc13/kWh, which has been used as a proxy measure of benefits in the ex-post estimate of the EIRR
on the project. On this basis, the EIRR was calculated to be slightly above 10%. Details of the analysis
and the assumptions used are given in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
PEC's finances remained weak throughout the project implementation period and it is totally dependent on
budgetary support from GOY for all its in vestment needs and much of its day-to-day operations. Details
of PEC's financial performance since 1999 showing appraisal forecast vs. actuals are given in Annex 10.

Since the unification of Yemen in 1990, the Government has always subsidized PEC's operations, thus
providing little incentive for PEC to perform more efficiently and productively. GOY's average contribution
to the sector over the past decade has exceeded US$50million annual1y and there is little prospect of any
reduction in this support until PEC can reduce its fuel costs sharply after the commissioning of new large
gas-fired power plants in 2008-09.

In the past few years, GOY preferred to compensate PEC by overcharging YPC for high-sulfur, heavy fuel
oil (HFO) supplied to PEC, rather than permit PEC to obtain supplies in the international market. As a
result, PEC received a fixed `refund' of YR6 billion annually from GOY, while the price of HFO was set at
YR25/liter (about US$140/ton). However, since the recent sharp rise in international oil prices, PEC is
fully compensated by GOY for any additional cost incurred by it for HFO costing over YR25/liter. This
arrangement is expected to remain in place until 2008 when PEC will able to use gas for power generation
instead of HFO.

Fuel costs account for about 70% of PEC operating costs, but these costs are not passed on to consumers
due to GOY's unwillingness to raise tariffs. High overall system losses (over 30%) mean that a third of all
electricity produced is not paid for. The revenue shortfall is exacerbated by the difficulty in obtaining
payment from public sector bodies, with the result that PEC's accounts receivable have always exceeded



                                                    - 9 -

the covenanted level of three months' of annual electricity sales. PEC continues to carry on its books
receivables that need to be written off, such as those from dead customers and former PDRY government
agencies.

Faced with PEC's insolvency, GOY decided on a major conversion of PEC's accumulated debts to equity
in 2002 and in addition, granted it a debt-service moratorium until 2008. As a consequence of the debt to
equity conversion of all PEC loans prior to 2001, amounting to about YR 41 billion (about US$236
million), PEC is able to meet IDA's financial covenant on debt service coverage ratio (DSCR), although
this has been rendered meaningless by the above conversion. However, because of increasing HFO prices
and until recently its inability to write-off bad/uncollectible debts, PEC was never able to comply with
either the break even covenant or the accounts receivable covenant.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a modest positive impact on the institutional development of PEC.

The I/O Study carried out a good diagnosis of PEC's internal weaknesses and made proposals for
addressing them; some of these have already begun to be implemented by PEC management, but the project
could have made a much more substantial impact if it had included financing for a comprehensive
strengthening program of PEC that could have emerged from the I/O study. Capacity building of PEC will
be given much greater importance under the forthcoming IDA Power Sector Project.

Nevertheless, the project has contributed to some improvements in financial and accounting practices
during past five years, including the use of a financial model for forecasting. Billing and payroll have both
been computerized and a fixed asset register set up. There has been a considerable reduction in delays in
finalizing PEC's annual accounts, although these are still taking over six months after the FY year-end to
be finalized. A hiring freeze has helped to reduce the degree of overstaffing in PEC. Customer care centers
have been set up to improve consumer service. Considerable experience in diesel plant maintenance was
acquired by DPP staff through working with the equipment supplier on the DPP-2 technical problems
during 2000-05. The power/gas masterplan also contributed to some capacity building in PEC's planning
department, several staff of which were trained in the use of the WASP power system modeling and
simulation tools.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As discussed in the section on Quality at Entry, the project had several technical design errors such as the
inappropriate type and size of the engines installed in DPP-2. In addition, the powerhouse for DPP-2 turned
out to be too small and this has given rise to inadequate space between the engines for maintenance to be
undertaken easily.

The project also suffered from numerous implementation difficulties that were the result of external factors
that had a substantially adverse effect on the project. The quality of major components of the DPP-2
equipment turned out to be unsatisfactory, despite being supplied by a reputable manufacturer.

The low level of interest by foreign companies in the proposed O&M contract for DPP was beyond the
control of GOY or PEC, as was the inability of the selected O&M contractor to provide suitable personnel.
The bankruptcy of the contractor for subtransmission works, caused major delays and difficulties in
making alternative arrangements for completing the works.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:



                                                     - 10 -

There were numerous instances where GOY actions or policies had a deleterious impact on the project and
on PEC.

Throughout project implementation, GOY practiced an unsatisfactory electricity tariff and fuel pricing
policy, characterized by delayed and inadequate tariff increases, the unwillingness to introduce a fuel
adjustment clause and the over-pricing of HFO to protect the Aden refinery. GOY also took little action to
address the chronic delays in payment for electricity by public sector bodies.

The inordinate delay on the part of GOY in developing Yemen's gas resources has imposed unnecessary
costs in the use of oil and the suboptimal choice of new generation plants to meet the supply gap.

The imposition upon PEC of the obligation to continue using poor quality HFO with high sulphur content
was both damaging to its equipment as well as environmentally harmful.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Many of the problems encountered during project implementation were beyond the control of PEC.
However, the engineering supervision consultants hired under the project should have been replaced earlier
for poor performance. PEC was remiss in not introducing all the environmental mitigation measures
recommended by the EIA at the DDP-1 and Al Qa'a plants. There were numerous procurement delays
such as the award of contract for Asser substation and the rehabilitation of DDP-1, which are partially
attributable to PEC.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The final project cost (local and foreign) at Credit closure was US$55.4million., compared to
US$60.0million at appraisal. The cost of completing the unfinished rehabilitation work and environmental
mitigation measures at DPP is not included in the above estimate. The estimates for the local costs of the
project understate the full contribution of PEC, since some works that were undertaken directly by PEC's
labor force has not been accounted for.

GOY/PEC were expected to finance 10% of total costs, all in local currency. In practice their share came
to only 5%, with the balance funded by IDA. There were no cofinanciers. Approximately SDR 2.7m or
5% of the Credit was undisbursed at closure and will be canceled.

Implementation took seven years instead of the five expected at appraisal. The closing date of the Credit
was extended twice to accommodate delays arising inter alia, from the premature termination of the O&M
contract, the bankruptcy of one of the contractors, and the need to make alternative arrangements to
rehabilitate DPP-1.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is uncertain, but on balance is judged to be likely because (i) the quality of
maintenance of the generation assets acquired under the project is likely to improve in the light of PEC's
decision to contract an equipment manufacturer to carry out maintenance of generation plants; and (ii)
measures envisaged under the forthcoming IDA Power Sector Project to address PEC's weak finances,
poor internal operating practices, shortages of skilled staff and an inadequately trained workforce.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A maintenance contract for diesel plants is being negotiated by PEC with its main equipment supplier,
which would ensure that periodic maintenance is not neglected and plant availability should also be higher



                                                     - 11 -

as a result. There is a clear commitment from PEC management to complete rehabilitation of DPP-1. The
process of selecting a firm to provide specialized skills and play a supervisory role for the rehabilitation has
begun. PEC is also committed to bringing the DPP-1 and Al Qa'a plants into compliance with Bank
environmental standards.

Implementation of the recommendations of the I/O Study, especially with respect to strengthening PEC's
accounting, tariffs, financial management, MIS etc. are to be addressed as part of the proposed Power
Sector Project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at the time of project preparation and appraisal was highly unsatisfactory. As described
in the section on quality at entry, many important aspects were overlooked or poorly analyzed. This may
have been in part due to the attempt to process the project on an accelerated schedule, and the fact that the
skill mix of the Bank team gave insufficient weight to technical expertise. Key areas such as loss reduction
and capacity building were left out, in part because of the excessive importance given to the proposed
O&M contract with a foreign firm for DPP. This took away attention from the pressing need to address
the major weaknesses within PEC which would not be remedied by this arrangement. But the main
shortcoming of the Bank at that stage was the decision to finance a plant that was neither an `emergency'
solution nor an appropriate longer-term investment.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision is rated as satisfactory. Regular missions were undertaken twice a
year throughout the implementation period, problems encountered were flagged and appropriate remedial
action proposed. Project performance was correctly downgraded to unsatisfactory between 2000-02 and
PEC/GOY were repeatedly exhorted (including by senior Regional management) to take steps to improve
compliance with financial covenants to bring the project back on track. The restructuring of the project
following the MTR, led to the inclusion of new components that addressed some of the shortcomings of the
initial design. The Bank team also assisted PEC in making alternative implementing arrangements
following the premature termination of two major contracts.

However, due to internal Bank organizational factors, there was no integrated dialog with GOY on both
power and gas issues. The SEPP supervision team did not have concurrent responsibility for the gas sector,
even though the project financed a combined gas-power masterplan and was to have provided advisory
services for a gas-fired IPP.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The shortcomings in preparation and appraisal were partially remedied when the project was restructured
after the MTR, but better supervision performance by the Bank could not outweigh the earlier deficiencies.
Hence overall Bank performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during project preparation was unsatisfactory. GOY did not conduct a rigorous
techno-economic analysis prior to its decision on proceeding with the DPP-2 plant. Nor was a
best-practice, competitive selection process undertaken for the choice of contractor for DPP-2. This in turn
led to the selection of a sub-optimal plant with serious technical drawbacks.




                                                     - 12 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
GOY's performance during project implementation was unsatisfactory. The two main reasons for this
assessment are its poor financial policies in the energy sector as a whole and its inability to develop
Yemen's gas for power generation in a timely manner.

The distorted pricing of HFO continues to impose a heavy burden on PEC finances that in turn obliges
GOY to provide PEC with cash compensation to cover its revenue shortfall since GOY is reluctant to
permit electricity tariffs to be raised. Despite repeated advice from the Bank, GOY did not introduce a fuel
adjustment clause in PEC's tariff structure.

Nor was GOY ready to allow PEC to procure higher-quality, low sulfur fuel oil, despite this being the
cheaper solution for Yemen (when the cost of repairing damage to power plants caused by fuel impurities
are taken onto account). GOY policy was aimed at supporting the Aden refinery, (that would otherwise
face serious problems in selling this low quality fuel in the international market), to the detriment of PEC
but it would have been preferable to pay a subsidy directly to the refinery and leave PEC free to procure
better fuel.

The delay in coming to closure on gas development imposed a high financial and economic cost on the
country in terms of avoidable imports of diesel as well as sub-optimal investment choices (additional diesel
and steam capacity).

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Although PEC staff tried very hard to find solutions to the technical problems that beset the DPP-2 plant
and concerted efforts were made to reduce losses and improve commercial performance, overall PEC
performance under the project is rated unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

l DPP-1 rehabilitation remained unfinished, despite the availability of time and funds before Credit
    closure;
l No action was taken to implement the EMP at the Al Qa'a plant;
l There was excessive delay in implementing the oily water treatment plant at DPP, thereby causing
    unnecessary contamination of soil and groundwater. Environmental and safety concerns have yet to be
    properly internalized by PEC staff;
l Few of the I/O study's proposals for internal improvements to PEC's organization have been
    implemented;
l Replacement of the Hiswa desalination plant was not done during the life of the project, even though in
    the IDA Credit agreement, GOY had committed to do so by end-2001;
l Audit reports and financial statements from PEC were never submitted to the Bank on time.
l Despite repeated attention drawn by the auditors to PEC's weak inventory control and stores
    management, no satisfactory steps were taken to strengthen its inventory management and as a result
    proper utilization of all distribution materials procured under the project could not be ascertained.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower during the project is assessed as unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons of broader relevance emerge from the experience of this project:

l The Bank should be very cautious in pursuing experimental or innovative solutions to institutional
    problems in small countries with little potential for attracting foreign investors and with limited


                                                      - 13 -

    capacity to design, negotiate and supervise complex contractual arrangements with private investors.
    The saga of the failed O&M contract for DPP illustrates this. (section 4.2)
l The Bank should have been more proactive in the gas sector, given the close interdependency between
    gas and power. The macroeconomic loss to Yemen from almost a decade's delay in developing its gas
    resources for power generation (independent of any other losses from non-utilization of gas in other
    sectors and/or exports) runs into hundreds of millions of dollars. The Bank could have done a better job
    in advising and assisting GOY to expedite gas development for power independently of the LNG export
    schemes that GOY was primarily interested in (section 7.2).
l Energy loss reduction and capacity building programs should always be included in Bank's power
    projects seeking to improve the performance of power utilities. They are often slow to yield results but
    there is no substitute for institutional strengthening in order to achieve better utility performance. In the
    case of this project, a diagnosis of PEC's weakness with no provision for addressing them was clearly
    inadequate (section 4.2).
l State support to oil refining should not impose unreasonable burdens on the electric power sector and
    should be dealt with separately from power sector finances. (section 7.5)

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                      - 14 -

- 15 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information

None




                                             - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Reinforce the power system in the Sana'a       Power balance in Sana'a improved by       The project had a major positive impact on
region as the first step in an expansion plan  end-2001, but no numerical target given.  power supply in Sana'a, but the degree of
aiming at a more efficient and reliable supply                                           load shedding has worsened of late due to
of electricity.                                                                          the failure to construct sufficient generation
                                                                                         capacity in a timely manner. Load shedding
                                                                                         had been reduced to below 50MW in 2001,
                                                                                         but has now risen above 60MW.

Reform and develop the power sector on an                                                Completed institutional-organizational reform
economically and environmentally sustainable                                             study, and Government approval of enabling
basis, to improve its efficiency and to create                                           legislation for sectoral restructuring and
the conditions for increased private sector                                              corporatization of PEC. But the reforms
participation.                                                                           proposed by the I/O study and approved by
                                                                                         GOY need to be re-examined in the light of
                                                                                         changed circumstances in the international
                                                                                         electricity industry. An electricity law drafted
                                                                                         as part of this study is under consideration.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
PEC Load shedding to be reduced.               From 50MW at appraisal to below 5MW by    Load shedding at end-2002 was about
                                               end-2002.                                 57MW and about 63MW at end-2004.
Number & duration of 11kV outages to be        Outages to be reduced by 90% at end-2002  Major increase in outages in last 2 years due
reduced.                                                                                 to shortage of generation capacity to meet
                                                                                         peak demand.
PEC total system losses to be reduced.         Total PEC system losses reduced to 31% at Losses reduced to 35% in 2002 and 33% at
(generation+transmission+distribution)         end-2002.                                 end-2004.
O & M Contract for DPP-1 and DPP 2             Operational by April 1999.                Started in 2001, but terminated in 2002 due
                                                                                         to contractor non-compliance.
Complete gas-power master plan                 By March 1999.                            Completed November 2001
GOY decision on major new power and gas        By September 1999.                        Delayed to 2002-3.
investments.
Complete institutional and organizational      By September 1999.                        Completed June 2002.
study.
Implement new tariff policy, structure and     By September 1999.                        Not implemented.
schedule.

1End of project
Note: The targets indicated for the last PSR are actually end of project targets as projected in the PAD.




                                                                - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Dhahban -2 (30MW) plant                                     22.60           19.40               86
Dhahban -1 (20MW) spares & rehabilitation                    5.10             9.80             192
Asser Substation Expansion                                   8.10             5.20              64
Sana'a Sub-transmission Reinforcement                       12.00             9.00              75
Loss reduction materials                                     0.00             5.20               0
Project Management Services & PMU                            2.30             3.90             170
O&M Contract                                                 3.60             0.10               3
Power/Gas Master Plan Study                                  0.60             0.50              83
PSPIU                                                        1.70             0.90              53
Institutional-Organizational Study                           3.30             1.00              30
Training                                                     0.70             0.10              14
Other (consultants, vehicles)                                0.00             0.30               0

Total Baseline Cost                                         60.00           55.40
                          Total Project Costs               60.00           55.40
                  Total Financing Required                  60.00           55.40


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            8.20            0.20        19.40          1.40         29.20
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           17.50            0.00         1.60          0.00         19.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         4.40          1.50          5.90
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.80          0.00          0.80
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           25.70            0.20        26.20          2.90         55.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.00         0.97           0.00         0.97
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           48.16           0.00         1.80           0.00        49.96
                                  (44.56)         (0.00)       (1.77)         (0.00)       (46.33)


                                                - 18 -

   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              4.29             0.00              4.29
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.23)            (0.00)           (4.23)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                48.16              0.00              7.06             0.00             55.22
                                           (44.56)            (0.00)            (6.00)            (0.00)           (50.56)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
New Generation Capacity        22.60         0.00         0.00       19.40         0.00       0.00       85.8      0.0       0.0
Rehabilitation of Existing     21.20         4.00         0.00       27.80         1.40       0.00       131.1     35.0      0.0
Generating Units and
Transmission Networks
Project Management and          5.60         0.00         0.00        3.40         1.50       0.00       60.7      0.0       0.0
Training
Technical Assistance for        4.60         2.00         0.00        1.90         0.00       0.00       41.3      0.0       0.0
Sector Planning and
Institutional Reform
Total                          54.00         6.00         0.00       52.50         2.90       0.00       97.2      48.3      0.0




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                                                                      Table 1: Economic Internal Rate of Return
                                                                                                                                                                        in constant US dollars (mn)



    Year                                                                                             Energy                                               Outflows in $m
                                 Gross electricity production by plant in GWh                        Losses      Benefits     Benefits       Capital    O & M       Fuel          Total
                DPP-2        DPP-1          Al Qa'a      Hizyaz70MW Hizyaz30MW TOTAL GWh in %                    in GWh       in$mn         Expend.     Cost        Cost
    1999                                                                                                                                      17.0                                 17.0
    2000             25                                                                     25          40            15         0.9          3.1         1.0         1.2           5.3
    2001             81                                                                     81          39            49         3.5          0.9         1.1         3.4           5.4
    2002             147                                                                    147         35            96         6.7          6.4         1.4         6.2          14.0
    2003             130                                                      180           310         34           205         14.3         16.3        2.2        14.9          33.4
    2004             124                                      95              198           417         33           279         27.9         5.0         2.4        29.9          37.3
    2005             120          30             20           500             200           870         32           592         76.9         5.8         2.7        80.7          89.2
    2006             150          50             30           500             200           930         31           642         83.4                     2.7        83.5          86.3
    2007             180          100            30           500             200          1010         30           707         91.9                     2.7        87.8          90.5
    2008             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        88.1          90.9
    2009             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        84.9          87.6
    2010             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        81.6          84.3
    2011             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        78.3          81.1
    2012             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        76.2          78.9
    2013             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        75.1          77.8
    2014             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        74.0          76.7
    2015             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6
    2016             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6
    2017             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6
    2018             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6
    2019             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6
    2020             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6
    2021             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6
    2022             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6
    2023             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6
    2024             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6
    2025             200          120            30           500             200          1050         30           735         95.6                     2.7        72.9          75.6

                                                                                                                                          Economic IRR                               10.5%
                                                                                                                                          NPV (in US$m) @ 10%                           3.5

Notes:
Generation-actual data upto 2004
DPP-2 expected to continue operating as baseload plant
Details of fuel cost computations are given in Table 2
Total energy losses expected to continue falling to 30% as a result of loss reduction program
Net energy consumption valued at actual average tariff from 2000-03, at USc10/kWh in 2004 and thereafter at USc13/kWh as proxy for project benefits
Capital expenditures include all costs incurred under SEPP, but not construction of the Hizyaz plant
O & M costs assumed to be 5% of total capital expenditures




                                                                                         - 20 -

                                                                         Table2:Fuelcostestimates

Year PricecifAdenUS$/ton
       (Gulfspot+$7/ttranspt)                                       Grosselectricityproductionandfuelconsumptionbyplant                               TOTAL
                                                                                                      Hizyaz                        Hizyaz            FUEL
                                  DPP-2 fuel                 DPP-1 fuel  cost     AlQa'a fuel   cost  70    FO     cost HSD    cost 30    fuel   cost COST
      diesel        HSFO          GWh      000lit     cost$m GWh 000lit  $m       GWh 000lit    $m    GWh   000lit $m   000lit $m   GWh   000lit $m   $m
2000      242.5        172.1         25     6124       1.24                                                                                            1.24
2001      204.3        146.1         81     20225      3.44                                                                                            3.44
2002      207.3        165.2        147     36172      6.25                                                                                            6.25
2003      231.8        185.1        130     32619      6.30               0.00                   0.00                           0.00 180   44694  8.63 14.93
2004       350          300         124     33094      9.65               0.00                   0.00   95    9567  2.61 12236  3.57 198   48284 14.08 29.91
2005       460          400         120     30000      11.50  30    7500  2.88      20    5000   1.92  500   40000 14.55 80000 30.67 200   50000 19.17 80.67
2006       445          385         150     37500      13.91  50    12500 4.64      30    7500   2.78  500   40000 14.00 80000 29.67 200   50000 18.54 83.53
2007       430          370         180     45000      16.13 100    25000 8.96      30    7500   2.69  500   40000 13.45 80000 28.67 200   50000 17.92 87.81
2008       415          355         200     50000      17.29 120    30000 10.38     30    7500   2.59  500   40000 12.91 80000 27.67 200   50000 17.29 88.13
2009       400          340         200     50000      16.67 120    30000 10.00     30    7500   2.50  500   40000 12.36 80000 26.67 200   50000 16.67 84.86
2010       385          325         200     50000      16.04 120    30000 9.63      30    7500   2.41  500   40000 11.82 80000 25.67 200   50000 16.04 81.60
2011       370          310         200     50000      15.42 120    30000 9.25      30    7500   2.31  500   40000 11.27 80000 24.67 200   50000 15.42 78.34
2012       360          300         200     50000      15.00 120    30000 9.00      30    7500   2.25  500   40000 10.91 80000 24.00 200   50000 15.00 76.16
2013       355          295         200     50000      14.79 120    30000 8.88      30    7500   2.22  500   40000 10.73 80000 23.67 200   50000 14.79 75.07
2014       350          290         200     50000      14.58 120    30000 8.75      30    7500   2.19  500   40000 10.55 80000 23.33 200   50000 14.58 73.98
2015       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89
2016       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89
2017       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89
2018       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89
2019       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89
2020       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89
2021       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89
2022       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89
2023       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89
2024       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89
2025       345          285         200     50000      14.38 120    30000 8.63      30    7500   2.16  500   40000 10.36 80000 23.00 200   50000 14.38 72.89

Notes:
7.65 barrels crude = 1 metric ton, diesel 1200 litres/MT
Price data:
Actualsto2004takenfrom'Oil&GassectorinYemen,Background&Issues'reportbyF.Gerner,(COCPO)Nov.2004,Table4.5
Projectionsfor2005-2015fromofficialWBf'cast
Production:
Hizyazplanttooperateasbaseloadat75-80%plantfactor
ActualfuelconsumptiondatafromPECGenerationdept.
projected specific consumption:
DPP:210gm/kWh
Hizyaz:200gm/kWh




                                                                            - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/31/1997                3    PR. FIN. ANALYST (1),
                                             ENGINEER (1), FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/31/1998

 Supervision

              10/31/1998                4    PR. FIN. ANALYST (1);            S               S
                                             LAWYER (1);ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              05/20/1999                5    SECTOR MGR (1); PR.              S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              12/13/1999                5    PR. FIN. ANALYST (1);            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1); LAWYER (1)
              06/01/2000                3    SR. FIN. ANALYST (1);            U               U
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              11/28/2000                5    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          U               U
                                             SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FIN. MGT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)
              06/07/2001                4    SR. FIN. ANALYST (1),            S               U
                                             ENERGY ECONOMIST (1),
                                             FIN. MGT SPECIALIST (1),
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1),
                                             SECTOR MGR (1)
              02/20/2002                5    SR. FIN. ANALYST (1);            U               U
                                             ENERGY ADVISER (1); FIN.
                                             ANALYST/FMS (1); ENERGY
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              11/10/2002                4    FIN. MGT SPECIALIST (1);         S               S
                                             FIN. ANALYST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                             ENERGY ECONOMIST (1)
              05/24/2003                4    SR. FIN. ANALYST (1); FIN.       S               S
                                             MGT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1)



                                              - 22 -

               12/20/2003              4   SR. FIN. ANALYST (1);              S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC (1);
                                           IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                           POWER ENGINEER (1)
               06/29/2004              4   SR. FIN. ANALYST/TTL (1);          S    S
                                           IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                           FIN. MGT SPEC. (2)
               12/15/2004              4   SR. FIN. ANALYST (1);              S    S
                                           IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                           ENGINEER (1); FIN. MGT
                                           SPEC. (1)

 ICR
               08/19/2005             4     SR. FIN. ANALYST/TTL              S    S
                                            (1); ENERGY
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            IMPLEMENTATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                           296.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                86.0
  Supervision                                                          716.0
  ICR                                                       45.0 (estimated)
  Total                                                              1,143.0




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Appraisal Document, 1998

2. Mid-Term Review Report, 2001

3. Institutional and Organizational Study for the Power Sector, 2002

4. Master Plan Study for the Development of Electricity Supply and the Utilization of Natural Gas, 2002

5. Impact Assessment Study, November 2005




Annex 7a. Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report




                                                   - 26 -

- 27 -

     GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN

          Ministry of Electricity

      Public Electricity Corporation

     Sana'a Emergency Power Project



         Borrower's Contribution
for the Implementation Completion Report




            October 19, 2005




                    - 28 -

            BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

1. Project Development Objectives

The development objectives of the Sana'a Emergency Power Project (SEPP) were: (a) to
relieve critical supply constraints and meet the growing demand for a reliable and adequate
power supply, particularly in Sana'a, the key load centre, until a Master Plan could be
designed and implemented for further least-cost system expansion; and (b) lay the foundation
for development and reform of the power sector in an economically and environmentally
sustainable manner, and with increased participation of the private sector.

2. Original Project Components

The Project was termed as an emergency project by the Government of Yemen (GOY)
because of the urgent nature of the power supply problems and their adverse social and
economic impacts. The Project was supposed to accomplish the following objectives by
supporting an investment component to:

(a) Construct a new 30 MW Diesel Power Station at Dhaban Site;
(b) Rehabilitate the existing 20 MW Diesel Power Station;
(c) Extend Asser Bulk Supply Point (BSP);
(d)     Reinforce the 33/11-kV Sana'a distribution network. This component comprised two
        parts:
        (i)     Extension and construction of 33/11 kV substations in Sana'a to improve the
                city's power supply at the distribution voltage level; and
        (ii)    Procurement of 33 kV and 11 kV middle voltage equipment and material for
                PEC to construct new middle voltage overhead lines in conjunction with the
                extension and construction of new substations.
(e) Mitigate environmental impacts on air and water quality.

The Project also supported a technical assistance component to design and launch the power
sector reform program by:

(a)     Establishing DPP as a separate cost centre with autonomous management under a
        private sector operational and maintenance (O&M) contract;
(b)     Preparing a Master Plan for long-term expansion of the power sector and utilization of
        domestic natural gas reserves; and
(c)     Designing and starting the implementation of a comprehensive reform of the power
        sector. This fundamental reform program - a central element of the Project would be
        designed through an Institutional and Organizational Study (I+O) study

3 Revised Components



                                            - 29 -

Following the mid-term review of the Project, the DCA was amended on December 7, 2001
to include two more components to the original components as follows:

(a) Provision of goods required for the reduction of PEC's grid system losses.
(b) Carrying out advisory services for the Marib Private Power Project.

4 Achievement of Project Objectives:

4.1 Installation of a new power plant at Dhaban: The centerpiece of the project's investment
program was the construction of 30MW (5X6 MW), medium-speed diesel generating units
(DPP-2) next to the existing Dhaban-1 plant. The plant was built under a supply and erect
contract for about US$19 million including the variation orders for the implementation of
environmental mitigation measures for the plant. It went into service in mid-2000, easing the
shortage of power in Sana'a. Since commissioning, DPP-2 has produced over 500 GWh of
electricity. Due to PEC's continuing lack of adequate generation capacity, this plant is used
to meet base load and will continue to play a crucial role in serving demand in Sana'a at least
until 2008.

4.1.1       During implementation, a Settlement and Taking Over Agreement was negotiated
and signed between Wärtsilä Italia and Ansaldo Energia and approved by PEC, defining the
responsibilities of Wärtsilä as legal successor of Grandi Motori Trieste SPA, the manufacturer
of the engines and Ansaldo, the initial Contractor for the Project. The Settlement and Taking
Over Agreement was based on a Memorandum of Understanding between Ansaldo Energia
and Wärtsilä Italia and a Deed of Assignment.

4.1.2       In February 2005 the Consultant performed a comprehensive inspection of the
power plant and following the inspection, a comprehensive report was issued to PEC
describing the general condition of the engines, highlighting all ongoing problems and
proposing measures for further investigation or measures to rectify the problem. The final
report was handed over to PEC on March 19, 2005.

4.1.3       Based on the findings and recommendations in the inspection report, a letter was
issued to the Contractor with proposals to rectify problems in conjunction with setting a time
frame for performance of rectification measures. Accordingly, an Addendum No. 1 to the
Settlement and Taking Over Agreement (Amendment No. 2 to the basic contract, signed on
January 27, 2003 in Sana'a) was signed between Wärtsilä Italia SPA and PEC. It was
approved and signed by the Minister of Electricity. The following two outstanding items
claimed by PEC were settled: (i) connecting rod bearings; and (ii) cavitations in the fuel
injection system.

4.1.4       PEC has not yet finally taken it over because of various technical deficiencies that
prevented the plant from operating on a sustained basis without unplanned shutdowns. These
problems have been rectified with the exception of cavitations in the fuel injection system
which in turn gives rise to excessive smoke emissions. It is expected that the equipment



                                            - 30 -

supplier will be able to remedy this problem by the end of 2005. Noise levels within the
powerhouse are unacceptably high but there are no feasible remedies available. Noise level
measurements taken at the perimeter wall of the plant indicate that these are within acceptable
norms. In addition, the plant is located on the periphery of the city and there is no housing
nearby.

4.1.5       The engines at DPP-2 failed to attain a Maximum Continuous Rating (MCR) of
6MW each thereby resulting in about 25MW of the total plant output instead of the
contracted 30 MW. Hence the engine manufacturer supplied, installed and commissioned an
additional 5 MW plant at no cost to PEC at the Al-Qa'a Power Station. This unit has been in
operation since June 2004 and has not experienced any technical problems. However, there
are some environmental and safety mitigation measures still to be completed at this site in
order to reduce the excessive noise level in the plant and the surrounding residential area. An
EIA was carried out under the project

4.2 Rehabilitation of Existing Dhaban Plant (DPP-1). This component (consisting of the
repair and rehabilitation of the existing 4X5 MW generators) was designed to increase their
capacity from a total of only 8 MW to 18 MW. Implementation faced serious delays due to
the fact that the work should have been carried out as part of the O&M contract for the plant,
which suffered major problems.

4.2.1       To complete the rehabilitation of the engines by using the procured spare parts, a
contract YEM016 - SE was signed in March 2004 between PEC and the local representative
of MAN/B&W, Germany for rehabilitation works and commissioning of the 4 engines.
Rehabilitation of engine no. 4 started in autumn 2003 and by August 2004, the engine was
commissioned successfully and showed the expected and contracted performance. Since that
time, the engine is in successful operation for peak-load generation.

4.2.2       Rehabilitation of engine no. 2 started in spring 2004 under Contractors
supervision.    The engine was commissioned successfully and showed the expected and
contracted performance

4.2.3       Rehabilitation work for the remaining two units could not be completed within the
Closing date and is being undertaken by PEC staff under the supervision of consultants from
the manufacturer with GOY funding. The necessary spares were financed under the Credit
and have already been delivered to the site.         The Environmental mitigation measures
recommended by the EIA also need to be implemented for DPP-1.

4.3 Operations & Maintenance Contract for Dhaban Power Plant: The initial project design
envisaged that both DPP-1 and 2 would be segregated from the rest of PEC and that a private
operator would be selected to rehabilitate, operate and maintain them under a contract that
would be eligible for IDA financing. After a lengthy and difficult procurement process, a
contract was signed with the sole party that submitted an offer, despite GoY reservations
about going ahead. However, during the period July 7, 2001 ­ mid December 2001, the
Operator, Union Fenosa O&M (now Soluziona O&M Union Fenosa Group) implemented



                                            - 31 -

only a few of the contractual tasks, with some in a draft form. This was of poor quality and
not in accordance with the Contract particularly the Working Plan related to setting up of
Managements Plans and Procedures. In addition substantial delay was already encountered.

4.3.1       When it become clear that the Operator's Management Staff experience and
performance are inadequate, PEC in early January 2002 asked the Operator to replace them
but the response was not satisfactory since only demoblization had occurred without
moblizing replacements which caused further delays.

4.3.2       The Operator continued to abandon the site (Management Staff replacement was
not moblized). An extensive management meeting was held on 9 ­ 10 February 2002 in which
the SEPP Consultant SWECO International had participated and was requested by PEC to
provide consultancy services for this Contract. All outstanding issues were discussed and
agreement was reached on some of them, however on February 22, 2002, the Operator sent a
letter to PEC commenting on the minutes of the management meeting and clarifying its
proposed actions. The contents of this letter were found to be non contractual and fell very
short from resolving the situation. Several correspondence were exchanged but without
tangible results.

4.3.3       In fact, the response and the content of the Operator's correspondence indicated
that the Operator's firm had several problems that render it unable to even find a suitable
replacement for the Management Staff at site and as a result, the Operator had sent to PEC on
May 22, 2002 a Notice of Termination claiming the cause as failure of PEC to effect payment.
The Operator had no right to terminate the Contract as the payment is disputed by PEC.

4.3.4       Consequent correspondences revealed that the Operator was insistent on
terminating the Contract. Based on the advice of PEC's legal adviser, a Notice of Termination
for cause was sent to the Operator on July 16, 2002 providing 30 days to honour their
Contractual Obligations. Major obligations were listed in the Notice letter. Despite PEC's full
cooperation and patience, no favourable action was taken by the Operator.

4.3.5       PEC therefore initiated the contract termination proceedings, which were not
contested and the contractor withdrew in mid-2002. The O&M contract thus came to an end
within a few months of its start without any significant work having been done. As a result,
over three/four years were lost without any rehabilitation work commencing at DPP-1, during
a period when PEC was very short of generation capacity. After the contract was terminated,
it was agreed that PEC should use the IDA Credit to procure the necessary spares to
rehabilitate DPP-1 and hire consultants from diesel engine manufacturers to carry out the
work in conjunction with its own staff. Starting afresh added to the delays and as a result
rehabilitation works only began in 2004. Not only did this experiment fail, but it absorbed an
inordinate amount of time and effort by PEC management and Bank staff, with detrimental
effects on other aspects of the project.

4.4 Asser Substation Expansion. Extension of Asser 132/33 kV Bulk Supply Point was carried
out using the following equipment/plant:



                                           - 32 -

(a)     132 kV substation with double busbar and bus coupler/ bus tie feeder including four
        line feeders and three transformer feeders
(b)     One 60 MVA 132/33 kV power transformer and the related 33/11 kV earthing/
        auxiliary transformer
(c)     New terminal towers for the by-passing 132 kV line for looping of the line through the
        new substation
(d)     Extension of the existing 33 kV indoor switchgear with an additional seven bays
(e)     Control and protection equipment for 132 kV and 33 kV feeders
(f)     Extension of the SCADA system
(g)     Civil works for the switchyard and the OHL towers as well as extension of the
        substation building to accommodate the additional equipment.

4.4.1       This important 132/33 kV substation was completed in June 2004 at a cost of
US$5,554,573. The works were completed satisfactorily and the system is now operational.
Substantial economic benefits can be attributed to this component because without it,
incremental generation capacity would not have been utilized fully.

4.5 33/15/11-kV Sub-transmission Works.

4.5.1       The scope of works consisted of:

(a)     Construction of four new 33/11kV substations with 33 kV outdoor equipment and 11
        kV air insulated indoor switchgear and one 20 MVA 33/11kV power transformer for
        each substation;
(b)     Extension of seven existing 33/11-15 kV substations by: (i) addition of 20 MVA 33/11
        kV power transformers and the related 33 kV outdoor switchgear, and (ii) addition of
        11-kV indoor switchgear;
(c)     Rehabilitation of existing control buildings; and
(d)     Replacement of four old 10 MVA 33/11 KV transformers by new 20 MVA 33/11kV
        power transformers.

4.5.2       The Contractor did not continue works at any Sites after May 31st 2003.
Following several notifications to resume works, the Contract was terminated on June 18,
2003 based on the Contractor's Fault and all bonds and guarantee were withdrawn by the
Employer.

4.5.3       PEC held several negotiations with the suppliers of the former Contractor for
procurement of material not delivered and signed a Contract with M/s. PELKA for delivery of
Control and Protection Panels. Furthermore, PEC signed a contract with M/s. ABB Turkey
for the delivery of the remaining four power transformer covered by Change Order Co-X-001
and for commissioning supervision of the 33/11 kV substations.

4.5.4       After October 2003, PEC took over the responsibility for completion of civil
works and electromechanical installation works. The 33/11 kV control and protection panels



                                            - 33 -

from M/s. Pelka and the remaining four 33/11 kV power transformers were delivered and
installed. Based on the commissioning supervision contract with M/s. ABB, commissioning of
all substations was completed in 2004 and all substations are in service.

4.5.5       These works are now complete and the sub-stations are in service, helping to
improve the power supply in the Sana'a area by adding a transforming capability of
approximately 200MW which facilitated the additional generation of 150MW, 45MW in
Dhaban, 100MW in Haziz, 10MW in Al-Qa'a and the additional transformed power of 50MW
from the Asser 132/33kv substation to be transferred and distributed, also to minimize the
power cut outs due to the over loaded 33kV system.

4.6 33/11kV Distribution Lines & Cables.          Conductors, underground cables, insulators,
clamps, line accessories, wooden poles etc for a value of US$2.9m were procured under this
component. PEC used these materials to reinforce the distribution network in Sana'a in
accordance with the Distribution Visibility study prepared earlier by the Supervision
consultant. Some of the materials have also been used by PEC to install new five 33-kV line
feeders between the newly-built 100 MW power station at Haziz (about 18 km south of
Sana'a) to the 33KV distribution system in Sana'a which has already been expanded, thereby
making a very important contribution to easing the power shortages in the capital, make the
operation of the system more flexible and relieving the overloaded feeders of the system. This
activity was completed satisfactorily by spring 2003 and with the extension of the 33/11kV
distribution system in Sana'a which was designed originally to transfer and distribute the
additional power in Dhaban 45MW and the additional transformed power of 50 MW from the
Asser 132/33kv substation only, thereby making a very important contribution to transforming
and distributing the new constructed generation power of 100 MW in Haziz which was not
part of this project.

4.7 Advisory Services for IPP Development. At the time of the MTR, it was decided to
earmark Credit funds for advisory services for a 400 MW gas-fired IPP at Marib gas field.
However, due to delays in proceeding with the IPP and the availability of alternative funds, it
proved unnecessary to utilize the IDA Credit for this purpose. The savings generated were
reallocated for procurement of materials related to loss reduction.

4.8 Electricity Loss Reduction. PEC procured meters, capacitors, low voltage overhead lines
and underground cables from the savings of the credit after the DCA was amended on
December 7, 2001 to include the provision of goods required for the reduction of PEC's grid
system losses to a value of US$5.28m. In addition, over the past few years, PEC (with
appropriate support from the Ministry of Electricity) has introduced special measures to
reduce non-technical losses as well. As a result, electricity distribution losses have been
reduced from 32% in 1999 to 25% in 2004. Total system losses remain unacceptably high at
33% in 2004 although this is a significant improvement compared to 39.5% in 2000.

4.9 Institutional & Organizational Study: The study was satisfactorily completed, albeit with a
substantial delay compared to initial expectations. With hindsight, it is apparent that the
timetable for such a wide-ranging study, with many discrete but interdependent modules, was



                                            - 34 -

unrealistic and did not allow sufficient time for review and comments by both the Yemeni
steering committee and the Bank. One of its major contributions was the drafting of an
electricity law, which is currently being prepared for submission to the Cabinet prior to being
presented to Parliament for debate. The diagnosis of PEC's weaknesses provides a basis for
the design of a program of capacity building that is envisaged as a component of the follow-on
IDA project currently under preparation. In regards to its recommendations on institutional
reforms such as unbundling, these have not been acted upon, partly due to disappointing
international experience that has come to light in recent years and changing perceptions about
the value of unbundling small utilities.

4.10         Gas/Power Master Plan: System planning was virtually non-existent in PEC prior
to this project.   This is illustrated by the fact that no master plan was available in the
mid-1990s and the fact that PEC found itself in 1997 confronted by a substantial shortfall in
generating capacity to meet demand as a result of a failure to forecast, plan and invest in
capacity increments in a regular and timely manner. The master plan was therefore a valuable
activity that enabled PEC and GOY to analyze sector development options in a systematic
manner. It demonstrated that the least-cost sequence of generation investments consisted of a
series of single-cycle gas turbines located close to the Marib gas field. Unfortunately, major
delays in coming to closure on gas field development has forced PEC to proceed with the
construction of numerous additional diesel-based generation plants totaling 130MW that were
not envisaged in the master plan. A further 70MW of steam generation capacity (using HFO)
will also be brought into service in 2006. The projected date for the start of the first gas-fired
power plant in Marib is early 2008, compared to 2002, when the master plan was under
preparation. Without the recent additions to diesel generation capacity by PEC, the country
would suffer an intolerable degree of power outages. The master plan also contributed to
some capacity building in PEC's planning department, where several staff was trained in the
use of the WASP power system modeling and simulation tools.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome:

Implementation was disrupted and delayed for the following reasons:

5.1 Two major contracts were terminated due to the fault of the contractors. As a result,
construction activities were delayed, PEC had to negotiations several contracts with suppliers
of the former Contractors for procurement of materials not delivered, and PEC took over
responsibility for completion of civil works and electromechanical installation works for one
of the contracts and hired consultants from diesel engine manufacturers to carry out the work
in conjunction with its own staff for the other contract.

5.2 The transfer of the 30MW Dahban power plant contract from the main contractor to the
sub-contractor after the main contractor failed to rectify major defects.

5.3 The approval of the procurement procedures of the contract for the 30MW Dahban power
plant by WB and the Government was a major factor affecting the quality and the performance
of the engines.



                                            - 35 -

5.4 The contract of Asser substation had several technical issues and caused considerable
differences between the parties, since technical requirement stated in the Contract could not
be implemented as required, due to the fact that the existing technical installation where
different than expected or did not allow implementation of the required solution.

5.5 This refers in particular to

(a) interconnection of the old and the new DC system,
(b) interconnection of the AC auxiliary systems,
(c) interlocking between existing and new 33 kV switchgear, and
(d) synchronizing schemes for 33 kV feeders.

5.6 Further technical consideration on existing installations resulted in change orders as
exchange of existing power transformer control and protection cubicles.

5.7 The lengthy and difficult procurement process of the Operations & Maintenance Contract
for the Dhaban Power Plant.

6. Project Cost Estimates:

Project cost (foreign and local) by component (in US$ equivalent ­ historical values) is
detailed in the table below:

Sl. No.     Component                  Appr.    Actual  Actual   Actual Percentage
                                      Est.      Foreign Local    Total    of Appr.
                                                US$     US$      US$      %
1.          Dhaban-2 (30MW) plant      22.6     19.4    0.0      19.4     86
2           Dhaban-1 (20MW) Rehab      5.1      9.8     0.0      9.8      192
            and spares
3           Asser           Substation 8.1      4.6     0.6      5.2      64
            Expansion
4           Sana'a          Sub-trans. 12.0     8.2     0.8      9.0      75
            Reinforcement
5           Loss reduction materials   0.0      5.2     0.0      5.2
6           Project      Management 2.3         2.9     1.0      3.9      170
            Services and PMU
7           O&M contract               3.6      0.1     0.0      0.1      3
8           Power/Gas Master Plan 0.6           0.5     0.0      0.5      83
            Study
9           PSPIU                      1.7      0.4     0.5      0.9      53
10          I/O Study                  3.3      1.0     0.0      1.0      30
11          Training                   0.7      0.1     0.0      0.1      14
12          Vehicles      &     Other 0.0       0.3     0.0      0.3      -
            consultants



                                           - 36 -

             Total cost (incl. cont) ­ 60.0       52.5    2.9      55.4   92
             Hist Values
             Total cost (incl. cont) ­ 60.0       54.5    2.9      57.4   96
             Current values


7 Evaluation of Bank's performance:

The over all performance of the Bank was satisfactory except for the performance during the
peroration of the project where they included many covenants some of them are not easy to
implement or met during the project period. The original components of the project did not
include any materials for the loss reduction which were introduced at latter stage using the
savings from the credit with out any feasibility studies.

8. Evaluation of Borrower's performance:

The Borrower could not comply with some of the covenants in the credit agreement, including
the supply of the required fuel quality, the Borrower has not yet approved the Electricity Law,
the delay of the approval of the procurement of some of the project contracts.

9 Evaluation of implementing agencies performance

Despite the completion of the physical components of the project which has a satisfactory
technical, social and commercial impact, the implementing agency failed to comply with most
of the financial and Institutional strengthening covenants, implementing of the EMPs was not
completely satisfactory, there was delays of the approval of the procurement of some of the
contracts. One contract was only partially completed.

10. Key lessons learned:

The key lessons to be learnt from this project are:

-The design of the project should only include the covenants which are seen to be
implemented so agreed loan covenants need to be supported by appropriate action plans to
attain the desired level of the financial performance. Institutional strengthening, via
improvements in financial, accounting and management systems, increases the sustainability of
projects.

-All the technical specifications and the social and commercial factors for the physical
components should be prepared and studied by qualified engineers and specialists well before
the start of the project.

-The procurement procedures have to be followed strictly and the approval of emergency
cases should not be accepted.

-The selection of the Project Consultant is a key factor of smooth and successful



                                             - 37 -

implementation of the project who should be involved during the preparation stage of the
project.

-The rehabilitation of more than 20 years power plants should be studied very carefully
whether it is feasible to invest nearly the same amount of money to buy a new plant.

-Improving the financial performance of a power utility depends upon improving revenue
earnings which requires an upfront action during project preparation on areas including tariff
adjustments, loss reduction, improved billing and enhanced revenue collection measures.




                                              - 38 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results




                                      - 39 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

  Summary of Stakeholders' Workshop held in Sana'a on October 16, 2005.

  Overview

  The decision taken by the Bank to carryout out an intensive learning ICR of the SEPP was very
  relevant. The project from the technical point of view is complex and having an independent third
  party to assess the impact of the project gave the concerned parties the opportunity to explore their
  differences about the successes and failures of the project.         The performance of the consultant
  responsible for the Impact Evaluation study and criticisms embedded in report opened the way for
  candid discussions about the achievements under the project.

  The Minister of Electricity opened the workshop, which was attended by about 30 people, addressing
  the existing conditions in the electricity sector. The Minister mentioned that the Project achieved what
  he called direct objectives (physical works), except for the rehabilitation of the remaining two engines
  in Dhaban-1 plant.     As for the indirect objectives, he mentioned that the studies and strategies
  envisaged under the Project were successfully completed, but implementation of these strategies and
  recommendations of the studies will take some time and is beyond the scope of the SEPP.

  After the opening remarks of the Minister, the consultant who carried out the Impact Assessment Study
  presented his findings. It was clear that the time allocated for the workshop was too short to discuss at
  length these findings. The time allocated was not enough for the consultant to go through all the
  outputs and outcomes indicators included under the project. Time was crucial because most of the
  participants who came from outside PEC did not have the technical background to understand what
  was presented. In most of the cases the debates turned out to be between PEC's staff and the
  consultant. It was observed during the workshop that the participants from outside PEC seemed to
  appreciate the idea of having an independent body to carryout the assessment and present the findings
  in an open and transparent manner. It is therefore advisable that similar workshops should be carried
  out by PEC/MEW to discuss and disseminate information about the proposed Power Sector Project.

  Despite the time limitation noted above, the participants agreed with the conclusions of the consultant,
  but they do not agree (especially PEC's staff) on the reasons for not achieving of certain outputs. All
  participants agreed that the project objectives were unrealistic; PEC's problems are too complex to be
  solved by SEPP alone; there were implementation delays; although the project has closed already, there
  are still works to be completed; and finally there are still technical problems to be solved at Dhahban-2
  plant.

  The following are the summary of discussions on specific issues:

  Higher Efficiency and Reliability in Sana'a region

  1.1. Reduced load shedding from 50MW to 25MW and 5MW by end of 2001 and 2002 respectively.
  According to PEC this output was not achieved due to the rapid growth in the demand, which was not
  taken into account in the initial calculations. Nevertheless it was pointed out that SEPP has helped the
  power supply in Sana'a City a lot.

  1.2. Reduction in number and duration of power outages to <50% and <90% by end 2001 and 2002
  respectively. According to PEC this output was not obtained because the study did not look deeply to



                                                    - 40 -

the system as a whole and the causes of the outages before and after the Project i.e. the outages were
reduced by the Project, but are still high due the existing supply deficit that reaches around 125MW.

1.3. Reduced system loses to 33% and 31% by 2001 and 2002. This output was obtained but a
non-PEC participant wanted to know why they were still so high.

Improved Management of Public Electricity Authority's (PEC) Operating Units

2.1. Dhahban Power Plant (DPP) was to be operating as an autonomous cost center by March 1999.
This output was not achieved and no comments were provided by the participants.

2.2. Dhahban Power Plant was to operate under an effective O&M contract with a private company
by April 30, 2000.     This output was not achieved and there was a comment from one of the
participants about the need to find out the true reasons for not achieving this objective as a lesson
learnt.

2.3. Sale of power to PEC. This output was not achieved as DPP remained a part of PEC. No
comments were received from the participants.

Improved Management of PEC's Operating Unit

3.1 Design of comprehensive I+O reform to be completed by September 30, 1999. This output was
fulfilled. Agreement was reached to materialize PEC's reform agenda. However, the Minister pointed
out that the proposed reforms were no longer suitable to be introduced.

3.2    Satisfactory new tariff policy, structure, schedule, etc.    This output was not fulfilled.  No
comments were received from the participants.

Long Term Power Sector Expansion based on natural gas.

4.1 Satisfactory completion of power/gas master plan study. This output was fulfilled. No comments
were received from the participants.

4.2 New investment in power generation. This output was fulfilled but Dhahban-1 was completed
only 45% and Dhahban-2 completed over 90%.              Comments were received from the participants
regarding the technical problems at Dhahban-2, including excess smoke, but rectification measures are
underway. PEC will provide ear cover to people working inside the plant to protect them against
excess noise.




                                                 - 41 -

Additional Annex 10. Financial Performance of PEC

                                                                     Republic of Yemen
                                                            Public Electricity Corporation (PEC)
                                                  Comparison of Forecast and Actual : 1999 through 2004
                                                     (all values in YR million unless otherwise noted)

                                                 1999                 2000                  2001             2002            2003     2004
                                         Forecast     Actual    Forecast    Actual Forecast      Actual Forecast  Actual   Actual   Actual

Income Statement Items
Total Energy Sold (GWH)                       2,061     2,035       2,187    2,079      2,334    2,244     2,503   2,477    2,736    2,937
Average Revenue Rate (Rials/kWH)                9.10      7.54      10.80      9.18     10.80    10.92     10.80   11.90    12.10    12.03

Revenues                                     20,295   16,879       25,236   21,841    26,905     28,748  28,815   34,140   36,471   38,493
           Electricity Sales                 19,304   15,347       22,894   19,094    25,468     24,508  27,341   29,481   33,106   35,320
           Other Income                       1,281     1,532       1,346    2,747      1,413    4,240     1,483   4,659    3,365    3,173
Operating Expenses                                    24,303                28,266               37,903           39,693   39,510   42,620
           Fuel Cost                                  13,410                20,850               28,077           28,193   25,645   25,644
           Others                                     10,893                 7,416               9,826            11,500   13,865   16,976
Operating Income                              1,262   (7,425)       2,523 (6,425)       2,539   (9,155)    2,536  (5,553)  (3,040)  (4,127)
Net Income before Tax                            22   (7,746)       1,017 (6,712)       1,085   (9,161)    1,065  (5,562)  (3,052)  (4,150)


Fund Statement Items

Internal Sources                              3,266   (5,779)       5,124 (4,441)       5,558   (6,671)    5,556  (2,538)     895      794

External Sources
Equity & Other Sources                        6,582     3,178       7,915    8,118      3,117    60,400    3,103   9,792   20,034   23,193
Borrowings                                    4,974     5,734       5,815      554      2,402  (38,787)     553        0      468    (468)

   Total Sources                             14,822     3,415      18,854    4,442    11,077     15,747    9,212   9,127   21,042   24,026

Capital Expenditure                          10,222     8,139      11,747    5,363      5,113    11,415    3,407  20,751   24,144   22,941
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)           (369)   (4,958)        709 (1,784)         947     3,529        92 (12,886)  (3,597)     900
Increase (Decrease) in Cash                   1,943       (88)      2,795      577      1,572      797     2,607   1,253      483      163

Debt Service
           Principal Repayment                1,786          0      2,097        0      1,991         0    1,633       0        0        0
           Interest                           1,239       321       1,506      287      1,453         6    1,471       9       12       23
           Total Debt Service                 3,025       321       3,603      287      3,444         6    3,104       9       12       23

   Total Applications                        14,821     3,415      18,854    4,443    11,076     15,746    9,210   9,126   21,042   24,027


Balance Sheet Items

Current Assets
           Cash & Bank                                  1,308                1,884               2,681             3,934    4,417    4,580
           Accounts Receivable - Trade                  9,204                9,901               11,689           10,749   12,274   11,162
           Provisions for Bad Debts                       377                  495                 640               537      614      630
           Net Accounts Receivable                      8,827                9,406               11,049           10,212   11,661   10,531
           Accounts Receivable - Others (Net)           4,839                8,581               8,159             6,859   13,733    7,532
           Inventories                                  9,764               12,874               19,491           19,194   22,604   28,835
Current Assets                               10,457   24,738       15,293   32,745    17,656     41,381  20,948   40,199   52,414   51,478
           Less: Current Liabilities          9,560   29,417       10,892   38,632    10,736     42,942  11,327   53,393   68,722   66,723
Net Current Assets                              897   (4,679)       4,401 (5,887)       6,920   (1,561)    9,621 (13,194) (16,308) (15,245)

Net Fixed Assets                             49,025   45,256       58,172   48,635    60,265     57,566  60,653   75,301   95,510 113,530

   Total Assets                              49,922   40,577       62,573   42,749    67,185     56,005  70,274   62,107   79,202   98,285


Debt                                         14,167   39,286       18,159   40,051    18,912     2,069   18,263    3,942    4,055    4,094


Equity                                       45,259   35,996       52,901   44,114    55,675    104,513  58,346 114,305 134,338 157,531
Retained Earnings                            (9,505) (34,704)     (8,487) (41,416)    (7,402)  (50,577)  (6,336) (56,140) (59,191) (63,340)
   Total Liabilities and Equity              49,921   40,577       62,573   42,748    67,185     56,005  70,273   62,107   79,202   98,285

Financial Ratios

Operating Income as a % of Revenue              6%      -44%         10%      -29%        9%      -32%       9%     -16%      -8%    -11%
Net Income as a % of Revenue                    0%      -46%          4%      -31%        4%      -32%       4%     -16%      -8%    -11%
Return on Average Invested Capital              0%      -22%          2%      -17%        2%      -12%       2%      -5%      -2%      -3%
Debt Service Coverage                           1.07   -17.00        1.38    -14.54      1.46   -917.86     1.57  -261.98   89.57    43.72
Percent of Total Capital Expenditures
 financed by Internal Sources                  32%      -71%         44%      -83%      109%      -58%    163%      -12%      4%        3%
Current Ratio                                   1.09      0.84       1.40      0.85      1.64      0.96     1.85     0.75     0.76     0.77
Debt as a % of Total Capitalizations           40%    3041%          41%    1485%        39%        4%     35%        7%      5%        4%




                                                                                  - 42 -

- 43 -

