Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
0gui. >VbF/-7v'
Report No. P-4449-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US01500 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
January 28, 1987
fT'his document has a restricted distribution and may bE used by recipients only in the performance ofX
thieir official duties. Its conlents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TD)
CY1985                               Ten Months CY1986
US$1.00  =  TD 0.757                         US$1.00  =  TD 0.7B1
TD 1.00  =  US$1.321                         TD 1.00  =  US$1.281
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFI      : Industrial Land Agency
(Agence Fonciere IndustrielLe)
API         Industrial Investment Promotion Agency
(Agence de Promotion des Investissements)
APIA     : Agricultural Investment Promotion Agency
(Agence de Promotion des Investissements Agricoles)
ASAL     : Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BCT      : Central Bank
(Banque Centrale de Tunisie)
BDET     : Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(Banque de D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie)
BNDT     : National Bank for Tourism Development
(Banque Nationale pour le D6veloppement du Tourisme)
BTKD     : Tunisian-Kuwaiti Development Bank
(Banque Tuniso-Koweitienae de D6veloppement)
CFF      : Compensatory Financing of Export Fluctuations scheme
CEPEX    : Export Promotion Center
(Centre de Promotion des Exportations)
CNEI     : National Industrial Studies Center
(Centre National d'Etudes Industrielles)
CNSS     : National Social Security Fund
(Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale)
COTUNACE : Tunisian Export Credit Insurance Company
(Compagnie Tunisienne d'Assurance du Cr6dit a l'Exportation)
CPI      : Consumer Price Index
EMI      : Electrical and Mechanical Industries
FPC      : Exchange Equalization Fund
(Fonds de Perequation des Changes)
ICB      : International Competitive Bidding
MITAP    : Medium-Term Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Program
OCT      : Tunisian Trading Office
(Office du Commerce de Tunisie)
SME      :  Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE      :  Statement of Expenditures
SSI      : Small-Scale Industries
STUSID   :  Tunisian-Saudi Company for Investments and Development
(Socit&6 Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissements et de Dnveloppement)
TFD      : Customs Formalities Tax
(Taxe sur la Formalit4 Douaniere)
UTICA    : Tunisian Association of Industry, Commerce and Handicrafts
(Union Tunisienne de l'Industrie, du Commerce et de l'Artisanat)
VAT      : Value-Added Tax



FOR oMcwL us ONLY
REPUBUC OF TUNSLIA
INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POUICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Suaary
Dorrower:                          The Republic of Tunisia.
Amount:                            US$150.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                             17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Loan Description:                  The proposed Loan would support the first
phase of implementation of the Government's
program of industrial and trade policy
reforms, within the framework of a general
macro-economic restructuring program. The
Government's macro-economic restructuring
program is focusing on measures to limit
growth of domestic demand (wage and salary,
budget and monetary policies), to stimulate
growth of non-traditional exports (exchange
rate policies, export promotion), and to
improve the allocation and use of scarce
economic resources (interest rate
liberalization, gradual liberalization of
domestic prices, investments and imports);
it should also result in a more rapid
creation of new employment and reduced
underemployment. The principal actions
under the medium-term industrial and trade
policy adjustment program (MITAP) support
the macro-economic restructuring program
through: (i) a reform of the investment
code, liberalizing investment entirely
except when incentives are asked for; (ii)
a rationalization of policies on exchange
rate coverage of foreign borrowings by banks
and of central bank supervision of the
financial sector; (iii) studies of the
social security system, of the labor code
and of productivity standards with a view to
promote employment; (iv) a reform of
institutions dealing with the industrial and
trade sector; (v) a follow-through of
export promotion actions; and (vi) the
initiation of a tourism policy study with
the view to optimize the sector's capacity
in economic and financial terms. The
foreign exchange provided by the Loan would
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duts. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



be used to finance general imports based on
a negative list and technical assistance for
the study of productivity standards referred
to i (iii) above.
Benefits and Risks:               The reforms supported by the proposed Loan
are expected to create a more favorable
environment for overall economic and
sectoral growth at a time of resource
constraints. In particular, changes in the
overall incentives framework, investment
code, reform of institutions supporting the
sector and export promotion actions are
expected to make manufacturing a more
efficient producer of export products and
import substitutes. Risks relate to the
length and difficulty of the process,
possible social and political pressures,
unpredictable developments in the external
environment and uncertainties in the
response of the private sector. These risks
are limited by the Government's strong
commitment to the objectives of the
macro-economic and sector adjustment
programs, as evidenced inter alia by the
actions already taken, and by the inherent
flexibility of the phased medium-term
approach.
Estimated Disbursements:          The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed
in two tranches: US$100.0 million
equivalent after effectiveness; and US$50.0
million equivalent after implementation of
specific actions, including an overall
review of the implementation of the
macro-economic and sectoral reform programs.
Appraisal Report:                  This is a combined President's and Staff
Appraisal Report.
Map:                              No. IBRD 18707 of December 1984 (Tunisia -
General Features).



Table ot Contents
Part I - THE ECONOMY ................................................ I
Part II - THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .............. 4
A.   Structural Problems and the Need
for Structural Change .................................... 4
B.   Recent Policy Measures Taken By the Government ............. 6
C.   The Short- and Medium-Term Adjustment Program .............. 8
D.   Medium-Term Projections ................................... 13
E.   Social Impact of the Adjustment Program .................... 17
Part III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA .........................a 19
PMAT IV - THE MEDIUM-TERM INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT
PROGRAM ................................ * o . ...........****.  21
A.   The Need for Adjustment ...... .... .......................... 21
B.   The Medium-Term Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment
Program    ..    .......................  23
1.   The Incentives Framework ........ ..................... 24
2.   Government Support and Regulatory Institutions ........ 29
3.   Export Promotion ............................... 32
4.   Money and Credit .............................     ...... 33
5.   Taxation ................................... 36
6.   Industrial Employment .... ............................. 38
7.   Tourism Policy Study           .................................. 39
Part V - THE LOAN ........................................... 41
A.   Origin and Objectives .......................  .       .      . 41
B.   Action Program Under the Loan . .......................... 42
C. Loan Aduinistration                      .        ....  45
D.   Management, Coordination and Monitoring           . . .   48
E.   Justification and Risk                  ..................................... 48
Part VI - RECOMMENDATION           ........                              50
AE=
Annex I .    ......         Country Data
Annex II   .     .     ..... Status of Bank Operations
Annex III    .       ...... Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Annex IV .    ............. Letter of Economic Development Policy
Annex V      ..      ....... Letter on Industrial Development Policy
MAP
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which sojourned
in Tunisia in October 1986, comprised of Messrs. H. Bachsann (Mission Chief);
E. Savaya (Deputy Mission Chief); B. de Vuyst; H. Dinh; A. Edwards
(Consultant); J. Kientz (Consultant); and J. Lienert (Consultant).



[ITERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE                       OF THE BRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJTSTMENT LON
1.       I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$150 million to the Republic of Tunisia. It would
help to finance an industrial and trade policy adjustment program within the
framework of a general macro-economic restructuring effort. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic Memorandum:
Mid-term Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)", in two volumes
(No. 5328-TUN), was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1985.
An economic mission to review the macro-economic framework of the VIIth Plan
(1987-91) visited Tunisia in January 1986; its findings, as well as those
obtained at the time of appraisal of the proposed Loan in October 1986, and by
an IMF Article IV consultation mission in July 1986, are reflected in this
part and the country data attached in Annex I.
3.       Tunisia is a medium-sized, middle-income country, with a population
of 7.4 million, and a per capita income of about US$1,200.-" Much of
Tunisia is arid or semi-arid. Only 3% of arable land is irrigated, and areas
where rain-fed agriculture is possible are subject to severe year-to-year
fluctuations in rainfall. Nevertheless, agriculture still occupies nearly one
out of every three Tunisians in the labor force. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum and natural gas. Known exploitable
reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and the limited new
reserves require costly off-shore drilling. Barring large new oil and gas
discoveries, and given the rise in domestic energy demand, Tunisia is expected
to turn into a net oil importer in the early 1990s. The low quality of
phosphate deposits constrains the expansion of the highly efficient Tunisian
phosphate processing industry. The country also has considerable tourism
potential.
4.       Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to develop its human
resources, paying special attention to family welfare, education, and technical
and vocational training. As a result, between the early 1960s and the early
1980s, the infant mortality rate declined from almost 160 to 79, life
expectancy at birth rose from 48 to 62 years, the adult literacy rate
1986 preliminary at current prices and 1986 average exchange rate.



-2-
increased from about 151 to about 621, and average caloric intake per capita
increased from 951 to 121% of minimum standard requiremmnts. An active family
planning policy pursued by the Government led to a decrease in fertility and
birth rates. Even though mortality rates also decreased, the gross
reproduction rate decreased markedly from 3.5% to 2.41 over the same period.
However, mince net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by
restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya, the growth rate oE
the labor force accelerated, a main reason for the rapidly growing, serious
unemployment problem. Open unemployment reached 141 in 1983 and under-
employment is extensive. These problems are particularly serious among young
school dropouts.
5.       Recget Econoic Developments.  During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy
did well. Rapid growth in the range of 7-8% was accompanied by substantial
structural transformation as manufacturing and tourism became more important
and their share in total exports increased. Economic performance benefited
from substantial terms of trade gains due to the rapid price increase of oil,
allowing both consumption and domestic savings to increase and investment to
remain high (over 30% of GDP). It also benefited from improved economic
management with a cautious shift toward a more liberal, market-oriented
economy. The inflation rate remained modest, averaging 6.11 over the decade.
The balance of payments current account deficit, averaging 5% to 6% of GDP
over the period, was easily financed, much of it by direct foreign investment,
and the debt service ratio was a low 10.71 in 1979. The only major problem
was a persistently high rate of unemployment/underemployment.
6.       The VIth Plan (1982-86) proposed a number of policy reforms to face
the consequence of rising unemployment and the progressive decline in net
energy exports. Its sain objectives were employment generation, export
promotion, regional development and public sector efficiency. Investment
priority was given to agriculture, engineering industries and tourism. The
overall rate of investment was projected to decline during the Plan period.
To minimize the effects on economic growth and employment, measures were
proposed to increase the efficiency of existing investments and to encourage a
shift to labor-intensive activities. They were to be accompanied by a
substantially tightened income policy, in particular cautious wage and salary
policies, and a considerable slowdown in the growth of recurrent budget
expenditures.
7.      Economic performance, however, deteriorated during the Plan period.
First and foremost, economic growth slowed down considerably, with the annual
GDO growth rate averaging only about 3.71 coWpared to 6.31 targetted. Oil
production virtually stagnated throughout the period; in 1982 and 1986 serious
droughts depressed agricultural output and agro-industrial production;
production and exports of phosphate rock and phosphate products suffered from
depressed world market conditions; exports of manufactured goods were
adversely affected by a lower growth of demand in Europe, high domestic prices
and a sizable appreciation of the Tunisian Dinar vis-&-vis the currencies of
*st competitor countries as well as the US dollar; tourism suffered from the
sae problems as manufacturing industries, and furthermore was affected by the
unsettled political situation in neighboring countries, which hit Tunisian
tourism particularly hard.



8.       Secondly, the Government was slow in adjusting domestic demand to the
decelerated economic growth. In contrast to the Plan's macro-economic
objectives, the investment rate remained high rather than declined, mainly due
to high public enterprise investments in energy and transportation, and
domestic consumption expanded rapidly, fueled by sharp increases in wages and
salaries in 1982 and early 1983. This strong demand pressure, facilitated by
rather liberal credit policies, was reflected in rising inflation which
averaged nearly 10.5% in 1981-84, compared to 8.01 over 1977-St. It also
contributed substantially towards the marked worsening of the current account
deficit of the balance of payments, which rose to 111 of GDP in 1984. The
Government's overall budget deficit also increased slightly from an average of
2.71 of GD? in 1981-82 to 3.21 in 1983-84, excluding debt amortization. This
reflected increases in recurrent expenditures due to higher wage and salary
outlays; higher subsidy payments to households and public enterprises; and
higher public investments.
9.       The trend observed during 1981-84 clearly could not be sustained.
Faced with this deterioration, the Government started to implement a package
of policy measures aimed at stabilizing the economy as described in some
detail in Part II below. These measures together with the imposition of
drastic foreign exchange and import restrictions, brought the balance of
payments current account deficit back to about 7Z of GDP in 1985, despite
reduced exports of oil, phosphate, and manufactured goods to Libya. While
this improved the immediate situation, the underlying disequilibrium was not
resolved, and problems usually associated with controls, such as growing
shortages of raw materials, semi-finished products and spare parts, appeared.
For 1986, the Government expects a current account deficit of the balance of
payments close to 91 of GDP. Meanwhile, the budget deficit rose to 3.71 of
GDP in 1985 because of a slow growth in revenues, despite a substantial
decline of subsidy payments in real terms. The authorities prepared a
restrictive budget for 1986, as discussed below (para. 21).
10.      Over recent years, the Government had consulted informally with the
IMF on a wide variety of economic and financial issues, but had not asked for
financial support. Before and during the July 1986 Article IV consultation
mission, however, discussions started with the DMF on a possible stand-by
agreement cum compensatory financing facility. As a result, on November 4,
1986 the IDV Executive Board approved an 18 month stand-by arrangement in an
amount equivalent to SDR103.65 million and a purchase of SDR114.71 million
under the Compenaatory Financing of Export Fluctuations scheme.
11.      Social Issues.  Since independence, the country has gone a long way
towards meeting the basic needs of its population. Over 161 of GDP is now
devoted to social programs, and the number of absolute poor declined from 171
of total population in 1975 to 12.82 in 1980 (para. 48). This improvement was
largely concentrated, however, in urban areas. Since 1981, social issues have
faced a different context than in the 1970s, when an easy financial situation
allowed a relatively unconstrained expansion of social services. On the one
hand, the Tunisian population has become increasingly aware of and sensitive
to income distribution issues, and the beneficial effects of past rapid
expansion in social services have created a demand for improved standards in
social services delivery. On the other hand, the provision of adequate social
services - education, health, urban infrastructure, housing - is being
increasingly hampered by budgetary constraints. To reduce the financial



-4-
burden of social services, the administration is reviewing the coat structure
of the various types of social services, including free or below-cost
delivery, the possible Introduction of some user fees, and improved social
infrastructure management, in particular as regards hospitals. Also,
decentralization of social facilities to deprived zones will have to be
assessed carefully because the costs of servicing and maintaining them could
become prohibitive.
12.     To reduce socio-economic differences, in particular between rural and
urban areas, and between workers in the modern sector and those precariously
employed in informal activities, the Government is channelling more resources
into regional development and youth employment. Integrated rural programs are
being developed to stimulate creation of productive jobs and grassroots
participation. Subsidies and credit facilities are granted for young
technicians to create their own enterprises and for entrepreneurs to create
new projects in underdeveloped regions. More efforts are needed, however, to
strengthen the coordination of vocational and on-the-job training with market
denaad and to ensure that rural programs create economically viable and
sustainable assets and activities.
13.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt. During the second half of the
1970s, foreign borrowing was modest and a large share of foreign funds was
provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. At the end of 1979, debt
outstanding and disbursed was estimated at US$3.0 billion, or 42X of GDP; debt
service was less than 11% of export revenues. For reasons mentioned earlier
(para. 8), the balance of payments deficit has increased substantially since
then, as has foreign indebtedness. Total public foreign debt outstanding and
disbursed reached nearly US$4.4 billion (about 54t of GDP) at the end of 1985
aid the debt service ratio rose to 222. However, the Tunisian authorities
have always followed cautious debt management policies; while the share of
short-term borrowings has increased slightly since 1980, Tunisia's overall
foreign debt remains predominantly long- and medium-term, and debt service
requirements are projected to increase only slowly. During 198-85, over 601
of foreign loan disbursements were from official sources. and nearly 311 on
concessional terms. Nearly 702 of official disbursements came from bilateral
sources (mainly Arab oil producing countries, France, Japan, the Federal
Republic of Germany), 201 from the Bank Group, and 101 from other multilateral
sources. Overall borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 81 interest and
15 years maturity.
14.     The balance of payments and foreign debt outlook, including Tunisia's
creditworthiness, are assessed in paragraphs 43-46 below.
PART II- THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONODMC ADJUSTIENMT PROGRAM
A. Strutural Problems and the Need forStru Stwi ChaDg
15.      The brief description of recent economic trends and present situation
as presented above highlights three major problems facing the Tunisian economy
today, one rather immediate, two somewhat longer term. The imsediate problem
is the high and persistent deficit of the balance of payments current account,
and the consequent rapid increase in the country's foreign debt. As mentioned
above, after a slight improvement in 1985, the decline in oil prices, lower
tourism revenues, and lower workers' remittances have put further pressure on



the balance of payments in 1986. While tbhre is no danger of an immediate
crisis, the situation cannot be allowed to continue much longer. The two
longer term, but equally important, problems are the progressive decline in
net hydrocarbon exports, requiring the development of other sources of export
revenues and import substitution (non-traditional exports, tourism,
agriculture), as well as the high and growing unemployment and underemployment
rate and the danger of an even worse trend given the high rate of growth of
the active population, at a time of lower overall economic growth.
16.      No single policy instrument can deal successfully with all three
problem areas; only a carefully balanced and timed package of different policy
measures can do so. Such a comprehensive policy package should be based on
three main considerations:
(a)  a return to an export driven growth strategsy, as was pursued quite
successfully until 1981, is a key to the success of any future
development program aiming to achieve satisfactory economic growth
and employment creation, given Tunisia's limited domestic marketL1
and the fact that most obvious import substitution industries are
already well developed. With petroleum production ceasing to be a
major engine of export growth, and export possibilities in agriculture
limited by market constraints in the EEC, manufacturing will have to
become much more export oriented than in the past, when it catered
primarily to domestic demand fueled by high petroleum revenues. This
requires fundamental changes in industrial policies so as to increase
incentives to export. Such changes are also necessary to revitalize
existing export oriented economic activities, such as tourism, and to
promote efficient import substitution in agriculture where Tunisia
has some substantial comparative advantages;
(b) a major improvement in the efficiency of resource use and allocation
is required. With the highly profitable production and export of
petroleum declining progressively, economic resources in Tunisia,
domestic as well as foreign and private as well as public, will
become increasingly scarce. Under these circumstances, the country
can only achieve a satisfactory rate of overall economic growth and
an acceptable level of new employment creation if it uses and
allocates these resources with the utmost efficiency. The
liberalization measures covering prices, investments and imports,
included in the Government's economic adjustment program, serve
primarily to improve efficiency in the private sector by gradually
introducing more competition, while proposed changes in budget
policies, public investments and public enterprise management would
improve efficiency in the public sector; and
(c) last but not least, economic development must become much more labor
intensive in order to create more employment in spite of lower
overall economic growth. Future increases in production should be
obtained mostly through increasing the number of employed workers and
new investments should serve mostly to create new employment. This
would be achieved through a marked change in relative factor costs,
making labor less expensive relative to capital. Macro-economic
Less than 101 that of Switzerland or about 51 that of Spain.



-6-
projections indicate that if real salaries had continued to
increase by 4.5-52 per year, as was the case during thu 1970m,
and if interest rate. had continued to be largely negative in
real term, not even half as many new jobs would be created
during the period of the Vllth Plan (1987-91) as necessary to
absorb the rising number of now job seekers. Furthermore,
priority must be given to the development of labor-intensive
sectors with relatively low investment costs such as seall and
medium enterprises, electrical and mechanical industries, and
agriculture. There is in fact, a substantial potential for
employment creation in these sectors.
B. Recent Poicy Measure Taken by the Governnent
17.      The Government of Tunisia had recognized the importance of such
economic adjustments already during preparation of the VIth Development Plan
(1982-86) and a substantial number of concrete policy changes have been
implemented over the last few years, as detailed in this section, some of them
bold and often unpopular. These efforts need to be pursued and expanded over
the coming years, along the lines presented in Section C below.
18.      For the last four years, the Government has pursued strict wage and
salary policies. Since January 1983, when wage increases were delinked from
the cost of living index, no general salary increases have been granted. As a
result, average real salaries have declined by more than 152. This decline
has eliminated the main source of the rapid increase in domestic consumption
experienced during 1980-83. While the Government raised the minimum salary by
102 in July 1986, other salaries were not increased in 1986 and are not
planned to be in 1987.
19.      Exchange rate policies have become more flexible since mid-1985,
resulting in a gradual downward adjustment of the exchange rate by over 18%
vis-a-Yvis a basket of seven currencies between mid-1985 and mid-1986.
Together with the formal devaluation of 92 announced in mid-August 1986, this
has reduced by about 272 the nominal exchange rate on a trade weighted
average, more vis-&-vis the major European currencies (DM, FF), less visa--vis
the U.S. dollar. While the real effective exchange rate has depreciated
somewhat less by an estimated 222, these changes nevertheless made it possible
to more than offset the rise in the value of the Dinar in relation to
competitor country currencies observed over the last couple of years, and so
to improve the competitiveness of Tunisia's non-traditional exports.
20.     The Government has also started to use interest rate policies as a
more active instrument of economic policy making. For the first time in four
years, general interest rates were raised by 1-2 points in April 1985 and by
3-4 points for the particularly low special rates in the Spring of 1986.
Together with the 1.7 point decline in the inflation rate in 1985, itself a
very satisfactory achievement (from 8.2 to 6.5%), these nominal interest rate
increases raised real interest rates by 3-5 points; most rates are now
positive in real terms, in line with the recomuendations of the Bank's
Financial Sector Report (No. 5263-TUN of December 16, 1985). As agreed with
the IMF, interest rates have been set free on January 1, 1987 on about 751 of



-7-
all londing operations (i.e. all except for export activities, agriculture,
small and medium-aized business, and energy savings projects) and on over
two-thirds of all deposits with co mme rcial banks.
21.      Budgetary outlays.  As mentioned above (para. 9), 1985 ended with a
worse overall budget deficit (3.7% of GDP) in spite of a nearly 10% decline in
subsidy outlay. (in real term) am Governmnt revenues from oil and import
taxes stagnated or declined slightly. In 1986, the situation improved
gradually, in spite of a further decline in revenues, reflocting
lower oil prices and depressed imports. Through a number of tough masures
introduced in a revised mid-year budget, the Government reduced total budget
outlays (net of debt service) by some 8% in real terms as a first stop 1n a
program of gradually reducing the size of public intervention in the economy.
Sales taxes on alcoholic beverages and tobacco were raised; recurrent
expenditures (net of interest payments) hardly increased in real terms, and
subsidies to households and public enterprises as well as development outlays
(net of debt amortization) were reduced by 19% in real terms. As a result,
the overall deficit is expected to decline to 3.51 of GDP. The substantial
reductions in subsidy outlays reflect the Government's policies of gradually
adjusting the prices of goods subsidized by the budget and the tariffs charged
by public enterprises for their services.
22.      For several years, agricultural producer prices have gradually been
decontrolled and the ones still controlled (particularly cereals and milk)
have been raised more rapidly than inflation. As a result, by end-1985,
nearly 75% of domestic agricultural production was sold freely in the domestic
market and/or exported. As agreed with the Bank under the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (ASAL-Loan No. 2754 of 1986), producer prices will gradually
be aligned with border prices, while in the past they were determined by the
estimated cost of production.
23.      Investment controls, while not reduced, have been streamlined, and
focused more sharply on new investment priorities. Among others, renewal
investments and investments in tourism (other than hotels) receive priority
and incentives similar to those of investments in other sectors.
24.      Export promotion.  A number of measures have been taken to stimulate
exports, streamline export procedures, establish export credit and insurance,
develop export marketing, and facilitate re-exports, in line witb the
recommendations of the Bank's Industrial Policy Mission of January 1985. They
pertain to:
-    elimination of export licenses, except for subsidized goods;
-    partial elimination of export taxes;
-    improvements in the system for reimbursing import duties and taxes,
by including the Customs Formalities Tax (TPf) in the reimbursement,
by granting reimbursement at the time of customs clearance or even
after export, and by opening up the possibility of reimbursing the
actual exporter (who is not necessarily the importer);
-    improved customs arrangements for temporary admission  and
warehousing (para. 96);



-8-
increased opportunities for export pre-financing from 101 to 201 of
project costs;
extending the authorized periods for settling export transactions and
repatriating the proceeds from 90 to 180 days;
expanded opportunities for forward coverage of exchange risks to 6-8
months;
liberalizing the use of accounts in convertible currencies and
increasing the amounts that may be taken out of the country for
business travel;
introduction of a system of export credit insurance wi-h the first
policies issued by the Tunisian Export Credit Insurance Company
(COTUNACE) in mid-1985;
establishment of a number of export companies, several of which have
already begun operations;
establishment in 1985 of an export promotion fund to finance a
variety of export promotion measures;
establishment of two export promotion committees, one in the Central
Bank (BeCT) and the other in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, to
deal with day to day problems at the working level.
C. The Short- and Medium-Term Adjustment Prorm
25.      As indicated in paragraph 9 above, the package of policy changes
implemented by the Government over the last few years has shown some positive
results, particularly concerning private domestic demand and the budget
deficit; however, its restrictive elements have also created a number of
problems, such as the lack of essential imports for directly productive
activities. Over the coning years, two kinds of actions are of vital
importance: (a) to maintain and strengthen the positive measures already
taken; and (b) to complement these measures through changes in other fields
destined to reinforce the effectiveness of the program and minimize its
adverse effects. Included in this second group are measures to restructure
the economy through a progressive liberalization ineluding prices, investments
and imports. This program of macro-economic adjustment peasures is supported
by two policy based loans; one focusing on agricultuine (ASAL, signed October
3, 1986), and the other focusing on iadustry and trade (this proposed Loan).
It is described below, as well as ir.nthe Government's Letter of Economic
Development Policy (Annex IV). It is' in agreement with the adjustment program
presented by the Tunisian Governmicent to the IMF as a basis for the recent
stand-by arrangement and the CFF (para. 10).-
26.      Wage and salaty policy.  Maintaining cautious wage and salary policies
may well be the single..most important policy measure to achieve a long-term
sustainable balance of payments equilibrium and more rapid employment creation;
it can also contribute significantly to achieving a rapid improvement in the
present balance of payments deficit. Wages and salaries are an important



-9
determinant of (a) domestic demand and in consequence of import demand;
(b) the cost of production of manufactured goods and services, and consequently
of the competitiveness of Tunisia's manufactured exports and tourism; and
(c) relative factor costs and, thus, the labor intensity oE future economic
activities and growth of employment. The Government is determined to maintain
the restrictive wage and salary policies started in 1983 and to limit the
growth of the total wage bill to that of GDP during 1988-91, while limiting it
to less than the increase of the CPI in 1986-87, when only the minimum wage is
raised. While such measures will slow down the improvement in the standard of
living of the labor force already employed, they are necessary and adequate to
speed up the creation of new employment and, thus, reduce unemployment and
improve income distribution.
27.      Exchange rate policy.  An appropriate exchange rate, allowing for
competitive exports of non-oil/non-phosphate goods and services is a vital
pre-condition for the success of an export-oriented growth strategy in Tunisia.
The measures taken since mid-1985 have achieved this goal. The Government has
committed itself to pursuing a flexible exchange rate policy with the
objective of maintaining the real effective value of the Dinar and ensuring
the international competitiveness of the Tunisian economy. Any adjustments in
the exchange rate will be reflected, among others, in domestic producer prices
for agricultural products.
28.      Regarding interest rates, as a result of measures taken in 1985 and
early 1986, most rates are now positive. Considering that most of these rates
were set free on January 1, 1987, they are expected to remain well above the
expected rate of inflation of about 6.51 p.a. during 1987-91.
29.      As mentioned above (para. 21), budget outlays have been cut
considerably in 1986. In the context of the VIIth Development Plan, the
Government plans further reductions in the overall budget deficit over the
coming years; in order to achieve its balance of payments and foreign debt
targets during the VIIth Plan and beyond (paras. 43-46), the Government
intends to eliminate the overall budget deficit by 1991 at the latest (see
Table 1). This objective would be achieved largely through cuts in
expenditures, since budgetary revenue is already high (nearly 311 of GDP), and
is likely to increase less rapidly than GDP, given declining oil incomes, low
growth of imports and the proposed reduction in many customs tariffs (para.
35), as well as the tax incentives given for exports and regional
development. Even given the planned major Government effort to mobilize new
sources of revenues (improved collection of direct taxes, full introduction of
the VAT, introduction of additional sales taxes on luxury goods), a gradual
decline in total budget revenues as a percentage of GDP is virtually
unavoidable.



- 10 -
Table 1: OVERALL BUDGET TARGETS
(In percentage of GDP, net of debt amortization)
Average Annual
1985     1986     1987    1988    1991    Growth 86-91
Actual  Estimates  -    Projected  -      In Real Terms
Revenues                31.5     30.9      30.0    29.0    27.0         0.2
Recurrent expenditures  23.9     25.0      24.0    23.0    21.0        -1.3
Capital expenditures    11.3      9.4       8.0     7.5     6.0        -2.3
Total Expenditures      35.2     34.4      32.0    30.5    27.0        -1.6
Overall deficit          3.7      3.5       2.0     1.5     -
30.      Under these circumstances, gradual achievement of a balanced overall
budget requires substantial reductions of expenditures in real terms as well
as in relation to GDP. These can be achieved without impairing the provision
of appropriate social and economic services by the Government, through careful
setting of priorities among budgetary outlays. The recommendations of the
Bank's recent Public Expenditure mission will be providing an important input
into this task. For recurrent expenditures, it ran be achieved primarily
through two measures: (a) a considerable slow-down in the growth of salary
outlays as the hiring of civil servants will be limited to a maximum of 21
p.a., and salary increases will be as limited as in the private sector; and
(b) a systematic reduction in subsidies of 51 p.a. in nominal terms.
Achievement of the latter objective will be aided by the public enterprise
reform that the Government started in 1985 and plans to pursue more vigorously
over the coming years; this reform aims at reducing the number of public
enterprises and decreasing the deficits of the ones that will remain in the
public sector. In addition, the Government is in the process of devising new
policies to focus consumer subsidies more strongly on the really needy and to
do away with the present across-the-board subsidization of the entire
population (para. 49). For capital expenditures the reductions will be
achieved by reducing Government subsidies and capital contributions to the
remaining public enterprises, whose capital requirements will be progressively
covered by their own increasing cash flow generation and by borrowings from
development banks. Direct Government investments in social and other
infrastructure would be maintained at about the present level in real terms.
31.     Monetary and credit policies have been quite expansionary over recent
years, with growth of money circulation (22) exceeding that of GDP by a
substantial margin (17X p.a. vs. 141 p.a. on average during 1981-85) in spite
of comprehensive Central Bank controls. The Government intends to prevent the
growth of money circulation during 1986-91 from exceeding that of GDP, and
will keep it below that under normal circumstances. Given the considerable
projected decline in the Government's overall budget deficit and, thus, in its



- 11 -
need for new borrowing, tighter monetary and credit policies can be followed
without hampering productive investments in the private sector. As agreed
with the IDF, this tighter and more careful management of money and credit
will be achieved through a major change in the Central Bank's instruments of
money supply mangenent. In particular, Central Bank discounts at fixed rates
will be limited to priority sectors (agriculture, exports, SSIs, energy
saving), while the banks will have to raise the bulk of their funds on the
money market at the daily rate, subject to ceilings based on their deposits.
32.      The liberalization program.  As mentioned above (para. 16), a major
improvement in the allocation and use of economic resources, as well as in the
relative incentives for export production compared to production for the
domestic market, are key pre-conditions for Tunisia to achieve satisfactory
economic growth and employment creation at a time of tightening balance of
payments constraints. Progressive liberalization of the economy and
introduction of more competition - domestic as well as foreign - is the only
effective way to achieve this. Given the fact that Tunisia's modern sector
bas operated for decades in a highly controlled and well protected
environment, the necessary phasing out of controls on prices, investments and
imports should be closely coordinated. The Government is determined to
complete the phasing out of controls before the end of the VIIth Plan (1991).
33.      Price controls.  In addition to the ongoing gradual decontrol of
agricultural producer prices, the Government intends to abolish price controls
for all manufactured goods by 1991, with the exception of a small number of
key staples such as bread and edible oils. In a first phase (1986 -
mid-1988), controls will be abolished (i) in well established industries where
the number of domestic producers is sufficiently large to ensure appropriate
competition. The list of such industries, which account for about 602 of
total manufacturing output, and a schedule for the decontrol of their prices
is included in the Letter of Economic Development Policy. In accordance with
that list, prices have been liberalized on September 1, 1986 for a first group
of products, and for a second group on January 2, 1987; and (ii) for all
products whose imports will be liberalized over the same period, i.e. all raw
materials, spare parts, capital goods and most semi-manufactures. These
account for an estimated additional 12-15% of total manufacturing output. In
a second pbase (mid-1988 - end-1990), the controls will be abolished in all
other industries. With respect to those products for which price controls
will continue for an interim period, a new more flexible price control system
will be introduced in early 1987, which avoids the major shortcomings of the
present cost-plus system, such as over-investment, low use of installed
capacities, and lack of incentives to control production costs, including
energy use. The new system will allow the enterprises to adjust prices
unilaterally and to apply the new price following a reasonable lapse of time,
provided there is no justified objection on the part of the Government.
Criteria for price adjustments would include-in addition to changes in
production costs-the stated objective of gradually closing the gap between
controlled domestic prices and prices to be paid for imports so as to avoid to
the extent possible any major and abrupt price changes at the time prices and
imports of a given good are liberalized. Prices, thus, would become more
market oriented.
34.      Investment controls.  At present, all new investments need Government
approval, including replacement investments and expansions of existing
installations. At the same time, investment incentives are provided to
virtually all approved investment projects. As discussed in detail in Part IV



- 12 -
of this report (paras. 69-85), the new investment legislation to be introduced
in early 1987 foresees the inmediate, full decontrol of all investments.
Government approval will be limited to the granting of a number of special
investment incentives; however, these will be available only to a restricted
number of high priority projects, particularly export industries and new
investments creating employment in the most underdeveloped areas of the
country.
35.      Import liberalization is the third essential liberalization measure
without which the effects of price and investment liberalization would remain
very limited. It is also essential to improve incentives for export
production, by making production for the local market less attractive.
The Government intends to take two sets ot measures in this respect:
(a) to phase out all quantitative restrictions an imports before the end
of 1990 except for a limited number of infant industries which might
receive quantitative piotection not exceeding three years in
exceptional circumstances. In line with the country's import
priorities, liberalization has started with spare parts for use in
industry, agriculture, hotels, hospitals and other services, raw
materials and semi-finished products for enterprises that export at
least 25% of their output, and capital goods for new investment
projects approved by the Industrial Investment Promotion Agency
(API), the Agricultural Investment Promotion Agency (APIA) and the
Tourism Investment Board after October 1, 1986; these measures became
effective in November 1986. They were followed on January 2, 1987,
by the liberalization of semi-finished products for firms that are
well integrated or that export at least 151 of their output, as well
as all other raw materials and spare parts. Imports of capital goods
and of the remaining semi-finished products will be decontrolled by
January 1988. As a result of the above measures, about 75% of all
imports would be liberalized by the end of 1988. During 1989-90, all
remaining quantitative restrictions, essentially on consumer goods
imports, would be phased out; and
(b) to reform the tariff system by reducing high import tariffs and the
disparities in the levels of effective protection between the
different sectors of the economy with the aim of achieving a lower
and reasonably uniform effective protection rate of about 25% by the
end of the VIIth Plan. To achieve this objective, the Government
intends to prepare a program of gradual tariff reductions for
implementation over the 1989-91 period. As an interim measure, it
has amended the present tariff system on January 1, 1987 so that
there is a universal minimum tariff of 151, all existing tariffs
between 25% and 311 are reduced to 25% and all tariffs presently
between 321 and 56% are reduced by 6 percentage points, and all
higher tariffs are reduced to a maximum of 501. Not later than
January 1, 1988 all tariffs then being between 251 and 34% will be
reduced to 25% and all tariffs between 351 and 501 will be reduced by
9 percentage points. The Government intends to replace some of these
reduced import tariffs by domestic sales taxes covering imports as
well as domestically produced goods.



- 13 -
36.      In line with its policy of progressive import liberalization, the
Government also decided in the Fall of 1986 to apply for full membership in
GATT. Tunisia has been a provisional member for several years.
37.     The entire macro development program, as described above and in the
Government's Letter of Economic Development Policy (Annex IV) would be
monitored by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (with assistance from the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce and the Central Bank) and by Bank missions
(parn. 141). Bank confirmation of satisfactory progress in implementation of
the overall program would be a condition of second tranche release (para. 139).
D. Medinu-Tenm Proiecons
38.     As mentioned above, the economic adjustment program is aimed at
achieving three major objectives. First, the direct export promotion measures
together with the exchange rate adjustments and reduced import protection
would stimulate the growth of non-oil exports to over 7% p.a., compared to an
estimated 3.3% achieved during the VIth Plan. Second, the pricing and
investment incentive policies aimed at raising the efficiency of resource
utilization and allocation would reduce the investment rate from 28Z of GDP in
the last five years to 22% during the VIIth Plan without seriously affecting
output growth, and would reduce the incremental capital-output ratio from the
present high level of 10.4 to 6.3 between 1986-91. Third, the substarLial
changes in relative factor costs would stimulate the creation of new
employment, expected to average between 50,000 and 55,000 new jobs p.a. or a
2.5-3f p.a. increase over the Plan period. Even this nearly 16% increase over
the VIth Plan actual figures, however, will only permit absorption of about
70% of new job seekers.
39.      Concerning growth of GDP (Table 2), the decline in the production and
export of oil tends to overshadow at first glance the projected substantial
improvements in the non-oil sectors, particularly when compared with
historical performance. Such improvement is vital for Tunisia to achieve a
satisfactory overall growth over the coming years. Table 2 shows that even
though the average GDP growth of the VIIth Plan is somewhat lower than that of
the VIth, the growth of non-oil industries is substantially higher (5.8%
compared to 4.21 p.a.). Agriculture's performance (4.3% compared to 4% p.a.)
is a reflection of the exceptionally good recovery of agriculture in 1987
following a decline in 1986; the projected 3.5% p.a. growth of the sector in
other normal years is significantly better than the 1.61 achieved during the
1976-81 period. Output of the non-oil productive sectors is expected to
increase rapidly, as a result of direct measures stimulating the agricultural
and industrial sectors (improving productivity and efficiency of rain-fed and
irrigation agriculture, improving land use policy, strengthening export
promotion measures and institutions) and indirect measures affecting the
incentives framework. Developments in the oil sector are heavily influenced
by world oil prices, as the production of small oil fields would only become
attractive if oil prices increase again substantially. The present outlook is
for production of crude to decline to 3.6 million tons by the end of the VIlth
Plan, while in early 1986 the projection had been for 4.4 million tons. In
1985/86, actual production averaged 5.2 million tons. Production of
associated gas would decline in parallel.



- 14 -
Table 2: GROWTH OF OUTPUT AND EXPENDITURES '
(Annual growth rates in percentage)
1976-81        1981-86         1986-91
(Actuals)    (Preliminary)    (Projected)
GDP (up)                        6.1            3.6              3.4
Agriculture                     1.6            4.0              4.3
Industry                        8.9            3.0              3.1
Hydrocarbon                   (8.3)           (0.2)          (-5 .9)
Non hydrocarbon               (9.2)           (4.2)           (5.8)
Services                        6.5             3.9             3.4
Consumption                     7.4            4.2              2.7
Private                       (7.8)           (4.1)           (2.9)
Public                        (5.8)           (4.5)           (2.0)
Gross Investment                6.6           -3.9              4.0
Imports GNFS                   10.8           -2.4              1.6 '6
Exports GMFS                    8.5             0.8             2.8
/a Constant 1980 prices and calculated by least squares.
lb Growth rate is exceptionally high because bad weather conditions in 1986
provide a low base.
Ic Due to reduction in oil imports on account of the new refinery.
Source: Ministry of Planning and Finance and Appraisal Mission estimates.
40.     The two major exports of goods (table 3), oil and phosphate
derivatives, are affected by two factors in addition to a depressed price
outlook!'. The coming on stream of the refinery extension at Bizerte will
reduce crude oil exports by 1.5 million tons, as more Tunisian crude will be
processed locally for domestic consumption. While recently completed
fertilizer plants could increase exports of phosphate derivatives by over 91
p.a., it is likely that this capacity cannot be fully utilized in view of the
projected glut in world supply, and of the poor quality of indigenous
phosphate rocks. These exports are, thus, expected to grow by little more
than 7.51 p.a. during 1986-91.
41.      In consequence, manufacturing industries (other than phosphate
processing), tourism and agriculture will have to become the major engines of
future export growth. Assuming that the policy measures concerning the
agricultural sector agreed under ASAL are implemented in a timely fashion,
there should be a significant reduction in the agricultural trade deficit
through reduced imports and increased exports. Overall, manufactured exports
excluding phosphate derivatives are expected to grow at 9.31 p.a., with the
greatest potential in electrical and mechanical products, textile and other
manufacturing industries. Tourism is expected to resume a more satisfactory
growth at 61 p.a., albeit not at the rate experienced during the late 1970s
(over 91 pa.).
The medium-term projections assume an oil price of US$13.5 per barrel in
1986, gradually increasing to US$19, in current prices, in 1991, while
the price of TSP, the major fertilizer product of Tunisia, is expected to
increase from the present level of US$130 to US$169 per metric ton.



- 15 -
Table 3: GROWTE OF EXPORTS
(Average Annual growth rates, constant 1980 prices)
1976-81       1981-86         1986-91      1986 Share
(Actual)   (Preliminary)   (Projected)    of Exports
(Preliminary)
Agricultural Products       2.4           0.7           4.0             3.5
Crude Petroleum             7.4          -4.9         -20.2            15.0
Phosphate + Derives         2.7           4.1           7.5            13.5
Processed Food             -3.4           8.5           5.5             4.8
Textiles                   23.7           3.7           7.8            18.7
ElectricaltMechanical      23.9           8.3          12.5             4.5
Other Goods                 6.8           1.6          20.0             2.4
NFS                         9.2           2.4           6.1            37.6
Total Exports, GNFS         8.5           0.8           2.8           100.0
Total, excluding
petroleum                  9.0           3.3           7.3            85.0
Source: Ministry of Planning and Finance and Appraisal Mission estimates.
42.      Concernina imports, the pivotal role of exports in generating
economic growth will require corresponding increases in imports, particularly
of raw materials and intermediate goods needed for industrial growth; growth
of these imports is assumed to be at par with industrial growth, allowance
being made for the expected improvement in efficiency. The elasticity of
energy consumption would decline to 1 during the VIIth Plan, compared to 1.3
at the present time, reflecting a continued energy conservation effort being
supported, in part, by a recent Bank loan. Total energy imports are expected
to decline by 5.91 p.a. throughout the period, partly as a result of the
refinery extension mentioned above. In addition to stimulating exports, the
policy measures proposed by the Government are expected to substantially
sti=wlate import substitution of agricultural products.  As a consequence, the
growth rate of food imports is expected to decline substantially from 5.31
p.a. during 1977-86 to slightly less than 1% during the VIIth Plan, despite a
rapid growth of the population (2.5% p.a.) and of food processing industries
(41 p.a.). The greatest potential in this category includes wheat, barley,
milk and beef. Imports of other consumer goods are likely to remain low
during 1986-88, due to the impact of short-term stabilization measures, which
are expected to keep growth of domestic consumption below that of total GDP;
they are expected to pick up rapidly thereafter as growth resumes and the
impact of import liberalization begins to be felt.
43.      Balance of payments and external debt.  Emigration has slowed down in
the face of weakening demand for foreign workers in Europe. in Libya and in
the countries of the Arab peninsula, and therefore inflows of workers'
remittances are expected to decline slightly in real terms. -Over the past
five years, these remittances have averaged over 161 of commodity exports,



- 16 -
equivalent to about 4t of GDP. Given this and the above-discussed export and
import outlook, the current account deficit is expected to decline from about
US$810 million, or 9.21 of GDP in 1986, to about US$400 million, or 3.41 of
GDP in 1991. In view of the depressed oil price outlook and assuming no major
new oil field discoveries, direct foreign investment is expected to remain at
the current level in real terms, with non-oil investments increasing rapidly
but oil investments declining substantially.
Table 4: TUNISIA - PROJECTED BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(Millions of current dollars)
(With adjustment )'t
Actual                    Projected
1985          1986         1987        1991
Exports of Goods and NFS           2,699.9        2,638       2,920        3,894
Imports of Goods and NHS           3,207.1       3,374        3,529       4,242
Net Factor Services + Transfers      -81.4          -75         -84          -50
Current Account Deficit              588.6          811         693          398
Net Foreign Investment               139.5          137         118          195
Public M & LT Borrowing (gross)      750.6        1,130       1,301        1,018
Amortization on N & LT Debt          436.5          567         588          821
Public N & LT Borrowing (net)        314.2          562         713          197
Selected Financial Indicators
Debt Service Ratio (I of exports
of goods and services)              22.4           29.3        28.0         27.9
Current Account Deficit
(1 of GDP)                           7.1           9.2          7.9          3.4
/a This includes the effects of the Government's adjustment program described
herein.
Source: Ministry of Planning and Finance and Appraisal Mission estimates.
44.      Gross foreign loan disbursements required to finance such a current
account deficit, to repay maturing debt and to increase reserves to a level
equivalent to 1.6 month of imports by end 1988, would average about US$1.2
billion annually during 1987-91. Over 701 of this would come from official
sources, compared to 601 in the last three years. Debt outstanding and
disbursed as a percentage of GDP would increase from an average of about 551
in 1985/86 to about 611 ia 1991 (after a peak of 671 in 1988), while the debt
service ratio would be 27.91. Average borrowing terms are not expected to
harden much.  The average interest rates would remain in the 6-7S range
between 1987-91, while the average maturity would be within the current range
of 15-17 years.



- 17 -
45.      This scenario obviously hinges on the policy changes to be initiated
during the next few years, in particular on a timely implementation of policy
measures to accelerate exports, reduce public investments, slow down growth of
domestic demand and liberalize the economy by phasing out regulations and
controls. As mentioned in Section B above, the Government has already taken
several steps in implementing such a strategy. Considering its long record of
prudent external debt management, there are good grounds to assume that Tunisia
will implement the necessary policy changes along the lines discussed above and
remain creditworthy for a continued high volume of Bank lending.
46.      Domestic resource mobilization.  With exports growing faster than
imports, the resource gap is expected to decline to about 31 of GDP by the end
of the VIIth Plan. This still rather high overall gap, however, disguises a
strenuous effort in savings mobilization in the non-oil sectors. Indeed, the
non-oil resource gap declines from an average of 14% of GDP in 1984/85 to
about 2.61 in 1991. The marginal propensity to save over the period 1987-91
is estimated at a high 26% (in current prices), assuming successful
implementation of the structural reforms to control domestic demand. Limiting
Central Government current budget expenditures to below 211 of GDP and capital
expenditures net of debt repayment to about 6% of GDP by the end of the VIIth
Plan period should allow public sector savings to finance over 70% of public
sector investment (including public enterprises), up from 432 in 1984/85, and
should increase the percentage of overall investment financing by domestic
savings to about 901 on average over the period. While this would help to
reduce the pressure on the balance of payments, it also gives a clear signal
to the private sector that the public sector investment.program will not lead
to a crowding out of private investments but rather will supplement it by
providing the necessary infrastructure.
47.      The medium-term framework discussed above corresponds largely with
the Government's own planning scenario for the VIIth Plan. While there are
clearly downside risks involving such exogenous factors as the growth of the
vorld economy, in particular in the EEC countries, and movements in
international prices, it is clear from the analysis of the recent past that
there is no alternative to the proposed export-oriented strategy.  Slower
export growth would lead rapidly to slower GDP growth, in order to keep the
balance of payments manageable.  Such a situation would greatly worsen the
unemployment rate. As mentioned above, even implementation of the full
structural adjustment program will not allow absorption of more than 70% of
new job seekers during 1987-91; any lesser effort would further worsen the
unemployment situation with serious political and social consequences.
E. Socia Inpact of the Adjustment Programp
48.      According to the latest household survey, almost 12.8% of the total
Tunisian population (823,000 persons) was living below the absolute poverty
level in 1980.1' Most of the poor and lower income groups are located in
rural areas, followed by smaller towns; these groups account for about 141 of
In 1980, the absolute poverty level was TD 60/person/year in rural areas
and TD 120/person/year in urban areas.



- 18 -
the total rural population, and 122 of the total urban population. They are
largely employed in agriculture (431) ard construction (161), where
significant underemployment exists. Over 18S of the total work force in
construction, 161 in agriculture, 141 in mining and 10 in transport are
considered to be poor. They spend almost 851 of their budget on fulfilling
their basic needs for food, housing and clothing.
49.      The Government's program of economic adjustment could worsen the
situation of the absolutely poor in two major ways: (i) through the gradual
reduction of budget subsidies; and (ii) through increases in consumer prices
triggered by changes in the exchange rate and increases in agricultural
producer prices. The present system of consumer subsidies is clearly
i portant to the well being of the poorest segment of the population, as such
subsidies account for nearly 191 of their total expenditures - 20% for the
urban poor and 171 for the rural poor. However, the subsidies overwhelmingly
profit the better off segments of the population, with over 601 of all
consuser subsidies going to the highest income groups, and only less than 1OZ
going to the absolute poor, particularly to the urban poor (61). This
situation means that while it would appear socially and politically impossible
and undesirable to deprive the absolutely poor from the support they currently
receive, there is ample room to reduce consumer subsidies by as much as 901
without taking away anything from the really poor. This requires that ways
and means be found to target this assistance more directly to the really needy.
The Government is clearly aware of this situation; it recently established a
Special Commission to study how to target and efficiently distribute consumer
subsidies, so as to gradually introduce a more focussed and less expensive
system of support for the poor as overall subsidy outlays are reduced.
50.      The adjustment program also  includes a number of important measures
designed to improve the situation of the poor: (a) the rural poor,
particularly in rain-fed areas, will profit from increased agricultural
producer prices as well as from increases in agricultural production for
i port substitution and exports; (b) the urban poor will profit from the
increase in the minimum wage introduced in mid-1986; (c) both groups will
profit from the stimulating effects of the adjustment measures on employment
creation, as export industries, agriculture and tourism are all relatively
labor-intensive sectors. As the bulk of the absolute poor are employed in
sectors with a high underemployment rate, the expected more rapid creation of
mew employment and decline in underemployment ought to have a sizable effect
on the standard of living of the poor labor force employed in the modern
sector. Given the considerable under-utilized production capacity existing in
several key export sectors such as textiles and tourism, the adjustment
program is expected to show a positive, although limited, impact on employment
alucst imnediately; in the longer term, it will be more pronounced. As
referred to in para. 16, continuation of past macro policies would have
limited the creation of new employment in the Tunisian economy to little more
than 35,000 per year on average over the period of the VIIth Plan; this is
less than half the expected number of new job seekers.  As a result of the
mcro sad sector adjustment programs, supported by the Bank, the number of new
jobs created over this period is expected to average between 50,000 and 55,000
p.a., quite a substantial difference; and (d) given the fact that the informal
sector will benefit little from minimumn wage changes and the other measures
mentioned above, the Government has initiated several specific programs for
the support and development of this sector (para. 12).



_19 -
PART m - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNEIA
51.      Since 1962, the Bank haa committed to Tunisia seventy-two loans and
ten IDA credits amounting respectively to US$1,625.5 million and US$75.2
million (net of cancellations) of which forty-five loana and credits have been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1986. Project implenentation
is generally satisfactory. As of September 30, 1986, overall disbursements
amouated to 561 of appraisal estimates, which is in line with experience in
other countries in the region. Disbursement performance for agriculture,
energy, water supply and sewerage, highway and port projects has generally
been above the country average, while longer than average disbursement delays
have been experienced for education, healtb, technical assistance and urban
projects, due to project-specific problems that are being addressed through
supervision missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors,
important policy changes and institutional improvements have been achieved,
and autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the
efficient management of the related sectors or sub-sectors.
52.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting the
country's transition from a situation of reliance on petroleum exports to a
sectorally-balanced post-hydrocarbon era through appropriate changes in
economic policies and programs as described in Part II above, while taking
measures to increase employment and target development to low income groups.
In support of the above, the overall objective of Bank lending is to emphasize
projects which have a direct and rapid impact on production, employment and
exports (or import savings) and which minimize Government net contributions.
The focus of lending for agriculture and industry meets this objective. In
addition to the above, proposed Bank lending would focus on improvement of
public enterprise performance, conservation and development of energy
resources, and continued support to the social sectors and operations targeted
to low income groups. For the latter, attention would be given to increased
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of institutions and investments, and to
linkages with directly productive sectors (e.g., education reforms stressing
vocational training). We envisage only marginal lending for basic economic
infrastructure, focussed in areas where Bank guidance would still be useful,
such as rural water supply and highways maintenance.
53.     Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investmentB in
infrastructure and social development, with increasing support in recent years
for agriculture and industrial financing. Bank/IDA comuitments to date are
distributed as follows: urban, water supply and sewerage, 231; agriculture,
291; industry. 201; transport, 131; energy, 91; education, 4X; and health and
technical assistance, 11 each. Within the broad framework noted in the
previous paragraph, in our future lending, we expect a continuation of
policy-based lending and traditional project lending in priority areas, for
example,in the next couple of years, highway maintenance and forestry and
credit lines to small-scale industries and agriculture.
54.      The dialogue between the Government of Tunisia and the Bank on
industrial development is of long standing and has kept evolving over time.
Through its first loans to industry, the Bank aimed at providing general



- 20 -
support to industrial development; later on, it aimed at promoting industrial
exports and labor-intensive industries, and financing high priority industries
(e.g. electrical and mechanical industries (EMI) and small-scale industries
(SSI) ) in support of their priority in the Government's strategy. Bank
support to industrial development in Tunisia has consisted mostly of lines of
credit to the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET), which has now
received eight Bank loans totalling US$129.16 million (net of cancellations)
of which US$11.39 million remain undisbursed as of September 30, 1986. Most
of these funds financed manufacturing industries; first through unrestricted
lines of credit (Loan 1504-TUN and part of Loan 2113-TUN), then through lines
of credit with special foci: on SSIs (Loans 1505-TUN and 1969-TUN) and EMI
(Loan 2113-TUN). A credit line for a pilot SSI scheme (Loan 1505-TUN in 1978)
prepared the ground for a US$30 million loan to SSIo (Loan 1969-TUN in 1981)
that used for the first time commercial banks along with BDET as an
intermediate. Two 1985 loans, for export industries (Loan 2522-TIN) and for
EMI (Loan 2554-TUN), also used two of the new bilateral development banks,
Tunisian-Kuwaiti Development Bank (BTKD) and Tunisian-Saudi Company for
Investments and Development (STUSID) as intermediary along with BDET.
55.      In addition to the lines of credit provided to BDET, four loans were
made directly to industrial enterprises in Tunisia: the first was in 1974
(Loan 1042-TUN) to the Gafsa phosphate mining company to introduce advanced
mining technology. It was followed in 1984 by a technical assistance loan for
the mining sector (Loan 2346-TUN). A loan to SOGITEX in 1981 (Loan 2012-TUN)
aimed at rehabilitating the textile industry. Finally, a foundry project
(Loan 2301-TUN) was approved in 1983 to modernize and expand a large foundry,
SOFOMECA, which should help improve the integration of the EMI sector in
Tunisia. In 1982 the Bank made a loan to the Government which included a
component to develop and promote new industrial projects (Loan 2197-TUN). The
two main agencies involved were CEPEX (to study export promotion) and CNEI (to
study specific sub-sectors and their potential for growth).
56.      The Bank's economic and sector work will address the increasing
complexity of the macro-economic and sector problems that Tunisia will face in
the medium term, and continue to focus on strengthening the macro-economic and
sector base for our lending program. However, while in the past it was mainly
devoted to the study of major structural problems, it is now focused on
implementing the policy recommendations of these studies through sector
lending in agriculture, industry and trade, public enterprises and transport;
it will therefore concentrate on the following msin tasks: (a) preparation and
monitoring of the macro-economic framework of the VIIth Plan, which provides
the policy base for structural adjustment and sector lending; (b) review of
public expenditures under the VlIth Plan to provide guidance for the necessary
reductions in budget outlays and a basis for support through structural
adjustment lending; (c) assessment of public enterprise reforms prepared by
the Government to reduce their drain on the state budget; and (d) monitoring
of the agreed macro-economic and sector policy changes. The program also
includes studies on education administration and finance, municipal finance
and development, energy pricing, and the impact of the adjustment program on
various income groups.
57.      The Bank accounted for about 272 of total comuitments from official
sources to Tunisia during 1982-1985. Its share in total debt outstanding and
disbursed at the end of 1985 (including loans from private sources) reached



- 21 -
about 12.11 and its share in debt service during 1985 was 13.61 (excluding
IDA). The share of the Bank in Tunisia's disbursed external debt is expected
to increase to about 231 and it. share in the debt service to about 21% in
1991.
58.      As of September 30, 1986, IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled
about US$18.5 million. IFC has supported BDET to foster development projects,
and the National Bank for Tourism Development (BNDT) to promote and invest in
tourism projects.  It has also assiuted the Sociht6 Touristiouc et H8teliAre,
a large hotel development; the Industries Chimipues du Fluor (ICF), a producer
of aluminum fluoride from local fluorspar for export; and the Sociht6 d'Etudes
et de DAveloppement de Sousse-Nord for an integrated tourism development
project. In FY85, IFC approved an equity investment in Fluobar, a project to
privatize, rehabilitate and expand an existing fluorspar mine.  Two
investments in Tunisia Leasing Company, the first leasing company in Tunisia
to provide financing to the industrial sector, were approved in FY85 and
FY86. In FY86, IFC also approved an equity investment in Soci6th Industrielle
de Textiles (SITEX) which would help privatize an existing state-owned textile
mill, and an equity investment in Adwya S.A., a company which will produce
pharmaceutical products from imported active ingredients. In FY87, IFC
approved an investment in Rozzi Edilizzia Industrializzata Tunisia (REITSA).
This project's objective is to manufacture a panel-based, integrated
construction system for use in low-rise, medium cost housing.
PART IV - THE MEDIUM-TERM INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE ADJUSIMENT PROGRAM
A. The Need for Adjustment
59.      Tunisia, like many other countries that became independent in the
L950s and 1960s., began developing its manufacturing industry by concentrating
an import substituting activities. In line with the shift in development
strategy to open up the economy, Tunisia put gradually more emphasis on
export-oriented industries during the 1970s, particularly textiles, while
still pursuing an import substitution strategy behind a high level of
protection. To generate employment without placing producers for local
markets under excessive competitive pressure, the export industries were
grouped into an enclave environment called off-shore industries. A policy of
relatively generous investment incentives was followed to promote the growth
of manufacturing. Where progress was lacking despite the higb protection and
investment incentives, the public sector seized the initiative and public
enterprises were established. These now account for a significant share of
manufacturing value added and investment (nearly 60%) with a particularly high
concentration in phosphate processing, building materials and
electro-mechanical industries.  Generous investment incentives, relatively low
interest rates, and rapid increases in wages resulted in manufacturing..
industries that are rather capital intensive, particularly among public R
enterprises.
60.      These policies were quite successful during the 1970s and early
1980s, when they resulted in a rapid increase in manufacturing production and
exports, averaging about 91 p.a. each in constant prices over 1971-1984, or
nearly twice the growth of total GDP and total exports. Nevertheless,
manufacturing remained a small part of the economy, accounting for only 142 of
GDP ln 1985, and about 201 of employment; it also remained .ittle.;
export-oriented.  Although manufactured exports accounted fkr otie thi0d-of



total exports in 1985, only the;resource-based phooptate processing industry
(821 exported) and the largely off-shore textile industry (45% exported) are
major exporters. All other manufacturing sub-sectors sell on average cver 901
of their production on the domestic market. This overwhelming orientation
towards the domestic market did not present much of a bottleneck during the
1970. and earlj 1980s when manufacturing was still very small, possibilities
for import substitution were large, and domestic demand expanded rapidly,
fueled by the two massive world-wide oll price increases and substantial
increases in local salaries.   tr. mid-3P980s, however, the limits of the
past growth strategy became obvlous: by ik,n the sector was no longer that
small, the most obvious import substitutiion activities were all covered and
growth of domestic demand slowed down markedly because of declining oil
production and oil prices as well as wage freezes that began in early 1983.
This revealed the very small size of the domestic market wnich, as mentioned
before, is less than 10% that of Switzerland or 51 that of Spain.
Furthermore, at about the same time, the only two export-oriented sub-sectors
encountered increasing export difficulties; phosphate-based fertilizer because
of depressed world market conditions and textiles because of increasing
protectionism and sLow growth of demand in Western Europe.
61.      Two other weaknesses bi:ame increasingly apparent over the last
years, namely the extreme dependence of manufacturing production upon imports
and the high production costs. Given Tunisia's very limited endowment with
raw materials, food processing aad ferttli.;zer production are the only two
sub-sectors that use a significant aaauvt of domestic inputs and the latter is
crucially dependent on imports of sulfur.4 <Ths,, when foreign exchange
earnings fell in 1985, the sharp import restrictions introduced in consequence
have seriously hampered the normal functi.vtoig of manufacturing enterprises,
as the country.simply could not afford to import all the inputs needed to
permit these enterprises to produce at or near capacity.
62.      Production costs became high for a variety of reasons, but most
importantly because of inefficiencies fostered by hlgh import protection and
large investment incentives granted almost indiscriniinately to' new
enterprises, leading to an uneconomic choice of projects, high
over-investments, sloppy management, low labor productivity and little regard
for quality. In addition, labor costs were quite high, in particular after
the large raises in salaries in 1982 and early 1983 which were exacerbated by
high social security charges on employers. !inally, the appreciation of the
Tunisian Dinar during the early 1980s eroded the copetitiveness of
manufactured exports.
63.      Over the coming years, economic policies in the manufacturing sector
will have to focus predominantly on stimulating exports, particularly in
non-traditinnal sub-sectors, and this for two reasons: (i) togetber with
tourism, manufactured exports will have to make up for most of-the declining
oil exports as well as for stagnating workers' remittances; and (ii) given the
very limited size of the domestic market, manufacturing production can grow
only at a satisfactory rate and create a satisfactory amount of new employment
if the sector starts to export on a mich larger scale.  In fact, in many
sub-sectors, satisfactory economies of scale,can only be achieved if
production for the domestic market is supl1erented by substantial production
for exports.  The fact that Tunisian export industries tend to be particularly
labor intensive is an additional argument in favor of manufactured exports at
a time of increasing unemployment and underemployment.



- 23 -
64.     To implement such an export-oriented growth strategy, Tunisia can
count on a number of comparative advantages, in particular its geographic
location and easy access to Western Europe (roll-on/roll-off service), very
important for fashion products, its well trained labor force and its political
stability. Substantial export possibilities exist in textiles and leather
goods, EMI's and a number of miscellaneous industries.  Implementation of the
macro-economic adjustment program as outlined above, supplemented by the
industry specific program of adjustments outlined below will go a long way to
stimulate such exports.
65.     The development strategy for the manufacturing sector should in the
short tern concentrate on improving the efEiciency of existing manufacturing
activities and increasing capacity. utilization by intensifying competition,
both domestic and foreign, to which the sector is exposed. In the longer
term, it should aim to concentrate investments more strictly on the
economically most profitable activities, by enhancing the responsiveness of
allocating factors of production to market signals. All the policy measures
required to implement the short-term strategy - such as maintaining an
appropriate exchange rate, increasing the reliance on the market and on
adjustments in relative prices to achieve better resource allocation, and
utilizing both domestic and foreign competition to improve the efficiency of
domestic production - are consistent with the longer-term strategy.
B. The Medium-Term Industria and Trade Policy Adjiatment Program
Objectives
66.      The Medium-Term Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Program
(MITAP) complements and reinforces the macro-economic policy adjustment
program with three specific objectives in mind:
(i)       to stimulate growth of manufacturing production in the
short-term through better use of existing installations and in
the longer term through an increased private sector role in
investments;
(ii)      to stimulate exports of manufactured products, other than
fertilizers; and
(iii)     to stimulate creation of productive employment in manufacturing
industries.
Waile the macro-economic adjustment program is essential to the creation of an
overall economic climate conducive to the achievement of the above objectives,
there is a wide range of sectoral measures that can, and ought to be taken so
as to strengthen the program in these three respects.
67.     First and foremost, establishing an appropriate incentives framework
is essential to the achievement of all three of the above objectives. This
framework has to provide adequate incentives for private investors, encourage
investments for exports, promote better capacity utilization and encourage
entrepreneurs to invest in labor-intensive sectors and technologies.
Decontrolling of investments, including the phasing out of Central Bank
controls on individual credit applications, is important to encourage private
invtments. Reducing labor costs to employers will help achieve all three



- 24 -
objectives, be it through reduction in unit costs or through increased
productivity. More flexible rules for hiring and laying off workers would
facilitate the process of enterprise adjustment and make entrepreneurs more
willing to hire additional employees. Last but not least, further
improvements in government institutions dealing with private investments and
exports and further streamlining of government regulations concerning imports
and exports are an important part of the program.
68.      Linked to the objective of stimulating private investment is the
issue of public enterprise reform and privatization, consistent with the
Government's desire to get the public sector out of manufacturing activities
as rapidly as possible. Given the preponderance,of public investments in this
sector, this, obviously, is a long term process. This Loan is preparing the
ground for this change through its macro and sectoral policy changes to make
it more attractive for private entrepreneurs, not only to invest in new
projects, but also to take over public enterprises. This Loan is not directly
concerned, however, with public enterprise reform and privatization; this
would be the main task of the Public Enterprises Mission, scheduled for
January-February 1987, in preparation for a possible Public Enterprise Sector
Loan.
L The Ineentives Framework
69.     The new investment code to be implemented in early 1987 as part of
the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Program, brings about a number of
important improvements over the existing law; it is a major step in the
decontrol of the economy. First and foremost, it abolishes all Government
investment licensing and controls. Government authorization would be required
only for the granting of special investment incentives which will be available
to no more thau an estimated 25-30% of all new investments; all investments
not eligible for such incentives, or not requesting them, can be implemented
without any prior Government approval. Second, the number and importance of
incentives is reduced substantially and those incentives no longer
discriminate among sectors or against labor-intensive, small and replacement
investments. Third, incentives are to be granted almost automatically to all
enterprises meeting specified criteria. This would reduce to a minimum, the
discretionary power of the Government's Incentives Approval Committee.
Finally, Government considers these incentives as temporary measures to be
reviewed and possibly phased out by the end of the VIIth Plan.
Reurd qM
70.     Tunisia's present investment laws require prior Government approval
for all manufacturing investments by the Industrial Investment Promotion
Agency (API), whose Board includes representatives from all the main economic
ministries. Once approved, all investments automatically get a wide range of
incentives, except replacement and renewal investments and those creating less
than ten new jobs. The incentives themselves are divided into two separate
systems; one, applies only to firms exporting all their output, though limited
home market sales are authorized; most of these firms are in practice offshore
processing operations, many are foreign-controlled, with a heavy concentration
in clothing. The law gives tax and import duty exemptions for all imports of
inputs and capital goods, and exemptions from profit taxes for 20 years, plus
other tax concessions. The other system applies to some 951 of all
investments in Tunisian manufacturing, including firms which export part of
their output. This law exempts capital goods imports, for new and extension



- 25 -
projects, from all customs duties (in excess of the minimum duty), and gives
some direct tax relief to all firms. Partial exporters and investments in
particularly underdeveloped areas of the country get substantial additional
profit tax concessions; the former can obtain tax and duty-free those raw
materials and semi-finished goods to be incorporated in exports, and the
latter benefit from reductions in social charges, get job creation subsidies,
and subsidized industrial land. Concessions are also given to encourage
multi-shift operations, the development of local capital goods manufacturing,
more technologically advanced operations, energy savings and above-average
levels of Tunisian value added.
71.     The present system bas been regarded as too bureaucratic and
ineffective in screening out poor projects; incentives were judged to be too
complex, insufficiently selective, and often unnecessarily generous. They
tended to favor capital rather than labor-intensive projects and to
discriminate against small projects and replacement investments. The system
did not focus enough on Tunisia's main current economic priorities, such as
export promotion and employment creation. Finally, the comprehensive
investmeut control system is no longer in tune with the general liberalization
of the economy and massive incentives are no longer justified, given the fact
that the new macro-economic policies will remove many of the distortions which
the existing system sought to compensate for. Accordingly, a new investment
law has been drawn up and discussed in detail with the Bank. It will be
presented to the National Assembly before this Loan becomes effective and
should be adopted well before the second tranche release. Incentives for
companies exporting all their output are little affected by the proposed new
law even though they are now dealt with in the same code as the ones applying
to other companies.  For other enterprises, however, the changes are
sweeping. The new law is simpler, more selective in granting special
incentives, but at the same time it is more balanced and neutral in terms of
giving appropriate encouragement to all investments (including those outside
the mnufacturing sector) through automatic "common law" concessions.
The Continued Need For Incentives
72.      There are a number of reasons to maintain a reduced arsenal of
investment incentives to be granted on a selective basis during the period of
the VIlth Plan: (i) since import protection and price controls are being
phased out only gradually (1986-90), existing distortions will not be
eliminated immediately and some investment incentives will continue to be
needed to compensate for these. In particular, it is necessary to improve
after tax returns from production for exports vis-a-vis that for the home
market (at present, generally far more profitable); (ii) continued incentives
are also needed to attract foreign investment, particularly in production for
export since virtually all competitor countries offer a wide range of tax and
other incentives, and the few who do not, have far lower rates of both direct
and indirect taxation; (iii) the prevailing imbalance in the provision of
Government infrastructure to the detriment of outlying areas justifies the
granting of special investment incentives in those areas to rectify this
situation; and finally (iv) the macro-economic changes now being introduced
are not selective enough to permit a sharper focus on employment creation in
the most disadvantaged parts of the country, one of the government's main
preoccupations; in most countries, salaries tend to be lower in outlying areas
than in industrial centres, but the current nationwide system of wage fixing



- 26 -
means that this is not presently the case in Tunisia. Until this can be
modified, other means will have to be used to reduce labor costs in the West
and the South.
The New vhestment Law
73.      The new law brings about six important changes:
a)   All investment controls are abolished.  No prior investment
authorization will be required, only a simple declaration for
statistical purposes.
b)   Only a limited number of investments, considered particularly
important to the economic and social development of Tunisia,
will be eligible to receive special investment incentives after
approval by the Investment Incentives Approval Committee, the
secretariat of which will be provided by API (para. 90). They
will apply only to enterprises exporting part of their output,
to those creating new jobs in certain high priority areas of the
country and to those introducing new, improved technologies.
c)   Special incentives are to be granted automatically, provided
specified criteria are met. The two main criteria - exports
and location - are clear cut. Only the relatively minor
incentives for the acquisition and adaptation of new
technologies are based upon an approval process that involves,
unavoidably, a judgmental element.
d)   The incentives will no longer make any distinction between
projects of different sizes, nor among new, extension or
replacement investments; thus, small and replacement investments
will no longer be discriminated against.
e)   The new incentives will be much less generous than under the old
law, as some major ones are being withdrawn. In particular,
only off-shore enterprises exporting all their output will
continue to benefit from cuts in tariffs on capital goods
imports. Thus, the bias in tariff exemptions against
labor-intensive projects has been reduced markedly, even though
capital goods remain exempt from turnover taxes, whether
imported or purchased domestically.
f)   All incentives, apart from some relating to export operations
(e.g., duty exemptions on materials imports and export profits)
and to encourage multi-shift production, are temporary in
nature; they are either linked to the act of investing, or
extend over a maximum of six years (ten years for off-shore
companies).
74.      As is the case now, a number of other investment incentives are
available as "common law" rights to investments in all sectors without need
for prior Government approval. They affect in particular, those enterprises
exporting part of their output. In addition, they provide encouragement



- 27 -
linked to the introduction of multi-shift work. All were available already
under the old law but could only be obtained after prior Government approval
of the investment project.
75.      A general incentive to new investments is provided under these
"comon law" provisions in the form of an exemption from the income or profit
tax on that part of personal income or enterprises' profits used to subscribe
to the initial share capital of a new enterprise or to increases in its
capital. For individuals 301 of the amount invested will be tax-exempt, for
companies 502; for share capital subscriptions in enterprises exporting one
fifth or more of their output, exemption will be increased to 501 and 702,
respectively.
76.      The most important "common law" concessions are those given to direct
as well as indirect exporters in all sectors:
a)   Imports of products to be processed for re-export will be
admitted tax- and duty-free under temporary admission or
industrial warehousing systems.
b)   Local purchases of products and services needed for export
production will be free of turnover taxes.
c)   Exemption from company profits tax of the same proportion of
profits as exports form of company turnover.
77.      To encourage better capacity utilization through multi-shift
production, half of employers' contributions to the National Social Security
Fund (CNSS) will be borne by the Government budget for workers hired for newly
introduced additional shifts, except for continuous process industries.
78.      Two special incentives are given, after Government approval, to those
exporting one fifth or more of their output. They will be:
a)  Exemption from tax on distributed profits, or interest, up to
101 of the nominal value of the shares, during the first three
years of operations (20 years for off-shore companies).
b)   Accelerated depreciation provisions.
79.      In addition, the following special concessions are to be given to
encourage the creation of new jobs in particularly underdeveloped areas of the
country:
a)   In "centers of first priority" designated as such in the
regional development scheme where there are Government
industrial estates run by the Industrial Land Agency (AFI), or,
on AFI approved sites, the cost of infrastructure on such
estates or sites will be borne by Government. In "centers of
second priority" the Government will bear half the costs.
b)   The Government will bear the cost of the employers'
contributions to CNSS and to the housing fund for three years
(six years in "first priority centers") with regard to new or
extension projects in the most underdeveloped areas, and will



- 28 -
also exempt these employers from the training tax for three
years. The total benefit of this incentive is equivalent to
191 of wage costs.
c)   Of much less importance are the limited profit-tax exemptions,
reducing such taxes to a rate of 5-10 for a period of
7-10 years.
80.      New investments in particularly underdeveloped regions will, thus, no
longer profit from cash subsidies for job creation. However, exemptions
granted from contributions to the main social security fund and the housing
fund are somewhat more generous than under the old system; while the old
system gave on average exemptions equivalent to 10.6% of the total wage bill
over 4 years, the new one will give a 17% exemption for 3 years (plus 14% for
an additional 3 years in "first priority centers"). The primary focus of the
regional incentives, nevertheless, is on removing the disadvantages of these
areas in respect to infrastructural services. In fact, the most important
incentive granted under this title consists of the Government providing high
priority infrastructure.
81.      Finally, a number of minor special advantages are granted:
a)   Introduction of adapted new technologies will be encouraged by
the Government bearing part of the extra training and other
costs involved up to a maximum of 52 of equipment costs, or
1D200,000, whichever is smaller;
b)   To encourage domestic production of capital goods, all imported
inputs used in the production of such goods will bear a tax not
exceeding that applicable to imports of the equivalent finished
capital good; the arrangements would be agreed upon
case-by-case.  Furthermore, the Government can subsidize fully
or partially the purchase of patents;
c)   To encourage the reopening of closed enterprises (by a new
owner), the Government can grant special fiscal advantages and
subsidize social contributions by employers.
82.      As already noted, the new proposed law represents a substantial
improvement over the old code. Clearly, the most important change,
representing a major step in liberalizing the economy, is that investments
which request no special incentives will in the future need no prior
Government authorization.  This improvement is reinforced by the fact that the
proportion of investments qualifying for special incentives - almost all at
present - will be substantially reduced since special incentives will be
granted more selectively. Firms which do not export and which are based in
industrial areas along Tunisia's East coast will get no incentives at all
(apart from the few qualifying for limited concessions for technological
transfer or capital goods production). Approximately 70% of new projects are
not likely to qualify for special incentives and so will not need to apply for
any kind of Governmnt approval under the new system. Moreover, it is likely
that the number of new projects actually applying for special investment



- 29 -
incentives will be even lower since many promoters of small projects in the
most underdeveloped areas qualifying for such incentives, may often not bother
to request them; for example, if they are not intending to locate on an AFI
industrial estate, if employees are not officially registered (as is often the
case in the informal sector), and if there is no formal share capital or no
dividends are paid, there are no benefits to be derived.
83.     Another major change is that the system should be far more simple and
automatic in operation. An a consequence, the discretionary investment
approval powers that have hitherto dominated API's activities, should become
very limited and of only minor significance and will be transfered to an
independent committee (para. 90). This is particularly so since many
important incentives, including most of the ones for exporters, are
sector-neutral and available as "common law" rights, including to
non-manufacturing enterprises, as part of the general tax and customs codes.
They could thus be obtained automatically without approval by the new
Investment Incentives Approval Conmittee.
84.     The final big change it; that the special incentives themselves are
less generous, less complex to apply, and not discriminatory against smaller
projects, replacement investments, or labor-intensive enterprises. Most
importantly, the new law will no longer grant duty-free imports of equipment.
On the other hand, all import tariffs on equipment goods will be reduced in
the 1987 budget law, with the objective of achieving a level of effective
protection of around 251 for such goods.
85.     An interim measure, however, is envisaged to cover the period between
the introduction of the new investment law in early 1987 and the
liberalization of capital equipment imports at the beginning of 1988. A
procedure is being established to allow those firms whose investments will no
longer need approval to receive the necessary authority to import the capital
equipment.
2. Governmet Support and Re atory n      ns
B6.     Implementation of the macro-economic adjustment program and the full
decontrol of investments in early 1987 will require major changes in
institutions dealing with the manufacturing sector to reflect the shift in
emphasis from control to promotion. Furthermore, overlapping responsibilities
have to be reduced, coordination has to be improved, and the participation of
the private sector has to be strengthened; among others, the private sector
has to assume greater responsibility in financing the institutions that
support the manufacturing sector. The role of these institutions was
initially conceived to assist the private sector by providing guidance and
information to local and foreign investors and facilitating the launching of
projects.  Over the years, however, their role evolved into that of protecting
existing industries through increasingly tight investment regulations and
controls. As new needs arose, over 10 of these institutions were created
including API, AFI, CEPEX, CNEI, and three technical centers.
87.     The most visible of these institutions is API, created in 1973 to
pramete investment. The initial objectives were to assist investors by
proaiding information and technical advice to overcome bureaucratic hurdles
created by the Government. Since then, API has become predominantly an
investment regulating agency, approving new projects in certain sectors and



-30 -
not in otbers, often on the ground of product saturation in the local market.
In recent years, this role has gained added importance as the foreign exchange
shortage required the securing of API's agreement before an import license for
investment goods can be granted. API also provided some technical assistance
to SSIs and follow-up on project implementation. Its pre-investment
identification activities were assisted by the CNEI, which was initially
created to provide technical and managerial assistance to SSIs.  CNEI now
concentrates its efforts on sectoral surveys and studies for large projects,
predominantly in the public sector. Technical assistance in post-investment
phases is now provided by the three technical centers (leather and footwear,
mechanical and electrical industries, building materials). Industrial estates
are established by AFI. Exports are promoted by CEPEX aided by a new private
group, the Federation of Exporters (FEDEX), a specialized organization within
the largest employers organization in Tunisia, the Tunisian Association of
Industry, Commerce and Handicrafts (UTICA).
88.      The Government is fully aware of the need to refocus several of these
public institutions, streamline their activities and improve coordination
among thes. In the longer term, it also envisages to turn many of them over
to the private sector, or at least have them financed by the private users
through charge-back schemes. Recently, the head of API was also made the
president of AFI, while senior managers of these institutions have been named
to the board of one another. API now collaborates closely with development
banks and with the technical centers in the preparation of projects. The
presidents of the technical centers are also non-voting members of API's Board
of Directors. CEPEB and the Tunisian Trading Office (OCT) are in the process
of creating joint representative offices abroad. Reflecting the investment
liberalization decision, API's department of investment approval and control
has been replaced by a legal department which plays a much reduced role,
largely to determine whether investments requesting incentives are eligible
and qualified.
89.      These efforts need to be continued and strengthened.  In particular,
the introduction of the new Investment Code will alter completely the nature
of API's activities. With investment control fully abolished in early 1987,
its role has to revert to that of an investment promoter. It will need to
actively seek and identify new investment opportunities, as well as to promote
subcontracting and industrial linkages. The MITAP would seek to strengthen
this role through merging CNEI and AFI into API. CNEI's many years of
experience and knowledge on industrial sector studies will be a considerable
asset in this endeavor.
90.      Since the new Investment Code abolishes investment licensing, there
is a need for an approval process of speciar investment incentives only. API
will continue to act as secretariat to the Approvals Connittee in charge of
implementing the Investment Code. To leave no doubt in the mind of investors,
as well as of API itself, on the priority to be attached to its promotional
role, this Committee will be fully independent from API's Board of Directors
with the latter focusing exclusively on supervising and guiding the agency's
promotional activities.
91.     To avoid duplicating efforts in export promotion and to save foreign
exchange, the MITAP calls for merging the promotional work of OCT with CEPEX.
The former is concerned with a large number of activities ranging from
importing for the Government, to the controlling of exports of subsidized



- 31 -
products, but accessorily, it also organizes trade fairs and exhibitions
abroad. These latter functions will be taken over by CEPEX which has focused
its activities on promoting exports and on assisting exporters by conducting
market surveys, providing advice and disseminating commercial information, as
well as participating in trade fairs. The merger will considerably strengthen
CEPEX promotional efforts. So as to further reduce costs of export promotion
and streamline public efforts in this important field, Government is also
studying the possibi'ity of more closely integrating the commercial attaches
stationed abroad into the enlarged CEPEX.
92.     The adjustment program will undoubtedly increase the need for
technical assistance at the production level, particularly to SSIs where
limited resources may not allow them to identify and adopt measures to improve
productivity entirely on their own.  To this end, the activities of the
existing technical centers which provide valued services to entrepreneurs,
must be increasingly geared toward the needs of SSIs. Moreover, in line with
the financial constraints faced by the Government, these centers must be made
increasingly financially independent from the Government budget. Some of
them, such as the Center for Electrical and Mechanical Industries (CETIME),
already have less than half of their operating costs financed by the
Government and have indicated the willingness to decrease this proportion
further through imposing user and/or membership fees. This increasing
financial independence has to be accompanied by an increased participation of
the private sector in the management of these centers. At the moment, their
boards normally include only one metber from UTICA but three from the
Government, usually from the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, Planning and
Finance and Social Affairs.
93.     The three existing technical centers are operating in separate fields
and there is little experience or knowledge to be shared among them; hence,
there would be little advantage in consolidating them into one organization.
However, as other sectors develop, the need for assistance in other fields
would undoubtedly rise. The MITAP calls for the Government to consult with
the enterprises concerned and with the existing centers so that the necessary
additional activities can be taken up by one of the existing centers, rather
than creating a new one. The Government has also decided to work towards
improved coordination among the centers and between them and other
institutions in training and in establishing a data base. In this connection,
efforts by UTICA to assist SSIs will also be strengthened.
94.     The improved efficiency of public institutions has to be matched by
more active private sector representation. Until now, the Chambers of
Commerce have played a marginal role in Tunisia. Under M!lTAP, they will be
reactivated and will take over greater responsibility in representing the
private sector point of view, i.e. identifying the needs of industry, and
acting as an intermediary between the Government and the private sector.
Considering the need for extensive consultations and cooperation with the
priv&te sector, as well as with the regional authorities on the most efficient
way to reactivate these institutions, delineate their attributions, decide on
their staffing and agree ou their financing, elaboration of a concrete
proposal will take time. Government has agreed to discuss such a proposal
with the Bank before the end of 1987.



- 32 _
3. Export Promotion
95.      In line with the focus of the adjustment program on increasing trade
and manufactured exports, the Government has made recently vigorous efforts to
eliminate administrative obstacles facing traders and exporters (para. 24),
many of which were identified in the Bank's Industrial Policy Report. The
Government quickly moved to implement most of the Report's recommendations.
Prominent smong the measures promoted was the establishement of export trading
companies (para. 24). In consequence, the program is well advanced;
nevertheless, a number of additional improvements were agreed upon as part of
MITAP.
96.      Firstly, agricultural exports are, since the beginning of 1986,
exonerated from taxes, and so are export-related profits. Also, the tax on
fish exports has been reduced from 6 to 3 percent, and for other exports to
1.5 percent. Secondly, export licenses have been abolished, except for
subsidized goods. Thirdly, the customs and indirect taxation regimes,
including temporary admission and warehousing, have been reformed to benefit
exporters, notably by the following measures:
(1)    Reducing the number of customs forms required for exports from
several into one, and in general, simplifying and computerizing
procedures.
(ii)    Ratifying the treaty on international road transport (TIR) customs
procedures which integrates Tunisian road transport into the EEC
transport system.
(iii)   Reducing the bank guarantee to be provided for goods imported to be
used in exports from 100 percent to 5 percent, and abolishing the
guarantee in cases of permanent or intermittent customs supervision
of operations.
(iv)    Occasional exporters have been allowed to supply themselves from
resident companies without payment of the domestic sales tax, instead
of having to await reimbursement of this tax after exports.
(v)    The import licensing document, titre de commerce ext6rieur, has been
abolished for imports under the temporary admission regime, including
imports of packaging materials for exports; this effectively cuts
down on red tape.
Finally, a number of other measures have been implemented through an amendment
to the Customs Code; chief among them is the improvement of the reimbursement
of taxes on imported goods used for exports. The measures remaining to be
taken relate mainly to the objective of further facilitating trading
operations.
97.      In an effort to further improve the import/export trade system, the
Government intends, during 1987, to (i) complete the computerizatiou of
customs services, for the about 15 percent of services not yet covered; (ii)
strengthen the computerized handling of operations; (iii) decentralize customs



- 33 -
offlces; and (iv) in concert with other export-related Government services,
unify working hours, regroup services in a single location, integrate computer
treatment and in general, try to place a single Government respondent
vis-4-vis the exporter. The Government has informed the Bank in detail about
this program.
4. Money and Credit
98.      Liberalization of banking activities.   As mentioned above (para.
20), the main features of monetary policy adjustments were agreed upon with
the IRF in the Fall of 1986. The Tunisian authorities have now decided on a
number of measures with regard to the volume of domestic credit, which the
Central Bank will regulate through daily intervention on the money market, now
the principal source of refinancing for the banks. This orientation toward
global regulation techniques means, for the banks, a larger margin of autonomy
together with increased accountability. In particular, they are regaining
control, with some reservations, over interest rates both for lending and
borrowing. This represents a major and quite sudden evolution since up to now
ouly long-term rates were free, while all other bank lending terms (including
margins and commissions) were set by the Central Bank.
99.     The move toward liberalizing banking activities is further
strengthened -as part of MITAP-- by the decision to mitigate two constraints
that have considerably limited the autonomy of the deposit banks: (i) the
requirement to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank for any loan
in excess of a certain minimum, and (ii) the arbitrary earmarking of a large
portion of their deposits to medium- and long-term lending. The annual
submission to the Central Bank of a complete dossier on any enterprise
applying for credit above a certain amount was a requirement imposed by the
Central Bank to influence the volume and, above all, the quality and
selectivity of credit, through examination, inter alia, of the terms of the
loan, the nature of the operations to be financed, the financial structure of
the borrower, etc. The thresholds of applicability differed according to the
nature and duration of the loans, which made the system very complicated. For
short-term lending, by far the most important type of lending, three different
categories were distinguished: (i) credits with no need for prior
authorization (export financing); (ii) credits with a high ceiling below which
no prior authorization was required (essentially commercial bills and lending
For agriculture, mining and manufacturing); and (iii) credits with a low
ceiling below which no prior authorization was required (essentially the
financing of trading transactions). For medium-term lending, similar
distinctions were made: (a) authorization-exempt credit (approved new
investments); (b) pre-authorized credit above a certain ceiling (agricultural
investments); and (c) the "other" types of pre-authorized credit, regardless
of the size of the loan.
100.    This procedure effectively resulted in the Central Bank substituting
its judgement for that of the commercial banks in the role of risk appraisal.
To reduce the Central Bank's role in this respect and to increase the
accountability of the commercial banks, the Central Bank increased in February
1985 the short-term credit ceiling, from TD 600,000 to TD 1.000,000 (the lower
limit remaining unchanged at TD 100,000). A much larger inerease took place



- 34 -
on January 2, 1987, within the framsework of this Loan'. adjustment program:
for short-term commercial bank lending the ceiling above which prior approval
by the Central Bank remains required wan raised uniformly to TD 5 million.
Thus the system bas been miade considerably more simple and less burdensome:
the TD 5 mdllion ceiling now affects only about 50 enterprises, mostly from
the public sector, whose situation still requires monitoring. The few private
enterprises still affected by this requirement will no longer be subject to it
after January 1, 1988. Medium-term lending has become completely exempt from
a priori authorization from the BCT except for the negligible amount of loans
destined for other than investment purposes. The small amount of long-term
lending is also exempt for private borrowers, while the a priori authorimation
is maintained for public enterprises regardless of the size of the loan.
101.     Starting in 1963, the commercial banks also had to earmark a large
proportion of their deposits (except for foreign accounts) to medium and
long-term lending operations, which accordingly restricted their latitude to
make decisions. This proportion eventually totalled 431: 201 in development
bonds issued by the State, 51 in bonds of the Caiss Natiuonale
d'Eirgne-kogement (CNEL), 181 in medium-term loans (of which 21 was reserved
for small enterprises, crafts and small trades). The objectives of this
schee were to get the banks to participate more actively in investment
financing.
102.    The imposition of a minimum medium- and long-term lending ratio, may
have been justified at a time when the institutions catering to such lending
were not sufficiently developed. Now, however, with the creation of several
development banks in 198182, it is less essential to maintain such a high and
undifferentiated lending ratio. Accordingly, it was replaced on September
30, 1986 by a lower and more specific ratio, known as the "priority activities
ratio," which applies only to the financing of investments in the
crafts/artisan sector, the SSIs, agriculture and export activities.
Initially, the new ratio is fixed at 71 for the deposits of each bank (except
for certain categories of accounts): it will rise by one point per semester
to reach its final level of lOS by March 31, 1988. This new measure will
enable the banks to freely decide on how to allocate an additional amount of
approximately TD 160 million in deposits.
103.    ExchanRe risk guarantee.  Linked to the system of credit distribution
is the problem of the exchange risk.  Under the Seventh Plan, Tunisia's
development banks are assigned a major role in investment financing, which
they cannot perform unless they borrow abroad. With the present monetary and
exchange rate instability, this policy is very risky, at least for the short
tern and as it affects each establishment. In the past, when the banks did
not borrow much, the Government generally assumed the risk, regarding this as
a normal counterpart to exchange control, taking account of unforeseeable rate
fluctuations and the lack of possibilities of risk coverage. Thus, it has
systematically granted its guarantee to borrowings by BDET, whose SSI
customers have little means of protecting themselves. BNDT has also obtained
Government guarantees for its few external borrowings except for one. Up to
1981, loans guaranteed in this way were yielding gains to the Government, as
the value of the Dinar appreciated in relation to the foreign exchange
borrowed. In 1981, bowever, the situation was reversed as a result of the



- 35 -
strong upswing of the U.S. dollar, and has continued in this vein with the
recent depreciation of the Dinar.
104.     In 1985, the Government took a number of measures to handle -he
worsening situation. To offset the heavy losses recorded since 19812. it has
provided the Exchange Equalization Fund (FPC) --until that time financod
solely out of the gains resulting from exchange rate adjustments-- with o
constant source of income resulting from charges on final borrowers: a 0.5%
comuission on overdrafts, a 1% commission on development bank loans and o,thtr
charges included in the Central Bank's re-discount rates. These now
resources, however, will only enable the FPC to repay by the ond. of Lfl8 che
TD 43.3 million in losses sustained on BDET and BNDT borrowings, up t4 tte, end-
of 1985.  These measures, therefore, remained short-term solutions dicttted by
the circumstances of the moment, and do not present the basis for a long-term'
strategy to handle the foreign exchange risk on external borroings. La the
long run, the authorities agree that the exchange risk needs to be borne by
the final borrowers, if because of their size or the nature of their business,
they have sufficient means of protecting themselves. Hence, the present
policy to grant the banks an undifferentiated guarantee benefiting all
customers is not justified. Furthermoret it incites the banks to borrow as
much as possible in stronig currencies, thereby profiting from lower interest
rates to increase their profit margins, but at the expense of increasing the
foreign exchange risk for the FPC.
105.     Within the framework of MITAP, the reformed system, once a detailed
study has been completed, will be improved along the following lines:
(a) The benefits of the existing FPC system will be reserved for Small
and Medium Enterprises (SME) who do not have the means to protect
themselves effectively; the appropriate definition of an SME will be
agreed with the Government once the detailed results of the study
have become available. Larger enterprises should be sufficiently
well protected by their size (which can allow for diversification of
risks) or by the nature of their activities (exports in particular)
to carry the risk by themselves.
(b) The borrowing banks will pay the FPC a fee equal to the difference
between their cost of borrowing abroad and a reference rate linked to
the cost of domestic loans of equal duration: thus they will no
longer be tempted to choose systematically the stronger currencies.
Moreover, the income of the FPC will thus be linked to the volume and
risk of the operations.
(c)  Further corrective measures will be taken should a defki*t in the FPC
appear likely, so as to make sure that no budgetary funds need to be
used to support the system. To this avail, the Central Bank will
review the situation and outlook of the FPC every six months and
decide on necessary changes in the level of premiums to keep the Furnd
solvent.
106.     For its part, the Central Bank, which in January 1986 had already
extended up to eight months the duration of its forward coverage for
coacrcial operations will undertake a second study focusing on the
possibility of:



- 36 -
(1)  authorizing term coverage of debt service (principal and/or interest)
in addition to trade transactions; and
(ii) improving the term coverage of exchange risks affecting foreign
borrowing operations.
5. Taxation
107.     The Tunisian authorities are vell aware of the importance of creating
an environment conducive for private enterprise, to stimulate production and
job creation: in the past, they used a substantial array of tax incentives to
encourage investments, which served for a long time as a model in other
countries. Also, since 1982, Government had been working on a general reform
of direct and indirect taxation, with three basic objectives:
(i)       for direct taxes: standardization of individual and corporate
taxes and some rate reductions, with the revenue decline being
offset by more efficient tax administration;
(ii)      for indirect taxes: institution of a single, general value-added
tax, to expand the tax base and reduce dependence on imports;
and
(iii)     overall: streamline and simplify the system that has become very
complicated over the years.
108.    The IMF has expressed full agreement with these objectives after
review by two special missions in May 1982 and July 1985.  The review
concluded that there is nothing in the existing regulations to hinder business
efficiency or that should be immediately eliminated, and that perhaps, on the
contrary, there were too many costly incentives. However, the tax system is
excessively complicated and the rates are rather high, although they could be
reduced if evasion were less prevalent.
109.    As regards form, current legislation consists of a series of laws
that have been promulgated over the years but never codified comprehensively.
The principal texts were promulgated in 1912 (registration duties), 1932
(individual government tax-e        t personnelle d'Etat), 1945 (taxes on
wages and salaries) and 1954 (tax on profits). However, they have often been
amended, and mny additions have further complicated the system, particularly
since the temptation to establish a new general-purpose tax for every new
category of expenditure has often been too strong to resist. The system thus
requires a general overhaul., with the abolition of many of the minor taxes,
and subsequent codification.
110.    As regards sWustance, the tax ratio has always been high in Tunisia,
but not abnormally so; .t-totaled 26.5% of GNP in 1984 (including social
security contributions, biut excluding oil revenue), i.e. slightly higher than
in Nbrocco and slightly.lower than in Egypt, to take the example of two
neighboring countries. 'wAs is usual in developing countries, indirect taxes
(particularly those levied on international trade) account for about two
thirds of fiscal revenue. Nevertheless, direct tax rates are kept high as a
I,,
'I



- 37 -
mans of compensating for the many exemptions and widespread erasion.1" In
addition, the tax structure is outdated and complicated:
-    Individuals pay a combination of schedule taxes (at rates depending
on the source of income) and a progressive personal income tax
calculated on the remaining income. A flat rate tax is applied to
owners of small businesses and craftsmen.
-    Companies pay a graduated tax on their profits and di-idends.  The
profits tax is proportional, the rate depending on the type of
activity in question, to which is added a flat rate consisting of 1X
of turnover. Different turnover tax systems are applied to
manufacturing, consumption and services.
111.     Since 1982, various cbanges have been made to simplify the system and
lighten the tax burden on individuals and companies, and also to establish a
uniform turnover tax. Two were particularly important:
-    the 19B3 Finance Law reduced the flat rate corporate profit tax from
46.51 to 441 for commercial activities and from 40.51 to 381 for
maufacturing, tourism and transportation; moreover, the securities
tax could be deducted from the tax payable by the holders of the
securities concerned;
-    the 1986 Finance Law reduced the individual profit tax from
manufacturing and conmuercial activities from 25% to 20%, and the
maximum rate of the personal income tax from 801 to 68% (with a
ceiling at 60% of overall income).
In addition:
-    The production tax waus extended to cover the construction industry,
public works and trausportation (in 1984), together with tourism (in
1985) and the tax on services was increased in 1986 to bring it into
line with the production tax.
112.     Two more far-reaching reform measures that form part of the agreement
with the IMF, will be iruplemented as part of the overall adjustment program:
-    In August 1986, the Government announced that it intends to introduce
a general value added tax on January 1, 1988. A bill, now under
discussion, will be submitted to the National Assembly in the first
quarter of 1987.
-    The government-also intends to simplify and consolidate the system of
personal income and corporate profits taxes during the Seventh Plan
and perhaps further reduce tax rates.
In its July 1985 report, the IMF estimates losses from tax evasion and
avoidance at about 50% of potential direct tax revenue.



- 38 -
Ioplementation of these two reforms, which are designed to be revenue neutral,
will be discussed with the IMF before the end of September 1987, during the
second review of the program.
6. kEdustuial Emloymnent
113.    The creation of productive employment has been a high priority of
Tunisia's development strategy over the last decade because, in addition to
relatively high unemployment (about 141 of labor force) and underemployment,
the labor force was growing at a rapid 3.3 2 annually. Government sought to
resolve the employment problem by maintaining a high rate of economic growth
and an exceptionally high investment rate. Labor emigration to Europe and to
the Middle East also helped relieve some of the pressure. However, the drop
in world oil prices, the decline in Tunisian oil production, and the overall
slow-down in ecomomic growth created by it, have necessitated a cut in the
investment rate, and this combined with the recession in Europe and the oil
producing Middle East countries has led to a further aggravation of the
unemployment problem.
114.     In 1983, the Tunisian Government and the Bank undertook a joint study
of industrial employment, that identified an action program in six policy
areas whose objectives are to reduce unemployment and underemployment as well
as increasing the number of newly created jobs by reducing the cost of
employment creation. Two of these areas, namely (i) the re-orientation of the
overall development strategy by reforming the system of factor renumeration,
and (ii) the reallocation of public investments, are being addressed under the
macro-economic program underlying this Loan adn the recently approved ASAL.
The third area -the reform of the system of industrial promotion and the
Incentives framework in Tunisia-  is the centerpiece of this operation.  The
fourth policy area deals with the institutional set-up as it relates to (i)
technological acquisition, adaptation and dissemination, (ii) the roles of
employers' and workers' organizations, and (iii) improved coordination between
the Government institutions. These, again, are dealt with in this Loan;
however, since the study's recommendations cover a long period, only the
initial and immediate measures have been incorporated within the policy
package supported by this operation. The fifth policy area dealt with issues
of education and training reform which should more appropriately be dealt with
within the framework of education/training operations. Finally, the sixth
area concerns specific wage and employment issues.
115.    In addition to the above study, the preparatory work for two lines of
credit (Loan 2522-TUN for exports and Loan 2554-TUN for electro-mechanical
industries) as well as for a second SSI project and for the industrial sector
report, included visits and field surveys of many manufacturing firms, which
covered among others, issues related to industrial employment and wages.
Together with the joint Bank/Government industrial employment study, these
field visits have formed the basis for some of the specific agreements on
employment and wage policies reached with the Tunisian Government that are
incorporated in the sectoral policy package and are discussed in the following
paragraphs .



- 39 -
116.    The proposed Loan supports an adjustment program which incorporates a
reformed incentives framework favoring labor-intensive policies and a modified
wage policy that (a) aims to contain any further increases in wages over the
short tern, (b) bases industrial wage adjustments, in the long tern, on
changes in productivity at the level of the industrial enterprise, and
(c) aias to prevent any further increase in the high social security
contribution by employers in the short term and to achieve a gradual decline
in the longer term. Thus, the MITAP, in addition to the measures affecting
employment and wages that are a part of the macro-economic framework on which
this Loan is based, would support the following:
(i)     In an effort to prevent any further increases in social security
charges that help finance six separate programs, some of which are
experiencing deficits while others are in surplus, the Government
will study the feasibility of reallocating the total among the
various programs so as to maintain the longer term equilibrium and
vill also review the structure of the various benefits being provided
to determine if a balance between resources and expenditures is
possible; if not, the Government has agreed to realign benefits with
expected revenues instead of increasing the burden of social security
charges on employers.
(ii)    Helping enterprises to implement the policy of basing wage
adjustments on changes in productivity and to take into account the
finncial condition of an enterprise is a priority task that the
Government would like to see followed on a wider scale. The
practical application of such a policy requires the assistance of
experts to train Tunisians, both staff of the Ministry of Social
Affairs and of selected enterprises, in this area. The Government
has requested the Bank's assistance in finAncing the cost of such
consultants for an initial phase, which is expected to cost about
US$200,000.
(iii)   As part of the efforts to prepare the Seventh Plan, the Government is
undertaking a review of labor and employment legislation to ensure
that it is sufficiently flexible to promote employment, incites
entrepreneurs to hire more staff, and at the same time is not an
obstacle to enterprise rehabilitation and restructuring efforts. The
results of such a review would be discussed with the Bank and a
timetable for action agreed upon.
7. Toureism Polcy Study
117.    With a share of about 18Z of total foreign exchange receipts. tourism
ranks with energy and phosphate products as one of Tunisia's major sources of
foreign exchange earnings. With energy output declining and phosphate prices
depressed for the foreseeable future, the optimization of this source is
critical to the sustenance of Tunisia's development. Moreover, the sector is
a major source of new employment, not only in the coastal area but wherever
tourism can be maintained, thus contributing to the couatry's employment and
regional development efforts. In recent years, however, ita growth has been
slow and erratic. Furthermore, domestic value added has remained rather low.



- 40 -
118.    The main causes of slow growth and low domestic value added are
four: firstly, the sector appears to suffer from too-fast an expansion of
hotel capacity and this tendency seems to be continuing. The 301 increase in
hotel capacity presently under construction exceeds the foreseeable demand
increase of 13-141 between 1987 and 1991. This will further reduce an already
low average occupancy rate. Secondly, the low occupancy rate will further
weaken the position of the Tunisian hotel industry in its negotiations with
tour operattirs and will enable the latter to negotiate even less favorable
prices for tunisian hotel owners, thus further reducing the domestic value
added from tourism. Thirdly, continued reduction in profit margins which are
already depressed will force hotel managers, even more than in the past, to
neglect the maintenance and renewal of their facilities and in general, reduce
further the quality of their services. This leads, fourthly, to a further
deterioration of the quality of services and becomes a cause for
larger-income, high-spending tourists to turn away from Tunisia.
119. In light of the above, it appears necessary for Tunisia's tourist
industry to embark on a program of consolidation. Among other things, this
would seem to imply that the incentives system should provide more
encouragement to renewal, proper maintenance, and proper management of
existing investments, rather than to the construction of new hotels. Moreover:
(a) Tunisia would seem to have the potential to branch out and diversify
into the higher quality segment of the market. So far, Tunisian
tourism consists overwhelmingly of low cost, beach-based,
charter-flight/package-tour arrangements which generate a rather
limited value added to the country. Individual tourism is much more
profitable and should be developed taking advantage of Tunisia's easy
accessibility from Europe;
(b) tourists should be encouraged to spend more during their stay in
Tunisia on purchases of all kinds; excursions, sports activities and
other entertainment. So far, these auxiliary activities are little
developed and tourists seem to spend little money over and above the
actual costs of the package tour;
(c) attempts should be made to increase the low number of repeater
tourists in Tunisia. This will require, most likely, an improvement
in the quality of services and in the auxiliary activities.
120.    Not enough is known, presently, about the sector to formulate such
policies; this will require an in-depth assessment of the sector's problems
and of the various obstacles preventing a more rapid and controllable growth.
To this avail, the Tunisian authorities plan shortly to undertake a
comprehensive study (see para. 133). Given the high importance of this
endeavour, the Bank was willing to consider a possible participation in the
financing of this study in the context of this loan; the Government, however,
was confident that it had the necessary means to undertake the work without
outside assistance. The study would focus particulariy on:
(a) an analysis of the current incentive structure as it affects tourism,
with a view to determine whether it is biased in favor of new
capital-investments and against labor-intensive services and
maintenance; this analysis should include an analysis of fiscal
incentives and disincentives, the role of Government subsidies, and
pricing and import regulations affecting the sector;



- 41 -
(b) an analysis of the current institutional Bu.Pport structure both at
home and abroad, including marketing, linkage with infrastructure,
the labor market, as well as the existing specialized schools and
training institutions; and
(c) an analysis of prices to Tunisia and its competitors  from major
European destinations for all-inclusive package tours and individual
tourism, versus its major mediterranean competition.
121.     The above analysis should result in a set of specific policy
recommendations to Tunisian decision makers on how to:
Ci)   coordinate construction of new hotels with foreseeable demand;
(ii) stimulate development of auxiliary services such as sports
facilities; cultural facilities (i.e. antique monuments,
museums, folklore); recreational and shopping facilities
(handicraft shops, tax-free shops);
(iii) stimulate better hotel maintenance and renovation;
(iv) improve the quality of hotel and other services; and
Cv)   promote individual tourism.
Achieving these objectives will likely require changes in the incentives
structure, supported by improvements in public services and some public
investments, and changes in public laws such as the tax and labor code and
import regulations.
PART V - THE IOAN
A. Origin and Objectives
122.    During the 1984 Annual Meetings, the Tunisian Government requested
the Bank to consider the financiag of a number of sector adjustment
operations, beginning with two loans, one in industry and the other in
agriculture, to help support continued reforms of the economy. In response,
the Bank mounted in January 1985,, a missidn to review the industrial sector.
The report of this mission was discussed with the Government in September
1985. along with a Synopsis Paper that presented the gist of the Bank's
proposals for policy changes within a consistent macro-economic framework.
Government, as a result of these discussions, decided to pursue with the Bank
a broad-based policy dialogue with the objective of establishing an adjustment
program that would cover the period of the Seventh Plan (1987-1991) and that
would be financed in phases starting with an agricultural sector adjustment
loan, followed by this industrial and trade policy adjustment loan. This
program was designed jointly by a Bank team and the staff of the Ministries of
Planing and Finance, of Comnerce and Industry, and the Central Bank.
l
123.     The purpose o0  this Loan is to provide the necessary financial and
technical support to the Government's program for macro-economic reform,
described in Part II, and to the adjustment program in the industrial and



- 42 -
trade sector described in Part IV. The Covernment's macro-economic and
seCtoral adjustment programs have been transmitted to the Bank in two letters
signed by the Minister of Finance and Planning, one covering economic
development (Annex IV) and the other the industrial development policy (Annex
V). The sectoral reform program, including a detailed action program that
covers the period from mid-1986 to 1988, was appraised by a Bank mission in
October 1986 and negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from December 19,
1986 to December 24, 19S6; the Tunisian delegation was led by Mr. Tahar
Ennaifer, Director General of Projects in the Ministry of Planning and
Finance. A Loan Suumagry is given at the beginning of this report, and a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet appears as Annex III.
B. Acion Proarm Under the Loan
124.    The macro-economic and sectoral adjustment programm  cover the entire
five-year period of the Seventh Plan (1987-1991), but the action program to be
supported by the proposed loan focuses particularly on the first two years of
this period. While the broad outlines of the five-year program have been
discussed and agreed between the Government and the Bank, it is the
shorter-term two-year slice of this program that has been developed and agreed
upon in detail. Thus, a number of policy reform measures have been selected
for monitoring from among all the measures agreed upon, to gauge the progress
of action on policy reform. Monitoring of actions to be taken will be almost
continuous but a special review would determine whether progress of
implementation of the macro- and sectoral- reform programs during the period
covered by the first tranche is satisfactory and on that basis, whether the
second tranche of the loan should be released (paras. 139-140). Sectoral
reform actions in the various policy areas selected as conditions of
effectiveness or release of the second tranche of the Loan are discussed
below; they include actions on the new investment code, on the new system of
covering the exchange risk on foreign borrowings by development banks, as well
as submission to Parliament of the draft law on the VAT.
ahe nMcetves EFramework
125.    Assurances were provided during negotiations that the Government will
have submitted the new Investment Code to its National Assembly by the time of
effectiveness of the Loan and will have adopted the new Code prior to the
release of the second tranche of the Loan (para. 140). The new Code will
abolish general investment licensing. It will give special incentives almost
exclusively for high priority investments, primarily those exporting part of
their output or creating jobs in the most underdeveloped areas of the
country. They will be granted automatically provided specified criteria are
met and will make no distinctions by project size or project type.
Additionally, certain incentives will be available to all investments without
specific approval as "common law" rights, including those outside
manufacturing; they will focus on encouraging exports and enterprise
creation. The main incentives to encourage exports, mostly available as
"common law" rights, will be tax and duty free import of products to be
processed into exports, tax free local purchases of similar products, and
partial income tax exemptions for funds invested in, profits generated by, and
dividends gained from export operations. The new incentives to encourage the



- 43 -
creation of jobs in underdeveloped areas will consist primarily of the
government bearing the cost of infrastructure on AFI industrial estates; in
addition, they foresee temporary cuts in social security charges on employers
and partial income tax exemption for fund: invested in, and dividends from
such operations. There will also be minor incentives to facilitate the
introduction of new technologies and Tunisian manufacture of capital goods.
Experience with the new code, as well as the need and justification of
maintaining it, would be reviewed towards the end of the Seventh Plan.
126.    For an interim period between the time investment licensing is
abolished and imports of capital goods are liberalized on January 2, 1988, a
temporary procedure, acceptable to the Bank has been established authorizing
Imports of such goods for priority projects that do not qualify for special
incentives.
127.    During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
actions: (a) issuance of a decree separating the Approvals Committee
responsible for implementing the new Investment Code from API's Board of
Directors. This is a condition of second tranche release of this Loan (para.
l60); (b) merging of CNEI's and AFI's activities and personnel with those of
API by January 2, 1988; (c) restructuring API to focus on promotional
activities by January 2, 1988; (d) merging of OCT's promotional work with
CEPEC bY end 1987; (e) a detailed, concrete proposal to reduce financial
dependence of technical centers on the budget to 502 by the end of the VIIth
Plan (1991); finally, (f) submission of a concrete p,oposal to expand the role
of Chambers of Commerce and of UTICA before the end of 1987.
Mony and Credit
128.    Banking:  As regards liberalization of ban.          .vities, the
Government has deregulated as of January 2, 1987, all lenuing and borrowing
rates, with the following exceptions:
-    lending rates on loans to priority activities (i.e. exports,
agriculture, small- and medium-sized enterprises, energy saving),
which will continue to be set by the Central Bank,
-    borrowing rates on special savings accounts and the convertible Dinar
deposits of Tunisian nationals resident abroad; these will be
determined by reference to money market rates.
Banks are now free to determine all other conditions, including spreads and
fees. The monetary authorities will intervene solely in order to guarantee
positive real rates for term deposits and to set a ceiling for lending rates
well above the inflation rate so as to prevent usury.
129.     The Government also raised the minimum amount for loans by deposit
banks that require prior authorization from the Central Bank (BCT) to TD 5
million, starting January 2, 1987. This new limit applies to all short-tern
loans. Medium-term lending has become almost totally exempt from a priori
autborization from the BCT and so has the very smalt amount of long-term
lending, except for loans to public enterprises.



- 44 -
130.     Exchange-Risk Guarantees:  In the past, the Government has generally
provided BDET and, to some extent, BNDT with exchange-risk guarantees on their
external borrowings. With the likely increase in borrowings by development
banks, Government could face considerable financial risks if these guarantees
were not limited to small borrowers unable to cover the risks themselves, and
if the banks were to continue to borrow in low interest-rate currencies that
are highly likely to appreciate. In consequence, the Government has agreed to
introduce, after a study has determined the most appropriate ways of doing so,
the following changes to the system (para. 140):
(a)  Exchange-risk guarantees granted to a banking establishment borrowing
abroad should cover only loans to SMEs (see para. 105);
(b) Financing arrangements for the Exchange Equalization Fund (FPC) will
be changed to ensure that the FPC would remain financially
self-sufficient without any need for government subsidies. In
particular, whenever there is a drawing on a new foreign loan, the
borrowing banks would pay the FPC a commission equal to the
difference between the cost of the loan and a reference rate which is
the long-term domestic lending rate, minus an allowance for
administrative costs.
(c) To further avoid the need for government subsidies, additional
measures designed to increase the revenues of the FPC will be adopted
any time that there is a foreseeable risk of a lasting deficit in the
Fund.
Prior to effectiveness of the proposed Loan, the Government will agree with
the Bank on the terms of reference of the above-mentioned study; discussion of
the findings of this study and the implementation of a mutually agreed upon
system will be a condition of second tranche release (para. 140). Also prior
to the effectiveness of the proposed Loan, the Government will agree with the
Bank on the terms of reference of a second study to be undertaken by the
Central Bank on forward coverage of exchange risks in the context of the
foreign borrowing policy (para. 140); the results of this study will be
discussed and a mutually agreed upon system will be implemented by January 1,
1988.
Taxatien
131.     There is nothing in the existing tax regulations to seriously hinder
business efficiency that should be immediately eliminated. However, the tax
system is excessively complicated in all categories, and rates are relatively
high; they could be reduced if the regulations were more strictly applied.
The Government has decided:
(a) as a first step, to introduce a general VAT system on January 1,
1988. The submission of a draft law to the National Assembly would -
be a condition of second tranche release under this Loan (para. 140).
(b) to standardize direct taxes on individuals and corporations, with
some reduction in rates before the end of the Seventh Plan.



- 45 -
Government will discuss implementation of these two fiscal reforms, which are
planned to be income neutral, during the second review of the program with
the IMF before the end of September 1987.
kldsrial Emuomen and Was
132.    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
will undertake the following actions as conditions of second tranche release
under this Loan:
(1)    Social Security contributions by employers will be prevented from
increasing further in the short term and will be reduced gradually in
the longer term without undermining the financial integrity of the
existing social security system. To this avail, Government will.
study the feasibility of reallocating employers' contributions among
the six programs covered by the social security system and will
identify the actions needed to realign future benefits with the
foreseeable resources of these programs. An exchange of views on the
measures to be taken and on a timetable for implementation will be a
condition of second tranche release (para. 140);
(ii)    The policy of selective wage adjustment based upon changes in
productivity and upon the financial condition of each enterprise will
be pursued with the help of technical experts to be financed under
the project. The focus of such assistance is to help in the
practical application of this policy and to train Tunisian staff in
such tasks (para. 116 (ii)). Employment of consultants to undertake
this task will be a condition of second tranche release; and
(iii)   The Government will review the existing labor and employment
legislation so as to make sure that it is sufficiently adaptable and
flexible to promote employment and does not constitute an obstacle to
efforts to restructure industrial enterprises. The proposed changes
resulting from this review will be discussed with the Bank before the
second tranche release to determine the scope of key changes and a
timetable for implementation will be agreed upon.
Tourism
133.    During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government will
undertake a comprehensive study on future policies necessary to increase
domestic resources from tourism. Agreement between the Bank and the
Government on the terms of reference of this study will be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 140), and the study's conclusions and recommendations
would be discussed with the Bank before end 1987.
C. Loan Adinistration
134.     Eligible Expenditures.  The proposed Loan of US$150 million would
finance (a) the foreign exchange cost of imported goods up to about US$149.8
million, using a negative list.  The items not to be financed include goods
financed by other sources and a specific list of excluded items, such as



- 46 -
military or para-military items and luxury goods such as tobacco, precious
stOnes, jewelry, gold and nuclear reactors and parts; and (b) the foreign
exchange cost of the technical assistance program that would help Government
to implement its new salary policies in manufacturing enterprises, up to about
US$200,000.
135.    Procurement. Procurement of imports by the private sector (including
public manufacturing enterprises) would be made following regular commercial
practices using not less than three quotations from suppliers or manufacturers
whenever possible, except when any one contract is US$5.0 million or more, in
which case international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with World
bank Guidelines would be used. Procurement of imports by the public sector
would be done by ICB, except in the case of contracts costing less than
US$2.0 million each, up to an aggregate of US$15.0 million, which would, be
awarded on the basis of standard procedures for public sector procurement
which are acceptable to the Bank. Procurement would be grouped whenever
possible into packages suitable for ICB. Items which the Bank considers of a
proprietary nature, expected to total no more than US$5 million, would be
procured by negotiated contract, following procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Consultants helping to implement the Government's new salary policies
(para. 116) would be employed in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Bidding
documents, bid evaluation reports and proposed awards of contracts procured
through ICE would be subject to the prior approval of the Bank. For other
procurement, the Borrower would furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission
of the related withdrawal application, such documentation and information as
the Rank may reasonably request to support the withdrawal of funds from the
Loan account in respect of such contracts.
136.    Disbursement.  The Central Bank would have primary responsibility for
administering the proposed loan. Disbursements from the Loan account for
imports would be made against 100% of the foreign cost of eligible imports.
Disbursements for consultants' services would be made against 100l of foreign
expenditures or 70% of local expenditures. Disbursements for contracts
procured through ICB and for consultants' services would be made against fully
documented withdrawal applications. Disbursements for other items would be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOE) from the Central Bank
detailing individual transactions in a given period, together with a
certification of payment of the amounts involved, and of their eligibility
under the Loan. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the
Central Rank, until at least 12 months after the closing of the Loan account,
and made available for review to Bank supervision missions. Applications for
withdrawal would be consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$1.0
million. In order to accelerate disbursements, a revolving fund (special
account) with an initial deposit of US$35.0 million (corresponding to four
months' payments expected to be made through the revolving fund) would be
established at the Central Bank. Replenishments would be made either once a
month or when half of the revolving fund has been utilized. The Loan is
expected to be fully disbursed within 18 months of effectiveness. The Closing
Date would be December 31, 1988.
137.    Account and Audits.  The Central Bank would maintain records of all
transactions under the Loan in accordance with sound accounting practices.
Not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower,



- 47 -
all accounts. including the special account (revolving fund), would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports would include a
separate opinion with regard to the claim submitted to the Bank on the basis
of SODs and would state whether such claim  bar been effected in accordance
with the Loan Agreement.
138.    Release of Funds and Tranching. The proceeds of the Loan would be
made available for withdrawal in two tranches, the first of US$100.0 million
upon Loan effectiveness, the second of US$SO.O million when the conditions for
its release have been met. Disbursement would be made on a 'tfirst-coue
first-served" basis. The conditions for the release of each traeche would
relate to the implementation of specific measures which are crucial to the
execution of the overall mero-economic and sectoral adjustment programs.
Besides these measures, the Government has already demonstrated its commitment
to the objectives of the macro-economic and sector programs by taking key
actions in recent months; for example, currency adjustment, a first round of
import and price liberalization, budget cuts, and trade and export pro otion
measures.
139.    The macro-economic reform actions which would be supported and
monitored under the loan are:
(a)  as a condition of effectiveness:  an approved 1987 budget reflecting
the objectives referred to in Annex I to the Macro-Economic
Adjustment Program, attached to the Letter of Economic Development
Policy of September 1, 1986 (para. 29);
(b) as a condition of second tranche release:  Bank confirmation of
satisfactory progress in implementation of the overall macro-economic
program (para. 37).
140.    The sector specific actions to be supported and monitored under the
loan are:
(a) as a condition of effectiveness:
(i) submission of a new Investment Code to the National Assembly
reflecting the objectives referred to in the Medium-Term
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Program, attached to the
Letter on Industrial Development Policy of January 27, 1987
(para. 125);
(ii) agreement with the Bank on the terms of reference of the
studies to prepare the concrete features of the improved
exchange risk guarantee scheme and on the forward coverage of
exchange risks in the context of the foreign borrowing policy
(para. 130);
(iii) agreement with the Bank on the terms of reference of the
tourism policy study (para. 133);



- 48 -
(b) as a condition of second tranche release:
(1)   adoption of a new Investment Code acceptable to the Bank (pare.
125);
(ii)  issuance of a decree establishing an Approvals Comittee
responsible for implementing the new Investment Code, such a
comittee being independent from API's Board of Directors
(para. 127);
(iii) adoption of an improved system of exchange risk guarantees
(para. 130);
(iv) submission of a draft VAT law to the Tunisian National Assembly
(para. 131);
(v)   an exchange of views with the Bank on policy changes and on a
timetable for implementation of changes aimed at preventing
employers' contributions to the social security system from
increasing further in the short term, and reducing them
gradually in the longer term, without undermining the financial
integrity of the system (para. 132 (i));
(vi) employment of consultants for the technical assistance program
aimed at training the staff of the Ministry of Social Affairs
and of selected enterprises in the implementation of the
Government's new salary policy (para. 132 (ii));
(vii) review by the Bank of a program and agreement on a timetable of
changes in labor and employment legislation aimed at improving
the adaptability and flexibility of labor laws (para. 132
(iii));
(viii) Bank confirmation of satisfactory progress in implementation of
the overall medium-term industrial and trade policy adjustment
program (para. 124).
D. Mament. Coordination and Monitorig
141.     Management and coordination of the adjustment program, including both
its macro-economic and sectoral components, would be the responsibility of the
Minister of Planning and Finance, with assistance from the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce, and the Central Bank. Analytical and monitoring
support would be provided by the Directorate-General of Planning in the
Ministry of Planning and Finance. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that a semi-annual report on the implementation of the macro- and
sector-adjustment programs would be provided to the Bank, followed by an
exchange of views on the status between the Government and the Bank.
E. JustWifcation and Risk
142.           The package of macro-economic and sectoral adjustment measures
is expected to have a favorable impact on economic growth in general, the
allocation and use of economic resources, the balance of payments and the



- 49 -
public finance situation in particular. Its emphasis on decontrol,
transparency of policies and avoidance of bureacratic interference in the
econoqy, is expected to result in a distinct improvement of the general
business climate reinforced by the streamlining of the tax system under MITAP
and the IMF program and the increased flexibility to be introduced into
industrial employment polic!.es. Together, this should result in higher
trading and exports of goods and services, higher private investments, higher
employment creation, a decline in the ICOR, a gradual decline in the balance
of payments current account deficit, and in the overall budget deficit. Any
comprehensive adjustment program of this size and complexity necessarily
entails some element of risk. The strict limits on domestic demand might not
be maintainable due to social, political and economic pressures .(too rapid an
increase in salaries, too rapid growth in domestic credit and money
circulation and less rapid than expected reduction in the budget deficit).-
The growth of non-oil/non-phosphate exports might be slower than expected for
exogenous as well as indigenous reasons (worse than expected world market
conditions, political troubles around the Mediterranean, insufficient export
incentives, excessive domestic demand). Higher than expected domestic demand
combined with lower exports would put heavy pressure on the balance of
payments, jeopardizing the liberalization program, particularly Qf imports,
which is a key element in the overall adjustment process.   While these risks
are real and unavoidable, they are limited by; (a) the considerable amount of
policy measures already taken by Government; (b) the Government's clear
commitment to continue the adjustment program, as expressed in the basic
policy documents underpinning the preparation of the VIIth Plan and clerrly
presented to the recent congress of the ruling political party; and (c' the
proposed gradual approach to change, which permits the economy to adapt to the
new policies steadily, but progressively within a realistic time period.
143.    The sector adjustment measures are expected to have a favorable
impact on sector productivity and on both the balance of payments and fiscal
deficits. Some of the benefits will only be realized in the longer term; all
of them, however, are vital to the process of adjustment and development. The
absence of bureaucratic second guessing of investment decisions would
contribute to more rational market-driven investment decisions; together with
the streamlining of financial sector supervision and export and trade
promotion actions, this should impact favorably on growth and the balance of
payments. Institutional and employment related actions should lead to greater
efficiency in the use of economic and budgetary resources. The tourism sector
study should lead to reform action which in turn, should benefit the balance
of payments and fiscal situation through optimization of the country's
considerable tourism potential.
144.    The risks facing the sectoral adjustment program relate to the length
and difficulty of the process, the unpredictable developments in the external
environment and the uncertainties in the response of the private sector to the
program. While Tunisia's record in implementing reform agreed with the Bank
is satisfactory, the magnitude of the adjustments needed and inter-
relationships between them create some risk about the pace of implementation
and saintaining the integrity of the, reform package.  The response on the
export front, specifically contingent on actions by Tunisia's trading partners
and competitors and on how the private sector will respond to the changing
environment, is difficult to predict with precision.



-50-
145.    The design and innsgmunt of the sectoral adjustment program has
built-in feature to minimimoe.the.e risks.  First, strong linkages with macro-
economic action  a     itepgr    art of the design. Second, the specific
actions art -,be taken over a short 12-18 month period for which uncertainty
Is less. Mh1rd, tho phased approach to iWlementing the sector reform
inherently peaitii flexibility and adjustments between phases, in light of
sectoral and  aicro-econouic developmts.
PART VI - REGOMMEDATON
146.    I am satisfied that tb's proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recomund that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Janur 28, 1987
Washington. D.C.
Annexes
e8~~~~~~~~~-
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~
' ;'~~~~~'
!   :-



-51-                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
IEJ - DUC DOI
Anm.L OQuit, A
AmpiaL                        (~~~~~~at 1960 gdm)
bdlUm 831                        kobu                    Pfl..
TaUsugta* at Lint jzia)
1983         IM    115  11    1m    196   195          1966    1817 19 1
Qim  .dtic p :t  8i ,272.6                  7A    5.5  -05    4.7   5.7   5.7    -LO          4.0   3.4
lrim1hum                     1,255.8      9.9   6.5  -10.3   2.5  12.9  17        -12S      9.5   3.5
Tia__y                       2,U84        9.0   6.8   (L1    6.7   3.B   LS         LU      1.9   3.4
3,510.8     7.7   6.6   2.    3.    5.1   4.9         1.7      3.8   3.4
6,5312      12.7   7.4   3.0   4.9   5.9   3.1        L2       3.3   2.8
QG  imuam                      2198.6      0.9   15.1  -0.7  -2.2       9 -13.0   -15.4       4.3   4.
Eqmu of V.ald WES              2,699.9     0.0   3.5  -69    0.9    27   3.3          1S      3.9   4.4
tp.t of 1ods ad WS            3,307.1      4.5  13.0 h9   -2.2   5.7 -13.0    -L7             2.6   3.6
Q1  rAjuimi :c                8,191.1      7.9   5.7  -0l    4.7   5.3   4.3    -0.9          4.0   3.4
Qua  :udru                     1,609.9    -4.7   0.3  -1Z.9   4.2   3.2   9A    -13.A         7.4   6.1
Gm delawr (19D - 280)                     10D.0  UL4  13.2   AL.2  151.6 13.8    15.0
_tcbm      von                            2.6   2.0    L69   L473  L2187 LV3    17
(a  wcww  2r                                  Co em m   DS ge
17      17      16       18       16      1      l9n-76      197641       196146       19661
ntme auIgt 1  20               1.         0.0 DO.    30.0 DD0.0    7.1                 6.1          3.6          3.4
-giculta             19.4    17.8    17       122      13.5    14.0    6.3          L6          4.0          4.3
zy                  2        252      32.0       30.5    269   3.5     86          6.9          3.0          3.1
smfd=               47.1    44.0    41.8    43.    44.6    413.0    7.1            6.5         3.9          3.4
60.5    77.3    761      79.3    8.7    78.7    8.9            7            4.2         2.7
Qu. ifsm.               21.5    30.7    3X.3   2793    2.6        2L3    5.9           6.6         -3.9          4.0
fnau of Moab ad WS   24.1    2S.1    414         35.4    29.8    33.9    7.1           8.5          0.8          2.8
-at3f ci      ad WS   2L1       37.0    49.8    44.0    3.1       348    11.6         I8           -2.4          1.6
Q~ ua   i..l PM=        99.6    97      A0.8   IM.2    99.2    99.8    7.0             5.6          3.3          3.5
-b   _im                -0A     -1.3      0.8     L.2   --8       -02      8L         -1.5        -14.8           . Y
imlstinr Lm.1    214                24.6   l2        155     21.    -2.3          4.2        -0.2          6.6
~i z Of IW
>es-c                                            .8    32.3    312        32.2    31.2
QA=    _adku                                     193      21.5    23.1    24.4    23.8
aijpha (I) or dicit C-)                           69       7.8     &.I.    7.8      7.5
wizl  _Aib" 3/                                   11.8    15.3    15.1    16.3    15.2
IOAP f mia                                        LO       LO      1.7      2.3     3.3
71g-76      1976116
am Bmiwa
-  1w       PO gm"   mo                          4.4          3.9          0.9          1.0
2.7         5.2         10.4          6.3
.r awir  =to                               -0.0          0.1        -42            0.4
Wmtelitiait                                      L6           1.8        -0.7           0.5
Gm ~ at umt gm= ad amwmwds at fw-tc  cit.                                                umm au-c
hnpaod PMu iant   jgiMPM&                                                              .Jm7y 197
7    f  de dbt _imi
ii,b  -  mt ciodtl  a    of nWtaw vtulma.



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
SsIA - CaL  IRE
Awal GQuh R e
AM=                                              (at 1980 Price.)
(illio  U$ IkbAI                                                  Prel.       PRmcted
at current prces)
Indiretor                    1985            1910   1981   1912   1983   19Gb   1985        196        1987   1991
Exports of gos               1,729.2           -0.4    4.3  -8.9    3.2    1.2   -1.0          4.6        2.0    4.1
Peerolem                     723.3            2.2  -7.3  -Z0.9    0.6  -1.0   -3.7          -.1       -9.0  -It7
Agricults                     8W.4          -3L1   83.5  -383  -13.4   62.1  -3.2           12.8        4.0    4.0
lizqste tacks                40.3             4.2  4LO   27.8    0.6  -12.1   24.6           5.6        5.5    5.5
Mfataurizu                   885.2            0.0   16.9    8.7    6.9   -1.0    LO          11         8.9   L86
hyoers of gods              2,740.6            4.5   11.7    0.9   -3.4    5.9  -5.2         -1.3        2.4    3.9
Food                         333.4           -7.0   2.1  -7.7   21.7    2.6  -227           19.7        1.4    0.6
Ietwtrle                    369.6             7.9  -87  -*6.9    3.0    7.3    3.8         -3.9         4.6   17.1
harenndiae g                892.3            11.0    3.9   12.4  -62    9.7  -13.4          LI         3.6    3.6
Cqiital  os                 63.0             -2.2   40.9   15.8  -19.5    9.8  -28.5       -20.0       0.8    3.7
Othes                        Yi2.4            6.3    6.6    6.1   10.8  -3.6   -v.3        -7.8         Ll    L5
.~ ~ ~ c _       We 
Export prie i                               100.0   9L3   87.0   79.2   75.8   73.6          7.0       72.6   9L9
kw= prie  is                                100.0   93.4   84.5   50.0   78.7   787         820       83.4   948
Tern of td indet                            100.0  105.2  103.0   99.0   96.3   93.4        81.7       P7.0   97.0
Cayotiao of truhdise 7.ni (2)                            hew  A--I Increse (Z)
(a an   prices)                                     (at c           pris )
1971   1976   1981   1983   1966   19                 1971-76   29764"    1981-86   18-91
XPorcs of godls                 IW.O   10.0  100.0  100.0  10    10                         5.0       8.1       0.1       0.1
Pecrleus                     26.9   42.3   53.3   44.7   24.1    8L                     3.4       7.4   -  4.9      -20.2
Agriuldture                   IL6    4.5    3.1    4.4    5.5    5.3                    4.4       2.4       0.7       4.0
FFasphate rocks               9.9    7.7    1.9    2.1    2.6    3.0                    2.9      -LO        6.3       5.5
m,ufacfring                  50.7   45.5   41.7   48S   67.8   83.6                     9.2      10.9       4.5       87
hi5ts of goads                  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                   14.2     10.4      -3.3       1.6
Food                         19.6   12.3   11.4  t4.0   13.3  IL0                      -1.9      11.6       0.5       0.7
ecroleun                      3.6   11.1   19.8   11.2    7.1    6.6                   30.5      17.6     -6.1      -5.9
Inrtemsliace goods           30.1   28.A   2.1   29.6   37.2   38.9                    12.1      10.2       0.4       3.6
Cqpitsl gools                27.7   31.9   25.4   25.6   20.8   21.0                   18.0       4.9     -10.7       2.9
Ochefs                        19.0   15.8   15.4   19.6   21.7   21.4                  12.1      11.4       0.1       1.3
S9re of Tra  vuith        Sure of Trade with          Sure of TIrae wirh        Sare of TruSe win
Idustrial Contries (2)    Dewl         couarius (2)      OitL sn        (2;)    s ly PlWd Caries (Z)
19701l975 1980 1984      1970 1975 1980 19__          1970 1975 1901            V7019731980194
DDVRD2I OF TRE
Exports             70.8 60.1 68.7 76.9         4.9 21.7 25.4 14.5         13.9 11.1  4.8  7.7        9.4  6.1  0.4  0.9
Imiorts             85.9  79.5 51.8 80.7       7.1 10.9  7.7 11.8          0.7  6.3  7.5  3.6        6.3  3.1  3.0  3.9
10!15fl,7EN& CPlI-C
Jimmy 1987-



~ 53  -                              .iANNEX  I
tan= - nmM OFse_. Dmours,Mem. a ush                            Page 3 of 3
SilMm  Wat avrns prim
Antu                      IbL .        eed
___ _ VW I19II DUb    _                             1Q5     1163     164D 111   -IW__
Nt bias of go    u                     -M&.   -409  -619.3   790.  -65.2   -6.3   -59.3  -t.0  -705.  -414.2
Equte of *si. 4 e      .373  3,92. 3,9465 3,4773  3,317.3  3,13   3,07.5 2,956.2 3,26L9 4,347.3
_atu at    ., A mate                 293.5L 463222 4,GLa8 4,2687 3.93.S  4,2.7   3,61.  33,779.2 3,*9.7 . .761.5
lbt t_hn                                 10.3   58.5  -1I82    23.4   11.9    10.9          10.7   11.7   12.5    15.9
Qriet ac  hwb      .                    -36.6  -351.4  -449.0  -767.4  -43.3   4754    -568. 4 411.4  -93.3  -39L3
Dient prit. iniemmct                     50.9   236.0   367.2  4005   223.8  23.0          139.S   17.2   117.6  195.2
ewco                                     50.7    41.5   23.3   19.0   25.3        3L6       3665    4L7    3.3   4K.6
mt Ls C(md                              @5.7   346.9   332.8   33.8   499.8   329.4    314.2   562.4  713.1  196.9
Official                               1LO   266       27.l  239.0   25.8    35          216.1   551.0   64.6   407.5
ft-inr                                 32.7   83.3    60.7   84.8   25.0    36.9          98.1    11      164  -210.7
Odur sqaital                             IL2    138L0   15L9   -18.8  [76.1  -13L8          8L3      0.0    0O0     0.0
asw  in  auen  (- -,1 i  incn.)        -157.5  -72.3   31.7  -54.7    30.5    172.6        1.8      8O.  -17.7  -38.4
Iatzin.1    EF lO1                              70.8   GZLI   6768   663    473.7    29.0   2A4.0   396.7   631.6
hmerumuflat.                              2.2     2.0     1.6    1.9    2.0        1.4       1.0    0.7    2.2       1.6
1976    1979    19O 1991 133               19U3   iW1        1985
Officid grts                                53.2    50.7    41.5    773       19.0    25.3    28.6    36.5
CCc. dimbrmwen of ?LT                      36 2U.0    b393    562.2  6461       03    872.B    744.2   750.7
Cucsi.n1                                   109.3   1408    207.6  2S0.4   2672    167.2    159.2    133.7
*ilax--                                 100.4   140.0    199.7  234    251.0   150.2    148.6   122.4
ML                                       a9       0.2      1.0     LI       1.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
lu lea i l                               0        0.6      6.9    4.9    15D        17.0      L6     11.3
lurcessinal                                13.7   49L5    354.6  405.7   4031    705.6   585.0   617.0
P=i_te                                  71.6    373    ZZ5.4  231.9   274A    416.4    26L0    3113
Oficil qt credits                         .9    49.6    55.5    6S9        253      93.4    21.9   149.6
ID                                      25.3    55.4    51.1   69.4    818         89.6    88.0   l38O
nttPr maktst.ml                         2L9      15.2    22.6   3L5        21.6    36.2      13.1    3.1
I Ot tadiq ad Disuand                  .,l.L4   3.021.0  3,229.6 3,323.8  3.56L4  3,858.2  3.I01.7  4,441.9
official                               976.0  1,4l.1  2,03.L5 2,175.3  2.3596   2,531.3  2,635.5  3.1165
W127.8   272.0   269.0  319.5   375.6   434.2    480.9   532.2
ML                                    64.1     673      67.9   67.5    67A        67.0    66.2    65.6
Odwr                                  78461  1,554.7  1,701.6 1.783  1,95L4  2,0301   2,13.4  2.514.9
Prine                                  206.4  1,16.9  1.19L.  1,145.5  1,165.6  1.326.9  1.116.2  1,323.5
Ud isbas dbt                           1,133.0  1,869.6  2,012.4 2,150.0  21       2,39.4   2.7347  2,E.6
Total derice paense                       9L9    316.3   43L4   518.2   481    569.6    653.9   676.9
=ame                                    37.0    162.8   216.1   3,9    199.7    196.7    239.1   241.5
Pajine   Z S                               6.7    10.1    110    13.1    14.0    17.2  Z1.B    224
sjets asZG                                 2.2 4Z    4      4.9      61      5.9      7.0      8        8.3
Ibrid lm*W! a..E:
Debt _astdi                             1.8       7.7      L3      9.6    10.5    113        32.6    I2.1
Dis dmas                                10.4      8.7      9.1    10.7    12.2    10.3    11.        15.7
Debt S&ti                               16.6     1.l       L5      8.2    10.7    11.2       12.0    13.6
qianet rem  af mm    (                5.5      7.2      6.7     L0       7.6      8.3      8L       7.8
Official                                 4.3      5.6      5.7     6.9      6.7      7.1      8.2     6.9
Pri'ae                                   7.9      9.8      9.8   10.3       9.6     9.8      7.9      9.5
szqe onturiy of nm  l1m (>e r.)           16.3    15.8    173    15.4    16.5    13.5    13.5    15.7
Official                                20.5     19.4    19.B   m1         19.3    17.2      15.1    18.8
Prin                                     1.4      9.1    10.2      B4      10L.     86       10.4     9.4
Ms Z of De Oatatadizg
at Fed of tet Vet
Yawr (1985)
-w S dzk z
dmitic d. within 5 yea                                       42.1
Atizati  due witbin 10 yrn                                   72.6
lant aetnu. of diet  _aadig 
utmu  6. Misot fiRt ye                                       4.3
1, twatWA6wiatoauw
I/ *Bb diq M amP%et              lig
Eat 011-C
10QU  67



ANNEl II
Page 1 of 2
L Sis    -o      m      uamuc n5 UKNr  if
A.  waser     LOWm AM ai COM     c. of s m               wo. e
us8 illum
lo   r                                                                             &m    CN
Cndh                                                                                 clumexu.)
ftte     Ue            naw                      -                              a"       DR   idiahnsd
loru7ffisI    ad tau  Daly ahaue                                               519.27    7.15
1mmi     zn        lpblic af 2lasaa           Rodi Nua (Thd 114)               32.                463
1675     19        Reptblk of  mduie          Saud VIta Sesmue                 26.5               6.5
1746     1979         ulic of lisia          Scud  Fiad                       28.5D              9.34
1796   IY8          qpbiec of Tmua            So"     IrDgadua                  19.50             3.6D
1797     1960      Office dbitu ltim  am        zd bst                         42.5               9.6
1mu1     1960      lqbtlic of Saiuia          Youth liSamy                     3.50              13 .17
1164     1980      Swit laimame de
1'BlsCtzit  oh dk         Sd  ni Sa dPipuS                  27.0n             3.79
135      1980      BEMu  1tm   de lhduis  Third 4Fi_uiia CQit                  30.08              2.47
LMS      1V6       bwtlic ci fia                   raaia                      21.08             14.46
1966     1961      Uht1ic of ludsi            malitta .Mo       h        t     30.0A             15.3
30       1961      EwUlt ctE bisis            t.1fl amd SptS                    12.S3             930
32E2     16    l9Uqlic oE Saua                t. Dicih           ad Staq        308R             1367
210      1         N962  Apblic Of Usiia      FitE 1W1 S (tax hua              35.5D             2s
2113     192       Bm                         K aice ad 1ahmie l ga01satris  3.3D                1L39
2136     06        S                          SlIdE imb  a4z                   s0s
2157     1962       eWbliq  oE lxdmi.         Irrgim         : he1q t           22.00D           1561
27       1962      U_i  OE labofDia           TDiwica_   saim.                  4S                2AO
zm13      rn        msuc fat      i           aim taipm                         25.08            2L.S
723       19p3 SpW          Eatlia             Matia V                         27.0              24.12
fl       1         iqami of laisia            c1mi laded  ruigtia               16I50            ILES
2s55     30        Nage    of aed                  s..rq m                      34.0             31.5
2        12963 4    q us bi of ade4a          Sin Flood kntma2 5.00                        18.2
230     3L3       S      t                    raBuny zJt(10f y                  16.8              7.8
23W6     1986    lUdc of labia                Kifg Mical Aeiatare               140              10.99
236        a*      uMic at 2M.iiM             S       1ww 5ly                  50.01             4453
23       2964      lySlic of sa               Scud Vit law.                     330              3L2E
2s55   D11         3aii lmisim  dB
1Sllwtdcid at du m        FOR ah                            21.70             21.31
20   DII S   ihqU de of labia                 NudE tat h g;iilcf l P d          150              1S.0
2522     19B 5 Uqpse   at Theisf  m  h        apr YSstre                       5.LO0      5Q.OD
2554     195       UqwdIic of binds           Swcud Msnril ad V caI            54.ao
2573     m         Eq9115e of Undid           Trvia  S         c Iqinfl    22.0          I       22.00
2605     1965  1_      lie at GE  .i,         Cabisrd.ga                       2D.70      2?.70
2735   91 1        Nztsdal at laia            fl   _       a                    4.02Z             -
2736     196        qlic of uisia              at Udatalh paI t                30.2D0             -
M24      196       UaMi of laia               &piazlbnl SeC  AdM lto           1500 L 1         15.OO0
SDL                                                      162         75.25   73W
Of didE ma bee  qdd                                        n      doa9M8
l saw amteradiq                                          1,331.fl   64.91
-   Sold                         25.53
aF iih   l_. b_, rqdd          2.21                        5.32
TOa wish  byl W* ad                                      1.326  4/ 66.91
Theel lubiraa                                                               735.47
I M  sto  of d         not. l isted ii Part A im dactrid in a saqif   ne am all 3*dImI  fimed woie
in _m,cda Whic is ipqisedt    yawly acd cicuated o dm Bdw  Di;ae an Al 30 ad                     31.
21  mit ye             iaJ My 15, 1966.
if  Efetiw am X 1ba    1  1S66.
z    rw tOD *-:bm    zet Dm *ljb.|.
1061y7I
Jsy7. 19117



-55-                                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
1. inn         U e DM=S       3 =Eam (Waa         p rm   use 
TMG at Animmes Lma  it US KilUc
1963           S   a  wu ttJilas                                    2.0         L5        3.5
d'ismstima (uw MM   Dv. Fi   eC.                                23        2.3
369           CM   lands (u  NWR)       1kv. Fists W.               LO          2.2    - 10.2
M973           gsim ibwiua   c
*bihisas S Si           Thms                        1.6         03        1.9
an             IbtSis Qo Flae iq  dar GM""                                      0.6       0.6
15             InciS ticiin at de
bwRqpamC ds SmjuurW  uadm                           2.5         0.6       3.1
BE/IS    d      SeS 1.1_m;t id l-us [nse t.                         3.1         035       3.6
195            BaSIS o tEm ds Spr
(Funer                    1f (X                                0Q3        0.3
IS             S                          Uas at FOists             5.0         3.2       8iZ
t    Cs _       _mc                                 2..2         1.5      3L.7
las emmallicu
Thmwtim. -.
a   ide                                            13.4          .8      15.2
MM by  C                                             L.a         9.7      18.S
mst u1iuaui                                          LI          LA       _9.5
Y1        adtis. i   -   - A SA. al tat Zii in         eztaisa 1misis ( sa  ,m
4 mS  spactialy. a ha 23 at iqiar 4. ISM b  km   t ya   u1.
U0W4



- 56 -
ANNEX III
REPUBUC OF TUNSIA
INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Suplementasry Projeet Data Sheet
Section k Timetable of Kery Events
(a) Time Taken to prepare project:                   About 12 months
(b) Project preparation responsibility:              Government/Bank
(c) Project first identified by Bank:                January, 1986
(d) Bank appraisal mission:                          October, 1986
Ce) Negotiations:                                    December, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                   April, 1987
Section 1[: Speeial Bank   plementan Atios
None
Section IM Speeial Conditions
Ca) Conditions of Effectiveness and Release of First Tranche (US$100 million)
[See para. 139 (a) and 140 (a)]
(b) Conditions of Release of Second Trancbe (US$50 million)
[See para. 139 (b) and 140 {b)]



-57-
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 11
Republic of Tunisia
Confidential
The President                                           September 1, 1986
World Bank
Washington D.C.
LETTER OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. President:
Within the framework of preparation of the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan and the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan, I have
the honor to set forth below Tunisia's principal development policy goals for
the period 1986-91.
After 15 years of rapid economic development, during which much
economic and social progress has been made, Tunisia is currently going through
a period of adaptation to the post-hydrocarbon era, a transition that is
particularly difficult because of recent events such as the sharp decline in
oil prices, difficulties in exporting phosphates and phosphate derivates, the
rise in the price of sulfur, and the decline in Tunisian workers'
remittances.
To cope with this situation, we have, as you know, adopted a strategy
oriented toward the rapid growth of non-oil/non-phosphate exports, the
recovery of agricultural production, and the containment of domestic demand.
In this way we intend to ensure continued growth and the creation of new jobs
while preserving a tolerable and sustainable external balance.
To this end, a number of measures have been implemented over the past
few years, of which the following are the most significant:
-    wages were delinked from the cost-of-living index in 1983 and since
then the minimum wage has been increased only once by about 10%;
-    the Government's investment budget was reduced by close to 1% in real
terms in 1985 and by around 22  in 1986;
-    a flexible exchange rate system was adopted; together with the 10%
change in the exchange rate of the Dinar, announced in mid-August
1986, this made it possible to absorb the rise in the value of the
dinar in relation to the currencies of partner countries and to
improve competitiveness on the export markets;



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 oE 11
-    deposit and lending interest rates were increased and have mostly
become positive in real terms;.
-    the prices of products subsidized by the Caisse GCnerale de
Compensation were adjusted, leading to a gradual decrease in
compensation costs with a consequent reduction in budgetary subsidies;
-    producer prices of agricultural products were increased, in
particular for cereals, livestock products and olive oil, to
stimulate and promote production in this priority sector;
-    investment approval procedures on small and medium-scale industrial
projects were simplified and decentralized;
-    an export credit insurance system was established to provide security
for exporters and encourage them to explore new markets;
-    the export prefinancing mechanism was revised, raising-the ceiling
from 10 to 202 of the value of the export and extending the teris
from 90 to 180 days;
-    lastly, export incentives were strengthened within the framework both
of the law on export industries and of the law on encouragment of
the manufacturing industries.
Thanks to these policy changes, accompagnied by a reduction in
imports, we have been able to bring about significant improvements in the 1985
financial situation. In particular, we have achieved:
-    an increase in nou-oil/non-phosphate exports of 4Z at constant
prices, against an average of 1.5S over the period 1982-1984;
-    a marked reduction in the current balance of payments deficit, which
fell from 10.9% of GDP in 1984 to less than 72 in 1985;
-    a reduction in inflation to 7.8X in 1985 against 8.61 in 1984 and
13.61 in 1982;
-    a limitation of the net consolidated State budget deficit to a level
(51 of GDP) virtually in line with the budget.
Preliminary estimates for 1986 indicate a further slow-down in the
rate of inflation to about 6.61, and a slight decline in the consolidated
budget deficit to about 3.91 of GDP. However, as a result of the sharp
decline in oil prices, depressed tourism demand because of political
uncertainties around the Mediterranean, and the serious drought, the current
balance of payments deficit is likely to worsen in 1986 to about 8.5-9% of
GDP, requiring a higher than expected inflow of foreign resources.
Over the coming years the stabilization effort will be consolidated
and strengthened to enable us to deal successfully with the two major problems
still facing Tunisia, namely that of balance of payments equilibrium,
resulting principally from the foreseeable decline in foreign exchange
earning3, and that of unemployment and underemployment resulting from rapid
growth in the active population.
We therefore intend to continue our efforts to curb the budget
deficit and current balance of payments deficit so as to contain the external
debt within limits compatible with our repayment capacity.
At this level, and although the goals of the VIIth Plan have not yet
been established, we intend to introduce a development plan for the next five



~ 59 -                   ANN    rv
Pase 3 of 11
years based on an annual increase in non-oil and non-phosphate exports of 7 to
81, at constant prices, and real GDP growth of 3.5 to 41, resulting in a
gradual decline of the net budgetary deficit and a marked decrease in the
current balance of payments deficit (from 10.91 of GDP in 1984 to around 61 in
1988 and under 42 in 1991).
To achieve those goals, we intend to vigorously pursue policies aimed
at restricting domestic demand and promoting exports. More precisely, we
intend to accelerate the policy of gradual liberalization of the economy, in
particular as regards imports, prices and investments, so that by 1991 we
shall have abolished most of the administrative controls in those areas. We
also intend to strengthen domestic competition by bringing down import duties
and reducing disparities in the effective protection levels.of the various
branches of economic activity, and to ensure the competitiveness of export
products by pursuing a prudent and moderate wage policy and maintaining a
flexible exchange rate system.
These various structural adjustment measures, which are listed in the
attachment to this letter, together with an implementation schedule, should
lead to a marked improvement in the general economic enviroment and an
increase in the effectiveness of the sectoral reform measures being
implemented in the agricultural, industrial and external trade sectors, or in
the course of preparation in other key sectors such as public enterprises,
energy, transportation, education, etc.
It goes without saying that the policy, which we bave designed for
the purpose of adapting our economy to the post-hydrocarbon era, will be
facilitated if the Bank will give favorable consideration to our request with
respect to the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and the Industrial and
Trade Policy Adjustment Loan, and will support our medium-term adjustment
efforts with other sector loans.
We appreciate the discussions we have had with the Rank and hope to
continue to exchange views in the future.
Very truly yours
Isl Ismail Khelil
Minister of Planning and Finance



-60                          ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 11
Attachment
September 1, 1986
THE MACROECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        The basic strategy underlying the Government's macroeconomic
adjustment program reflects its objective of maintaining economic growth and
speeding up employment creation by stimulating non-oil/non-phosphate exports,
achieving a more efficient utilization of domestic resources and promoting
savings through more rigorous demand management.
2.        To achieve these objectives, the Government intends to pursue its
course of macroeconomic policy adjustment in eight areas: wages and salaries,
the exchange rate, the budget, interest rates, credit and monetary policies,
and price, investment and import liberalization. The action program in each
of these areas is summarized below.
3.        Wages and salaries.  Given the decisive role cautious wage and
salary policies play in any effort to control domestic demand, improve
international competitiveness and ensure more rapid employment creation; the
Government decided in 1983 to delink wages and salaries from the
cost-of-living index; in consequence, the minimum wage has remained unchanged
during 3 1/2 years from January 1983 through July 1986, and average salaries
have declined by nearly 151 in real terms during the same period. The
Government will pursue. these wage policies, limiting wage increases to
productivity growth and to the financial situation of each enterprise.
In July 1986, Government raised the minimum wage by 10S but it has
no intention to increase the minimum wage on average by more than the
inflation rate during 1986-1987. During the remainder of the VIIth Plan
period, it plans to follow a minimum wage policy which ensures that the growth
of the total wage bill will not exceed the growth of GDP at current prices.
4.        Government Budget.  Recognizing the importance of reduced budget
deficits in restoring internal and external financial stab*ility, the
Government introduced a program of reducing budget deficits in 1985 and 1986.
It is determined to follow through on this effort so as to reduce the
consolidated budget deficit, net of debt repayment 1/, from 51 of GDP in 1985
to 1.51 in 1988 and practically to zero in 1991.  In spite of declining oil
revenues, the Government is determined to maintain the budgetary savings rate
at around 61 of GDP, while reducing the share of public investments in GDP,
particularly by cutting the Government's contributions towards public
enterprise investments.  The detailed u"asures envisaged to achieve these
targets are mentioned in Annex I to this attachment.
11   Including Chapters I and II of the Government's Budget, the Special
Funds, the Treasury operations, and the non-budgeted operations financing
direct investments by the Government.



-61 -MEXIV
Page 5 of 11
5.        Interest rate policy.  Thanks to the interest rate increases in 1985
and 1986 and the drop in inflation, the Government has ensured that most
interest rates are now positive in real terms. During the period of the VrItb
Plan, the Government will maintain flexible interest rate policies designed to
ensure positive rates on most deposit and lending operations. The exceptions
will be limited to certain credits for low-income groups, such as parts of the
loans granted by FOSDA, FOPROLOS, FONAPAM, FOPRODI and FODERI, and certain
forms of high-priority lending such as seasonal credits, export prefinancing
and the financing of renewable energy resources.
Furthermore, to improve the efficiency and viability of financial
institutions, the Government intends to pursue its simplification of the
interest rate structure and relaxation of existing regulations. To this avail
a detailed program of action will be prepared and discussed with the Bank
within the framework of preparation of the VIIth Plan, expected by April 30,
1987.
6.        Monetary and credit policy.  The Goverament is firmly committed to a
monetary and credit policy that is consistent with declining budget deficits
and investment rationalization; this implies that during 1986-91 the growth of
the money supply will be kept within a range whose upper limit will not exceed
the growth of GDP in nominal terms.
7.        Exchange rate policy.  The Tunisian Government is aware of the
importance of this instrument in regulating external trade. Accordingly, it
introduced in 1985 a flexible exchange rate system, which made it possible at
first, to absorb tbe rise in the value of the dinar in relation to
competitor-country currencies. The situation improved further in mid-August,
1986 when the exchange rate was depreciated by 101 vis-a-vis a basket of
foreign currencies. This improved the competitive position of Tunisian
products by about 282 compared to the situation prevailing at the end of June
1985. The Goverment will continue this flexible policy so as to maintain an
appropriate level of competitiveness for Tunisian products. It also agrees
that any exchange rate adjustments will be reflected in the administered
producer prices for agricultural products.
8.        Price Controls.  The Government has for several years pursued a
policy of gradual decontrol of agricultural producer prices. This policy will
continue and will be extended to the manufacturing sector. In particular, the
Government intends, over a period of three years (1986-48), to phase out all
price controls in well-established industries where the number of domestic
producers is sufficiently large to ensure appropriate competition. A detailed
timetable for phasing out price controls is presented in Annex II to this
attachment.
Between 1989 and 1991, the Government intends to abolish price
controls in all other industries in close-coordination with the liberalization
of imports, with the exception of a few key staples (such as bread, semolina
and oil) of which the price must remsin regulated for social reasons.
In the event of monopolistic agreements, however, the Government
would reserve the right to intervene to reestablish satisfactory competition.



-62-                        ANN  IV
Page 6 of 11
9.        With respect to those industrial products for which the price will
remain regulated over the short or *edii_-ter., the Government intends to
introduce a more flexible price control procedure on January 1, 1987 that
would allow the enterprise to chane a price unilaterally, by reference to
agreed parameters, and to apply the new price folloving a resonable time
lapse, provided there is no justified objection on the part of the Government.
To this end, the Government will-with assistance by the World
Bank-devise rapidly the operation formulas to be used by entrepreneurs in the
various industries. These formulas must be geared to the appropriate
utilization Of Lnstalled production capacLties and the adequate control of
production costs.
10.       Investment liberalization.  In the context of a system of gradual
decontrol of the economy, the Government intends to phase out the control (by
API, APIA and the Tourim Investent Board) of investments not eligible for
special incentives or benefits, in parallel with the liberalization of prices
and of external trade, within the framework of a nev investment incentive
policy.
The Government bas decided to abolish by the end of 1986 all
controls on investments belov DT 200,000 and on replacement investments not
requiring a specific import authorization for capital equipment and not asking
fo, special investment incentives; it intends to continue this process in 1987
and 1988 with a view to the abolition, in parallel with the overhaul of the
incentive system, of the approval requirements for other well-established
industries for which the number of domestic producers is sufficiently large
to ensure appropriate competition.
The approval procedure will be maintained for all investment
projects that are asking for special investment incentives linked to transfers
of technology, regional development and exports.
-      In early 1989 the Government is to start on a program leading to the
abolition, by 1991, of investment controls in all remaining sectors, except
for investments asking for special investment incentives.
11.       Import liberalization.  Cognizant of the importance of import
liberalization in improving domestic resource use and allocation and, in
general, in helping to achieve the country's development goals over the next
five years, the Goverment reaffirms its intention of gradually liberalizing
imports. It intends to effect this decontrol by two principal means:
reduction of quantitative restrictions and rationalization of import duties.
12.       (a)  Quantitative restrictions.  In mid-August 1986 the Government
abolished all restrictions on imports of raw materials and semi-finished
products for companies exporting at least 25% of their turnover as well as of
spare parts for use in industry, farms, hotels, bospitals. and other
services. It intends to abolish before end-September 1986 all restrictions on
imports for newly approved investment projects and for raw materials used in
the manufacture of pharmaceutical products.
Not later than January 2, 1987, Government intends to abolish
restrictions on all other spare parts and raw materials, as well as on



-63-                          UNICT'
Page 7 of 11
semi-finished products for compaies exporting at least 15 of their turnover
and for those that are reaosnbly integrted.
Not later than January 2, 1988, it plans to lift import restrictions
on capital goods and semi-finished products, with the exception of a list of
products which are used exclusively in poorly-integrated plants to be
discussed with the Bank.
Starting in 1989, the Government will Introduce a program leading to
the abolition, by 1991, of the remaining quantitative restrictions, mainly
those on consumer goods.
13.       (b)  Import duties.  In line with its concern to promote exports,
and to ensure greater efficiency of resource allocation, the Tunisian
Government intends to gradually reduce import duties and to leasen the
disparities in the levels of effective protection between the various sectors
of the economy, the goal being to achieve a reasonably uniform effective
protection rate of around 251 by 1991.
To this end, it aims to introduce, on January 1, 1987, within the
framework of the 1987 Budget Law, the following changes in custom duties:
-    a raise in the minima duty to at least i$S;
-    a reducuction of all import duties to a msxiamu  of 50X;
-    reduction by 6 percentage points in all duties between 26 and 55%
with a minima not falling below 25X; with the possibility of
deferring some of these reductions by up to one year after
discussions with the Bak, in case a Tunisian enterprise suffers
serious  agmge as a result of exceptionally Large increases in .
imports and with the aim to provide that enterprise somewhat-more
time to adapt.
However, the Government reserves the right to introduce additional
consumption taxes on products of which tho local production or import is
regarded as a luxury or a waste of resources. so as to absorb all or part of
the loss in revenue resulting from the revision of customs duties.
It also agrees to continue this process in 1988, introducing on
January 1, 1988 a new import duty reduction of 9 percentage points on duties
between 26 and 50Z, once again with the possibility of offsetting certain
losses in revenue by consumption taxes, and over the long tern to incorporate
the "Taxe sur la FormalitA Douai&re" (TFD) into the actual customs duties,
for purposes of simplification.
Lastly, the Government intends to prepare before the end of 1988 a
program of further gradual tariff reductions so a  to achieve the objective of.
a 25% effective protection rate by the end of 1991.
14.       M;nitorinL and  rogess reLurtins.  Progress on the iplementation
of the program described above will be monitored by the Government and
reported to the Bank every six months.



I        .-~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
-ae  Sof 11
---  -  '.'<  - , \ >          Adjustment Program
V          '-GEX'  to Macr- e o
(aL)      GovrernnintSenu        11al noi lftlss than:. -
ssJ I..lTUt%ge.
30.6S of GDP99  ,.O7              ,................ 
29.0S " - " -   L988;a . Frk41    -declining to
27.OZ "  ' "1991..  N. .L,->
(b)       LecugYe.-_jtt3,,'enditut          '
24.02 of.  Pin    87; .               --', 
23.0: 9 -'Not. 1988             dec lining to
217.02       :t IL. ,9 -.,,
(c)       The _rowt_   i-e              not iv:t[ jervants emploxed sh:ll not exceed
ZZ p.a. during 19 0-91. e<JTx  pweraige' (A-Ai,:-ervice wage rate shall riot grow by
24.02 of GDP1*I 19872 t  e 6iip     968,adsalnt nr
more than the inflation- rate:.during          d 1986-87, and shaLl not increase
faster than private secitr -wages duziiig  he period 1988-91.
Cd)       The aggreg,at amouat\of 'aft s'  idieW  included in the Government
budget shall decline by at,least 52.pps. ln nominal terms ever the period
1986-91, with the Govenment as.ing e*ry effo-t"to reduce it even maore
rapidly, among others-thrc'hltargetgc  household subsidies increasingly on
the poorest segment 0o  the populsiiioci' On consequence of this policy is that
the increase in producerSprices for 4ricultural products proposed in the
medium-term agricultural setor adjustment prc;ram would be reflected as much
as possible in coneuour prices.
Ce)       Amounts included in the Gcvernment&budget for development outla s,
net of debt repayment'shall not exceed:.
8.02 of GDP in 1987;           -
7.5t "   "     1983; gradually,declining to
6.0% "   "  "  L991.
The Government intends to makea secteral and sub-sectoral
allocation of investment .Nrnds within titse &eobal Liuts as part of the
preparation of the VIlth beveLx?pment PlMn.   be reaultt-ng investment program
vill be assessed and ,d'itrised`wtth tbi Bank at tae tis2 the report of the
Public Expenditure kiSie' -msi.ion will i' daictzse4..
INO,
I    .  .,      .     -
;'t,   .-  .             -   4.   \    -v    i   4.
:' -           '           '~~  ~  ~    ~   ~  ~  ~~~~ I   .  .     . 



ANNEX IV
-65-                      Page 9 of 11
ANNEX II to Macro-economic
Adjustment Program
Price Liberalization Time-table
September 1. 1986
Building materials excluding lime, cement and sanitary appliances
Textiles excluding undergarments and articles made out of jute
EMI
-    car parts including batteries
-    hardware
-    TV antennas and parts
Canned sardines
Miscellaneous industries
-    plastic articles
-    graphic art
-    watches
-    joinery finishings in wood
-    cork articles
-    chandeliers
-    footwear and accessories
-    tannery products
-    packing materials of paper and cardboard
-    printed articles
-    small-wares
January 2, 1987
EMI-
control wire and meter transmission cables
electrical and telephone cables
refrigerators and cooking-stoves
boilers
Carpentry
Glue
Inks
Liquid detergents
Tires and rubber articles



-66-                         ANN  IV
Page 10 of 11
AISEC II to Macro-economic
Adjustment Program
July 1. 1987
Soap excluding perfumed soap
Food products
-    canned tuna
-    canned tomatoes
-    canned barinss
-    yogurt
-    cheese, excluding soft cheese
-    beverages
Furniture
Fertilizer
-    phosphoric acid
-    hyperphosphate
-    superphosphate, triple superpbosphate
-    dicalcium phosphate
-    moao amnium phosphate, diammonium phosphate
-    complex fertilizer
January 2. 1988
ELI
-    sound making equipment and parts
-    taps and faucets
-    bicycles and motorcycles
-    batteries and miscellaneous articles
Ani4al food
Chemical products
-    paint, varnish
-    perfmd soap
-    detergents
-    essetial oils
-    linseed oil
-    perfumes
-    insecticides and pesticides



-67                           A      NN IV (a)
Pas 1.1. of 11
ANM= 11 to Macro-economic
Adjustment Program
Household articles in inox and aluminium
Copper articles
Joinery finishings in aluminium
Electrical motors and transformers
Tomato paste
Canned vegetables and fruits



-68-               AN    V
PaRegl-of 11
LETTER ON INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY
January 27, 1987
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President, The World Bank
1818 B Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. President:
Further to the exchanges of views that have taken place between the
Tunisian authorities and the World Bank in the course of preparation of an
industrial and trade policy adjustment loan, our economic discussions and the
agreements reached on a macroeconomic adjustment program, I hbae the honor to
set out below the broad lines of our industrial development policy.
As you are aware, the manufacturing sector occupies an important
position in our development strategy for the post-hydrocarbon era. This
strategy gives priority to the rapid growth of exports of manufactures. At
present, manufacturing accounts for 14 percent of Tunisia's GDP, roughly 20
percent of employment, and one-third of the country's exports. Rowever,
except for the phosphate processing industry and the clothing industry, which
are largely export oriented, all other manufacturing subsectors are oriented
essentially towards the domestic market. This situation did not present much
of a bottleneck to the development of manufacturing during the seventies and
early eighties when the sector was still small, possibilities for import
substitution were large and domestic demand expanded rapidly, fueled by the
sharp rise in oil prices aad substantial wage hikes. Now, however, in the mid
eighties, this strategy seems to have reached its limits: the manufacturing
sector is no longer so restricted, the most obvious import substitution
activities are all covered and growth of domestic demand has slowed
substantially, reflecting the drop in oil production and prices.
Rapid growth of manufacturing production does depend crucially on a
substantial increase in exports of manufactured goods as a means of supporting
overall economic growth while at the same time generating new foreign exchange
earnings to offset the expected decline in oil exports. In the circzmstances,
exports of manufactures and tourism will be called upon to play a key role,
particularly as these are generally labor-intensive activities and so reflect
also the country's priorities in this area.
We have already begun a significant adjustment effort to address
these issues, and over the past two years we have endeavored to remove
administrative obstacles to exports and to establish the institutional
structure needed for their more rapid growth. May I refer to the following
examples:
---   elimination of export licenses, except for subsidized goods;
- --   partial elimination of export taxes;



ANNEX V
-69 -                 Page 2 of 11
-    improvements in the system for reimbursing i[port duties and taxes,
by including the TFD (Customs Formalities Tax) in the reimbursement, by
granting reimbursement at the time of customs clearance or even after export,
and by opening up the possibility of reimbursing the actual exporter (who is
not necessarily the importer);   -
-    improved customs arrangements for temporary admission and
warehousing;
-    increased opportunities for export prefinancing;
-    extending the authorized periods for settling export transactions
and repatriating the proceeds;
-    expanded opportunities for forward coverage of exchange risks;
-    liberalizing the use of accounts in convertible currencies and
increasJl-g the amounts that may be taken out of the country for business
travel;
-    introduction of a system of export credit insurance;
-    establishment of a number of export companies, several of which have
already begun operations;
-    establishment in 1985 of an export promotion fund to finance a
variety of export promotion measures;
-    establishment of two export promotion conmittees, one in the Central
Bank and the other in the Ministry of Comwerce and Industry, to deal with
day-to-day problems at the working level.
In addition, a macroeconomic adjustment program has been adopted and
is being implemented. It seeks to reduce existing rigidities and create the
environment needed for increased exports and optimal resource allocation.
This program, as set forth in detail in the letter on economic development
policy nf September 1, 1986, will be supplemented and reinforced by the
Sectoral Adjustment Program for the manufacturing and external trade sectors
that is to be pursued under the Seventh Development Plan, as expounded in the
attachment to this letter. In this regard, the Sectoral Adjustment Program
will have three precise objectives:
(i)   Encourage the growth of manufacturing output by making better use of
existing facilities and according priority to private investment;
(ii)    Encourage exports of manufactured products other than fertilizers
and petroleum products;
(iii)    Encourage the creation of additional jobs in manufacturing industry.
For the immediate future, the development strategy for the
manufacturing sector being pursued by the Tunisian authorities seeks to
improve the cost-effectiveness of existing activities and optimize the use of



{:-; ~~  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       MC
-                                     ~~~~~~~~ANNE V
-70 -              Pagse 3 oE 11
existing capacities.  In the longer term, it aims at promotig private
investment in activities that vill produce a direct economic return, given the
growing scarcity of funds for investai-eut and of foreign exchange resources.
The program of short-term measures already adopted or currently envisaged -
namely those designed to maintain an appropriate exchange rate and to develop
the role of the market and of prices in order to ensure better allocation of
resources - are entirely consistent with the longer-ternm strategy.
The key measures, to be taken over the next few years, relate to the
implementation of a new investment code reflecting the new priorities, the
liberalization of credit policies and reorganization of the institutions for
promotion and support of the manufacturing sector, together with the
relaxation of laws and regulations governing labor and employment.
To enable us to meet the objectives of our policies aimed at
preparing the industrial sector for the post-hydrocarbon era, we hereby
request you to consider granting Tunisia a loan to be disbursed rapidly to
meet the needs of the industrial and trade policy adjustment program.
Very truly yours,
signed: The Minister of Planning and Finance
Ismail Khelil
Attachment



-71-              Pae 4 of 11
MEDIUM-TERM INDUSTRIAL POLICY ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        The Government's medium-term objectives for development of
manufacturing industry are to encourage private investment in the sector, step
up the expansion of exports of manufactured goods, and create a growing number
of new jobs. To this end, the Tunisian authorities have already adopted an
adjustment program, focusing largely on the areas of foreign exchange, wage
policy, interest rates, and progressive deregulation of prices, investment and
imports in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Letter of Development
Policy dated September 1, 1986. This macroeconomic program, several
provisions of which have already been implemented, will be supplemented and
strengthened by a number of sectoral measures set forth below.
2.        These measures fall iuto two broad categories:
(i)   Improved incentives to invest, with a view to encourage private
investment by relaxing controls, allowing private enterprises greater freedom
of action, and creating a more favorable environment. These incentives should
proaote exports and create new jobs by changing the relative cost of factors
of proiZLsion in favor of labor.
(ii)    Search for greater efficiency in the financial sector, notably
through improved management of the money supply by the Central Bank;
elimsination of prior Central Bank authorization of individual credit
operations; a more flexible interest rate policy, and improvements in the
system of exchange risk coverage for external loans taken out by the
development banks.
3.        At the same time, the Tunisian auLhorities intend to continue with
implementation of the program of reforms undertaken in recent years. To this
end:
-    administrative measures for export promotion will be strengthened
further;
-    the powers and responsibilities of the para-public institutions
established to support and promote the manufacturing sector will be adapted to
encourage private initiative;
-    the wage policy that has been pursued since 1983 will be continued
in coming years.  The de-linking of wages from the cost of living index will
be maintained, and any salary increase will be linked to productivity
improvements and the finAncial situation of each enterprise. Other
improvements will be sought by holding down social security costs and
introducing greater flexibility into conditions of employment.
4.        The Tunisian authorities also plan to conduct a study of tourism to
identify reforms needed to stimulate the growth of a more diversified and
higher-quality tourism.



ANEX V
- 72 -          Paxe 5 of 11
A. General Liberalization Measures
5.        Within the context of the macroecnnomic measures that have been
taken in 1986, the authorities have decided to eliminate price controls over
the period 1986-88 for well-established industries where the number of
domestic producers is sufficiently large to ensure appropriate competition.
This list was sent to the Bank as Annex II to the letter of September 1,
1986. Over and above the products shown on that list, the authorities intend
to eliminate price controls on all products whose importation is to be
deregulated over the period 1987-88 and beyond. This applies to all raw
materials, spare parts, capital goods and the great majority of
semimanufactures.
6.        Concerning those industrial products for which prices will remain
regulated over the short or medium term (mentioned in the attachment to the
letter of Economic Development Policy), the Government will take the necessary
measures, so that by the time these products are decontroled, abrupt price
increases or decreases can be avoided to the extent possible.
7.        During the period 1989-91, the last import restrictions (confined
essentially to consumer goods) will be lifted except for a limited number of
products whose importation will continue to be controlled for social and
political reasons. The Government intends to decontrol at least one-third of
these retaining imports by January 2, 1989, at least two-thirds by January 2,
1990, and everything by January 2, 1991. The lifting of price controls will
proceed in parallel witb the elimination of quantitative restrictions on
imports.
As regards infant industries, the Government has the intention to
limit specific protection measures to a maximum duration of three years from
the date of completion of the project. Except in duly justified cases, this
protection shall not take the form of quantitative import restrictions; and in
no case shall there be a complete import ban of the product.
B. Investment Incentives
8.        Within the context of the macroeconomic objectives of the Seventh
Plan, the Tunisian authorities intend to modify the procedures for investment
and for the granting of related benefits and incentives. To this end, the new
Industrial Investment Code currently in preparation lifts all Government
controls on industrial investments and confines the granting of incentives to
just those few projects that correspond to the key priorities of the Nation.
The new Code introduces five major changes:
(i)    It is highly selective, in that special incentives can only be
granted to high-priority projects meeting certain clearly specified criteria;
(ii)    It eliminates the distinction between new projects and replacement
and expansion projects;
(iii)    It eliminates prior Government examination and approval of
investments not eligible for special incentives;



AM=E V
_n -3 _Page 6 of 1l
(iv)    It makes the granting of incentives virtually automatic once the
necessary conditions have been met; and
(v)    It focuses the incentives available on the basic objectives of the
Seventh Plan, notably export promotion and the creation of jobs in
disadvantaged regions.
9.       Many of these incentives are covered by ordinary law, i.e. are
granted to export enterprises independently of any prior Government
authorization or approval. Export enterprises will in particular benefit from
the suspension of duties and taxes on inputs, whether imported or purchased
locally, and exemption from profits tax up to the value of export sales.
Other incentives will be specific in nature, i.e. will be tied to
investment projects meeting certain defined criteria, namely exports, creation
of. jobs in disadvantaged areas, acquisition of technology, and integration.
These incentives will take the following specific forms:
-    Exemption from duties and taxes on capital goods for units geared
exclusively toward exports.  All other projects will be required to pay duties
on imported capital goods. The rate of import duty on such goods has been
adjusted in the 1987 Finance Law to a level providing effective protection on
the order of 25X;
-    Payment of the social security contribution for a period ranging
from two to six years and provision of infrastructure in industrial estates at
501 to 100l of actual costs, depending on the area;
-    Payment of the cost of formal and on-the-job training for
technicians linked to the introduction and acquisition of new technologies.
10.       The Tunisian authorities intend to review at the end of the VIIth
Plan the incentives system established by the new investment code in view of
the macroeconomic situation at that time.
11.      The new Investment Code, which has already been the subject of many
discussions with the Bank, is expected to be submitted to the Chamber of
Deputies by early 1987, and it is anticipated that it will become effective no
later than July 1, 1987.
As an interim measure covering the period between implementation of
the new Code early in 1987 and the liberalization of capital goods imports
scheduled for early 1988, the Tunisian authorities have set up a procedure
under which projects that do not qualify for approval (agr6ment) may request
authorization from the Investment Commission to freely import the capital
goods required.
C. Financial Policy and Fiscal Environment
12.       In order to adapt the financial system to new demands from the
economy, the Tunisian authorities will continue to reform the instruments of
monetary and credit policy by combining adjustment of overall controls



- 74-              NEX  V
Page 7 of 11
exercised by the Central Bank with assigned increased responsibilities to
primary banks. Within the context of this reform, the Central Bank will adapt
its xmeans of intervention to the objective of keeping growth of money supply
within limits compatible to overall economic growth and balance of payments
equilibrium. At the same time, it will gradually relax the system of prior
authorization and mandatory placement requirements to which the deposit banks
are subject. Both borrowing and lending interest rates will be largely
deregulated to encourage savings and promote better resource allocation.
Lastly, the exchange risk coverage system for external loans contracted by the
banking sector will be modified to ensure that this risk is borne by the
end-user of the credit.
13.      As agreed with the International Monetary Fund, the banks will from
1987 onward raise the bulk of their funds on the money market, with fixed-rate
rediscounting to be available only for the priority sectors (exports,
agriculture, small and medium-scale enterprises, and energy-saving). Each
bank's fund-raising on the market at the daily rate will be subject to
ceilings based on its deposits, with excess fund-raising attracting a penalty
rate. To met the performance criteria agreed with the IMF, the Central Bank
will influence the volume of domestic credit by manipulating its intervention
rates on the money market and the refinancing ceilings allowed to the banks.
14.      To ensure better allocation of financial resources, bank borrowing
and lending interest rates will be deregulated as of January 1, 1987, with
however the following exceptions:
-    lending rates for priority sectors, which will continue to be
administered by the Central Bank;
-    borrowing rates on special savings accounts and convertible dinar
deposits held by Tunisians residing abroad, which will continue to be set by
the Central Bank with reference to money-market rates. All other rates will
be freely determined by the banks in response to market forces. The monetary
authorities will intervene solely in order to ensure that the rates paid on
term deposits are positive in real terms and to set ceilings on lending rates
to prevent usury.
15.       The banks will also have greater freedom in employing their funds.
Two restrictions to which they had previously been subject are to be eased:
(i)   The requirement that they use 18 percent of their funds for
medium-term lending was replaced, effective September 30, 1986, by an initial
figure of 7 percent (later to rise to 10 percent) linked to the financing of
investment projects in the artisanal sector, small and medium-scale
enterprises, agriculture and export industries;
(ii)    The various ceilings for short-term loans above which the commercial
banks have to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank has been raised
on January 1, 1987 to a uniform figure of TD 5 million. The system, thus, has
been considerably simplified and easier to administer: the TD 5 million
ceiling for total annual short-term loans outstanding will in practice apply
to only some fifty enterprises, most of them in the public sector, whose



75             ANNE V
Page B of 11
situation is deemed to require continued monitoring. Moreover, this
requirement wiii be lifted on January 1, 1988 for the few private-sector
enterprises still affected by this formality. Medium-term lending for the
financing of Government approved investments, of investments receiving special
Government incentives and of investments for handicrafts, other small
enterprises and small farmers has become exempt completely from a priori
authorization from the BCT. Mediu-term credit for the financing of all other
types of investments, would be exempt from BCT authorization after the
implementation of the new industrial investment code. The small vmount of
long-term lending is also exempt for private borrowers, while the a priori
suthorization is maintained for public enterprises regardless of the size of
the loan.
16.       As regards exchange risks, the Tunisian authorities, mindful of the
dangers of poorly spread risks or excessively generous guarantees, have
already taken steps to channel resources on a regular basis to the Exchange
Risk Equalization Fund and to confine the guarantees to certain development
banks - essentially BDET (Banque de D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie),
specializing as it does in the financing of small and medium-scale enterprises
- given the inability of borrowers to protect themselves against this type of
risk.
In order to further improve the efficacy of this system, a number of
modifications will be introduced as of mid-1987, reflecting the following
three principles:
-    The end-user of the loan will himself bear the exchange risks where
his operations are on a sufficient scale to enable him to do so;
-    Adoption of specific criteria governing access to exchange risk
guarantees designed to restrict eligibility solely to smal1 and medium-scale
enterprises;
-    Changes in the way in which the Equalization Fund is financed
designed to ensure its integrity without recourse to government subsidies.
Studies are in progress to examine the possibility of financing the Fund
through variable commissions depending on the currency borrowed, which could
reflect the difference between the cost of borrowing plus the intermediation
margin and the lending rate obtaining on the domestic market.
At the same time, the Central Bank of Tunisia will be conducting
studies to examine possible ways of providing forward coverage of the exchange
risks bearing on different settlement currencies, with a view to limiting
their impact on the balance of payments.
17.       As regards the general business climate, the Tunisian authorities
are aware of the need for continued improvement in order to promote
investment, increase output and create new jobs.
In view of the impact of taxes on the environment for business, tF-
1983 Finance Law already introduced two major concessions:



ANNEX V
76             Pace 9 of 11
-    reduction in the corporation tax (proportional tax) from 46.5
percent to 44 percent for commercial activities, and from 40.5 percent to 38
percent for industrial, tourism and transportation activities;
-    deductibility of income tax on income derived from securities, for
the beneficiaries of such income.
Other changes have been introduced since then, affecting export
companies in particular, with profits derived from export operations now being
tax exempt.
For the years ahead, the Tunisian authorities are devoting their
full attention to ensuring the success of two major reforms:
-    introduction of a Value Added Tax on January 1, 1988;
-    simplification of direct taxation by introducing, during the period
covered by the Seventh Plan, a consolidated tax on individual and corporate
incomes.
D. Export Promotion
iB.       In order to speed up the adjustment process, the Tunisian
authorities have already made sustained efforts to eliminate the obstacles of
an administrative nature against exports of manufactured goods. This program
now having been largely completed, the authorities plan, in the course of
1987, to improve the services provided by the Customs Administration. In
concert with all the government departments involved in exports, measures will
be taken to gradually standardize working hours, combine services in a single
location, and integrate data processing operations, so that the exporter will
have to deal with only one office.
E. Institutional Changes
19.       The policy of promoting exports and private investment in
manufacturing industry, together with gradual deregulation of the economy,
will be accompanied by a transformation of the support infrastructure in the
manufacturing sector, including API-', AFI', CEPEX3', CNEI1' and the
various technical centers.
The purpose of these changes will be (i) to strengthen promotion and
support activities, particularly to firms in the private sector, (ii) to
reduce control and approval functions, and (iii) to encourage beneficiary
enterprises to assume responsibility for a greater proportion of the cost of
services received. The Tunisian authorities have decided to introduce the
following specific changes during the period 1987-88:
Ci)    The role of API has already changed and will cbange further with the
introduction of the new Investment Code early in 1987. To enable this agency
to play its promotional role to the full and to make maximum use of the many
1/-Industrial Investment Promotion Agency; 2/ Industrial Lend Agency;
3/ Export Promotion Center; A1 National Industrial Studies Center.



ANNEX V
Page 10 of 11
years of experience gained by CNEI, the authorities have agreed to merge API.
AFI and CNEI. The bulk of the combined agency's human and financial resources
will be assigned to the effort of promoting and assisting business
enterprises, more particularly through project identification and preparation
of sectoral studies.  In addition, in order to facilitate the granting of
incentives for eligible projects, API will continue to act as secretariat of
the Approvals Committee (Commission de l'Agrdment) responsible for
implementing the new Investment Code.  This Committee will be independent of
API's Board of Directors, the latter focussing exclusively on supervising and
guiding the agency's promotional activities.                                           ;
(ii)    The role of CEPEX will, for its part, be consolidated in order to
make its operations more effective and reduce its expenses incurred in foreign
exchange. To this end, the Tunisian authorities propose to merge the
promotional work currently undertaken by OCT1' into CEPEX and to study the
possibility of more closely integrating commercial attaches abroad into the
organization.
(iii)    The three existing technical centers which provide valued services
to private and public entrepreneurs will be reorganized. The measures being
considered in this regard involve providing interested enterprises with
enhanced representation on the Boards of these centers and have them gradually
assume a.higher share of the cost of the services provided by these centers.
Should need for assistance become evident in additional sectors not
yet covered by an existing technical center, the Government will consult with
the enterprises concerned regarding the possibility of assigning this new task
to one of the existing centers rather than increasing the number of such
centers.
(iv)    Lastly, the Chambers of Commerce will be reactivated as part of the
policy of encouraging the private sector to assume greater responsibility for
its own development, and the efforts of UTICAZ-  in assisting small and
medium-scale enterprises and promoting exporters will be strengthened.
F. Employment and Wage Policy
20.       The Tunisian authorities are pursuing two long-range goals in this
area closely linked to the adjustment program:
(1) Create the largest possible number of new jobs in manufacturing
industry; and
(2) Improve the competitive position of industry, more particularly of
export companies.
To this end, they plan to study ways of gradually reducing the
burden of social security contributions without undermining the financial
integrity of the social security system.  As a first step, attempts will be
made to reallocate contributions among the various funds.  In the longer term.9
1/   Tunisian Trading Office.
2/   Tunisian Association of Industry, Commerce and Handicrafts.



%w u~~~~~ )    ;           A-
-78-             AREX V
Page 11 of 11
the structure of benefits will be reviewed in order to ensure that a
reasonable balance exists between costs and payments. In the event that
resources prove inadequate, the authorities agree on the need to align
benefits on the resources expected to become available rather than adding to
the burden on employers. Any additional benefits (more particularly in the
area of health insurance) would have to be covered by voluntary schemes.
It is understood that, in cases where the Investment Code provides
incentives in the form of exemption from, or reductions in, contributions to
the social security funds, these exemptions will be financed out of the
government budget in auch a way as to avoid any shortfall in receipts to these
funds.
21.       In the same order of ideas, work is in progress, as part of the
drafting of the Seventh Plan, to review labor legislation to ensure that it is
sufficiertly adaptable and flexible to promote employment while keeping the
enterprise competitive.
The results of this work, expected to be available before the end of
June 1987, will be the subject of an exchange of views with the Bank.
22.       In addition, in order to curb domestic demand and promote
productivity, the Tunisian authorities plan to continue the policy of
deindexation of wages that has been in effect since 1983. To this end, any
wage increases will be tied to improvements in productivity and in the
financial situation of each enterprise.
In order to facilitate the practical implementation of this policy,
it would be useful to receive assistance in developing methods to measure
productivity within each enterprise. A request for such assistance is
currently being prepared.
G. Tourism
23.       Lastly, the Tunisian authorities plan shortly to undertake a
comprehensive study of tourism policies, in light of its importance for-
exports and job creation. It will identify inter alia the various obstacles
to expansion of the tourism sector and indicate what action is needed to
remedy the situation. The terms of reference of this study will be discussed
with the Bank in March 1987. It will be completed by the end of 1987 and its
conclusions discussed with the Bank.
H. Monitoring of Progress
24.       It goes without saying that the Tunisian authorities will carefully
monitor implementation of the progrmn set forth above; they will submit a
progress report to the Bank every six months.
0915S/26-36



,14 e  a'/ /  f  e  ,  r or  C7 e  ar 
--' /EBIlZERTE
Sea~~~~~~~r
3  ( 7*Gf fArsIAlai                                                                                                            37*A
BE )A h bEJA                                            nzal Temime
cl 7050,,     A h' (  aJE N D O U  -          BEU
Y*use LEKEF                                                    Hog tcmmomet
364~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
'X tf'  STIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OASI
0  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Es Sonarn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ad
<   \iSb,+    r.        A        >('<;,    t   MAHDI~~~~~~~~AHDI
K A S XR, I N E                           ilch          <E Dem              hebbo
-35- ~                                                      SII6       ZDinin                                                35LS\t h2
_3F !  r,..................... ) 51I BUZI * /eonino ......................SIDI....BOUZIDE.............F 5@
&   2t,  /  y                  K~~~~~~~~~~~~ir Ali b r fa K7 sgar    , SFAX     r
zJ  :  1^       -2               \        l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~an



Bhr All Bon Khol5fOi  Aoo 
?:!:    X                               -Wnl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,.1..'-
:   a e  ''-> / RdestMel:u
34*  T'O* / R. K- -, E,                                             S            $8 I  L
~ GhoxmrzsenO~4    %.  v[, oni- i>  4
)II~~~~~G..E 
r/L.       ,OTotoGr .                       ' d-
K ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~AAUN E   B0I  L
T U  N  I S I A                     2- l                       P  A rA ou i N.E    <           t   <M|
0  25    50    75~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- o
I  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dn
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTR UI1I*  
*   National Capital
*   Governorote Capitals          rthe map has been prepared by 
-   Paved Roads            ~~~~~~~~~~The Woed Bank's:saff exclusiv*'       . 
Paved   Roads                 for the converdence of the        0 <;- Z-hveTif;$--
readers ard is excjstvely ry bt0e  0Remada
Railways                      intemnal use of The World 8anik                    r
: .   4 Ports                      andCthabe  t ek a mnatl l F nc            .. S.:
;  +   Airports                    used and re boundauies SowJ.
0 i'a         -) Salt Lakes                      pa ArRIA                                                    LIBYA
Governorate Boundaries  ntemaffonapt Fouance CamorafWn..       32            j
i Governor lot  Bounrdaries    a  yfnet{nan udgment on the  lgQa st2 t u. i
c.W          - ^-  International Boundaries      of any te:mofy:any   ,
*u .bouent or accepdeee*  -of     "z       9         ,f   f-4         i _
_                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sveh tboundaries.                      '    
:  | 8'~~~~9                               9' 10'                                                   /NIGER     CHAD't;






