Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6769-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
LA PAZ MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 8, 1987
Urban Projects Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Ihis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its c'nmtents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALES
Currency Unit =  Boliviano ($B)
1 Boliviano   - US.50
US$1.00          2.00 Bolivianos
SDRI.00          US$1.286
US$1.00       V  SDR 0.777
FISCAL TEAM
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACCRONYN
BANVI          Housing Bank
CONAVI         National Housing Council
E.E.V.V.       Municipal Enterprise for Urban Services (Medellin)
GTZ            German Technical Cooperation Agency
MLP            Municipality of La Paz
IIAP           International Institute for Public Administration (Paris)
ICI            Iberoamerican Cooperation Institute (Madrid)
IMP            Investment and Modernization Program of La Paz Municipality
IVA            Value Added Tax
MUv            Ministry of Urbanism and Housing
NEP            New Economic Policy
PFM            Project Office



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
LA PAZ IMlICIPAL DEVEOPNT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AN) PROJECT SUNMARY *a.o.............,..........      iii
I.    THE URBO SECTOR ***       ****a******aO***4**@@   1
Recent Urbanization Pattern ........o...e.............,.... 1
Urban Sector Organization I...................... *  ..   1
Urban Development Issues ...........2...........              2
New Policy Measures                ................. a .      3
The City of La Paz  .     ......a...a.............    3
Bank Experience in the Sector  ............................   3
Sector Lending Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement ..  4
II.    PROJECT FORfUL&TION AND PRKPARATION ......... ..... o......... o  6
Project Origin                 ...................... .    .   6
The Municipality of La Paz aaaaaaaaaa,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa.    6
Objectives and Strategy                                       6
Project Description .... a a........... ....... ... a a...   7
Execution of the Project and the IMPaoaa0aaaaaaa*00*0*00aaaa   9
Procurement                                                  11
Disbursement                                                 11
Audit                                                        12
Costs and Financing Plan aaa.aaaa.aaaaaaa.a.aaa   12
Financial Impact .....aaaaaaaaaaaa. a  13
Cost Recovery                                                14
Benefits and Economic Analysis aaaaaaaoaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa   15
Environmental Impact .... a a a ...aa. a a 16
Poverty Impact                                               16
Risks  and  Safeguards  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa.  16
IIIo.SGRSEZDSTS REACHED AND RECONEEDATION a  .    -     .    -    17
LIST OF 
1.    Basic Infrastructure Deficit in the Project Area in La Paz
2.     Municipal Finances:  Recent Trends and Projections
3.     Municipal Organizational Chart
4.     The First Urban Development Project
5.     Investment and Modernization Program Indicators
6.     Detailed Project Description
7.     Indicative Procurement Distribution
8.     Disbursement Schedule
9.     Implementation Schedule
10.    Detailed Cost Estimates
11.   Project Financing Plan
12.    Economic and Sensitivity Analysis
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
nf their nffieil Adtitp,  It. enntAnte mow nnt ^th^rwvaA  ka  A;.-h --A ,;--A'-I Wr-  n_*-.*



BOLIVIA
LA PAZ MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiary         Municipality of La Paz
Amount:             SDR 11.7 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:              Payable in 35 years, including 10 years' grace in
semi-annual installments of 1-1/4% of the principal
amount from the eleventh year through the twentieth
year, and of 2-1/2% from the twenty-first year until
final maturity.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would onlend about 75% of the proceeds of
the credit, denominated in US dollars, to the
Municipality of La Paz at a fixed interest rate of
8-1/2% per annum. The amounts onlent would be repaid
in national currency at the official rate of exchange
on the payment date. Repayment would be made over 20
years, from the date of on-lending, with no grace
period. The other 25% of the credit proceeds (US$3.8
million equivalent) would be provided to the
Municipality as a grant. The French Government, the
German Technical Cooperation Agency, the Netherlands
Government, and the Spanish Government would cofinance
the project.
Project Objectives
and Description:   The proposed project, which would incorporate certain
components of the Municipal Investment and
Modernization Program (IMP), is designed to assist the
Municipality of La Paz in strengthening its
institutional capacity to discharge service,
administrative and fiscal functions while addressing
critical shortcomings in the city's infrastructure. It
would help in alleviating the impact of the current
economic adjustment process on the population of the
capital city by providing temporary employment
opportunities through public works needed to arrest the
deterioration of municipal services and urban
infrastructure. Other major objectives of the project
are: a) strengthening municipal financial and
investment planning; b) raising revenues through better
tax administration and updating the cadastre; c) a more
rational management of human resources and



- ii -
improvements in operations and maintenance. The
progress of the project would be the subject of an
exchange of views with IDA, and IDA would annually
review with the Municipality the pace of execution of
the IMP and monitor performance indicators. The
project would consist of: (a) low cost urban transport
improvements, including construction a.id equipping of a
maintenance workshop, primary streets rehabilitation,
and traffic control systems; (b) labor intensive urban
upgrading works in low income areas; (c) civil works to
prevent and control landslides; (d) civil works and
equipment to improve solid waste collection and
disposal, and sanitation works; (e) equipment needed to
modernize municipal administration, particularly the
cadastre; and (f) technical assistance for: (i)
administrative reorganization; (ii) development of a
personnel management system and training program; (iii)
improvement of financial management and planning; and
(iv) updating and modernizing the municipal cadastre.
Benefits:            The project would result in more efficient delivery of
urban services and better resource management, with a
positive fiscal and financial impact on the
Municipality. The improvement in the quality and level
of urban services and infrastructure maintenance would
benefit city residents, and particularly the urban
poor. Project works would also provide temporary
employment. Transport investments would strengthen the
functional efficiency of the city and reduce vehicle
operating costs, thereby saving scarce foreign
exchange. Also, by preventing and controlling
landslides, the project would reduce the loss of life,
and of publio and private property. Finally, the
project would establish a model for operations which
would be replicated in other cities of the country.
Risks and
Safeguards:         Given Bolivia's history, the main risk is political:
changes in government and mutnicipal administration,
strikes and social disruptions may lead to delays in,
or to partial achievement only, of the project's
objectives.  This risk has been addressed by
simplifying the project design. Also, institutional
reforms were put into effect before and during project
preparation to ensure the full commitment of the
Municipality to project objectives. Another risk is
the shortage of counterpart funds; therefore, the
project has been sized conservatively, No Government
contribution would be required and the Municipality
should be able to raise the funds needed for the
project through improved tax collection and more
efficient use of resources.



Ssmmary of Project Costs
(in USS thousands of June 1987)
Component                                      Local        Foreign           Total
A. Project Preparation Facility                1247            253             1500
B. Municipal Maniagement                       3596           1186             4782
Administrative Reorganization              540               0             540
Personnel Management and Training         1004              70            1075
Financial Systems                          522             345             867
Cadastre                                  1530             770            2300
C. Urban Transport                             3714           1346             5060
Infrastructure                            1640             553            2193
Traffic Management                        1722             461            2183
Equipment                                  351             332             684
D. Urban Development                          475-            2786             7538
Upgrading                                 1512             738            2250
Landslide Control                         2146             799            2945
River Basin Control                       886             591            1476
Drainage                                 1260            208             1469
Sanitation                                 644            1249            1893
Collection and Disposition                250            600              850
Street Cleaning                           180            257              437
Sanitary Control                          214             392             606
Community Education                        450               0             450
Total Base Cost                           13309            5571           18880
Physical Contingencies                     1237             518            1755
Price Escalation                            476             199             675
Subcotal Contingencies                     1713             717            2430
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        15022           6288            21310
Financing Plan                                            US$ million
IDA                                           11.7             3.3            15.0
MLP                                             3.3              0              3.3
GTZ                                               0            1.4              1.4
French Government (IIAP)                          0            0.6             0.6
Netherlands Government                            0            0.6             0.6
Spanish Government (ICI)                          0            0.4             0.4
15.0            6.3             21.3
Estimated Disbursements:
FY        1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Annual                         1.4   1.4   2.1   2.4   2.6   2.3   1.8   1.0
Cummulative                    1.4   2.8   4.9   7.3   9.9  12.2  14.0  15.0



I. THE URBAN SECTOR
Recent Urbanization Pattern
1.01      About 2.8 million of Bolivia's population (6e4 million in 1985)
live in urban centers. The recent pattern of urbanization in Bolivia has
developed as a function of historical factors, employment opportunities,
and the unusually difficult climatic and geographic conditions of the
Altiplano and Valles regions where nearly 80% of the population live.
Previous migration to the once flourishing mining centers has given way to
increasing flows of migrants from rural areas and from mining towns, such
as Oruro and Potosi, primarily to the three larger cities of La Paz (the
capital), Cochabamba and Santa Cruz.
1.02      The city of La Paz, with about 1.2 million inhabitants, is the
largest of the three main cities, and accounts for about 20% of Bolivia's
population. La Paz has grown tenfold in the past fifty years, and has
roughly doubled in size during the last decade. The city's population
growth of about 2.8% p.a. is not unusual by Latin American standards, but
represents a challenge because of its difficult physical environment and
its strained capacity to absorb more migrants in a productive manner.
Cochabamba and Santa Crus, which have together about half of La Paz's
population, are faced with much less complex development issues. Both
these cities serve as commercial oenters for well endowed agricultural
regions and have a potential for further growth.
Urban Sector Organization
1 .03     Administration of the urban sector in Bolivia is conducted at the
Central, Regional and Local levels, with responsibilitles often
overlapping, and important areas such as urban planning and infrastructure
maintenance rematining practically unattended. The Ministry of Urbanism and
Housing (MUV) is formally responsible for the definition of general goals
and objectives in the urban sector, while the Ministry of Planning and
Coordination controls the development of sectoral plans and programs.
MNU's activity has been concentrated mainly in housing, through the
coordination of a large number of local trade councils which provide
housing for their workers, but it has not developed a strategy or provided
effective leadership in the housing sector. There are nine Regional
Corporations (originally public works committees) that promote economic
activities in their respective Departments, but they do not have specific
urban development functions. However, in three Departments where mineral
and gas extraction provide revenues and where the urban economy is more
developed (Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca and Tarija), the Regional Corporations
have been active in planning, executing and maintaining major urban
infrastructure, thereby offsetting the chronic weakness of municipal
governments.
1.04      Bolivia has a total of 252 municipalities which are legally
autonomous and have a wide range of responsibilities including planning,
provision of infrastructure, administration of cadastres, construction and
administration of markets and storage facilities, control of hygiene,



preservation of the environment, and promotion of cultural and touristic
activities. Most municipal governments (except those of the three larger
cities) lack the capacity to carry out these responsibilities, and, in the
absence of support from MUV, often request technical and legal assistance
from La Paz. The Municipality of La Paz therefore provides technical
assi'tance to the other municipalities, and assumes, de facto, the
normative role of MUV in the country.
Urban Development Issues
1.05      Some critical urban development issues are evident in the larger
cities, as a result of the inadequate economic policies and political
instability which prevailed in the country between 1980 and 1985. In La
Paz, the main issues are:
a)  Deficient infrastructure and services:  The lack of maintenance
of the street and drainage network and erosion control system
between 1982 and 1985 resulted in rapid erosion, and extensive
and destructive landslides, because of the difficult topography
of La Paz and the inclement weather. Urban services worsened,
especially those related to sanitation, the registration and
titling of property, and public transport (Annex 1). The public
bus company was operating in 1986 at a third of its capacity
offering limited and inadequate service. Virtually no new
investments were made after 1982, except for upgrading works
carried out by community participa';ion: investments dropped from
an average of over US$20 equivalent per capita during the second
half of the 1970s to about US$3.5 thereafter (less than one
dollar in 1984). As a result there are today in La Paz about
150,000 more persons not served with basic infrastructure than a
decade ago.  Finally, lack of planning and programming preventtA
the identification of investment projects;
b)   Poor financial condition:  Although the Municipality was able to
maintain its revenues during some years of high inflation,
dramatic deficits on current account occurred after 1982. By
1984, the deficit had reached 50% of total expenditures, own
source revenues had contracted to one fourth the 1981 level in
real terms, and personnel costs exceeded total municipal
receipts. To partially conver these deficits, the Municipality,
which had depended in the past primarily on its own resources,
iicreasingly relied on Central Government transfers and on
borrowings (45% of total receipts in 1984) (Annex 2, Table 1);
c)   Weak administration:  Municipal administration deteriorated
between 1980 and 1985, particularly in the area of personnel
policy and management which adversely affected efficiency and
service capacity of the Municipality. The rumber of municipal
employees swelled by 33% without corresponding productivity
increase or improvement in the quality of services. On the other
hand, municipal real wages dropped from an already log level,
causing the loss of experienced and qualified employees; and



-3-
New Policy Measures
1.06      The new Gcvernmernt, which took office in August 1985, adopted a
stabilization and economic adjustment program as part of its New Economic
Poliey (NEP). The policy changes and reforms included in this program have
already helped to improve the efficiency of the urban sector and the
measures noted below should provide the necessary framework for
development:
(a) Tighter control over public sector revenues and expenditures has
had a positive impact on municipal finance; it also brought about
a reduction in the national fiscal deficit. In La Paz it led to
the generation of a surplus in the current account.
Discretionary transfers to municipalities from Central Government
have been banned;
(b) Revision of the structure of public sector salaries has permitted
improved control of recurrent expenditure and increased staff
efficiency. In particular, a ceiling has been set on payroll
expenditures of public sector entities; this should have a
positive impact on municipalities;
(c) Reform of the tax system adopted by Congress in May 1986 is
expected to have a positive impact on municipal budgets and
particularly that of La Paz because half of national taxes are
generated in its jurisdiction. The reform would replace the
municipal business tax and some other local revenues through
sharing in the national value added tax and custom duties.
Although the reform is not yet fully implemented and some
uncertainty remains about the ultimate yield of the major taxes,
it would provide an adequate framework for the strengthening of
municipal finances (Annex 2);
(d) The Municipal Law of January 10, 1985, defining the technical and
financial responsibilities of local governments, was amended
during project preparation to expand the responsibilities of La
Paz by including traffic management, public transport regulation,
and administration of cadastre. This should help enhance the
role of La Paz and rationalize the use of municipal resources;
(e) Biannual elections of Mayors and Municipal Councils should
improvs accountability of local governments, particularly the
larger ones.
The City of La Paz
1.07      Located in the western slope of the Andean mountains at an
altitude ranging between 3,500 and 4,000 meters, the city of La Paz
provides a most difficult environment for human settlement because of its
harsh climatic conditions and unusually difficult topography. The city
itself, including most of its residential areas, business district and
Government offices, is located in a valley surrounded by steep slopes that
fall off the eastern edge of the Altiplano plateau. Most of the slopes
consist of extremely unstable soil which, when saturated by the water



- 4 -
carried by more than 200 rivers and streams that crisscross the city,
erodes and causes mud flows and landslides. About half of the valley
slopes represent areas where development should be forbidden or strictly
controlled. However, the city has been unable to enforce any land use
regulation. Lower income rsighborhoods which house about half of the
city's population have developed rapidly on these slopes, and the lack of
an adequate storm water drainage system further endangers their stability
(Annex 1). Some resources have been allocated by the Municipality to
control and prevent erosion and landslides, but further efforts and
resources are required. Also, lack of services and difficult access have
worsened the living conditions of the urban poor whose commuting time to
the city center often exceeds five hours.
1.08      The physical and economic development pattern of La Paz is
strongly influenced by the rural tradition of a large number of its
dwellers who maintain strong links with their villages of origin. This
situation is prevalent among almost 90% of the population of El Alto and
more than half of the settlers on the slopes, who are recent migrants
mostly originating from the Altiplano. The distinctive cultural
characteristics of this population represent a substantial positive asset
for the city's development, because of their participatory approach to
community development. However, unless the Municipality pays adequate
attention to these positive attributes by tailoring community education
and seeking community participation in areas such as land use regulation,
environmental management, etc., uncontrolled development in unsuitable
areas will continue, causing deforestation and serious soil management
problems.
Bank Experience in the Sector
1.09      The First Urban Development Project (Loan 1489-BO) was
successfully completed in June 1986, despite the extraordinarily difficult
political, financial and economic circumstances which prevailed during its
execution. The project benefitted directly over 30,000 families, through
upgrading of low income neighborhoods, new sites and services schemes,
home improvement loans, local markets, a primary health facility and
a credit program for small scale enterprises. The outstanding feature of
the project was to utilize local tradition of community participation in
the implementation of the upgrading and credit components, and to achieve
full cost recovery. A special implementation unit created for the project
has acquired some administrative and planning capacity and earned a
noteworthy credibility with the population of the low income neighborhoods
(Annex 4).
Sector Lending Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.10      IDA's lending strategy in the urban secto- in Bolivia is to
consolidate the Government's economic adjustment effort in La Paz, by
supporting its development objectives, and strengthening municipal
management and the provision of urban services. IDA support is focussed on
the Municipality of La Paz because of the prominent role of the city in the
sector, its stronger technical capacity relative to other local
governments, and because its population has been greatly affected by the
economic adjustment measures undertaken by the Government. Also, La Paz
could set an example to be followed by other cities. In this respect, the



project seeks to support decentralization of investment decisions in the
capital city where identification and prioritization of works would  be
done more effioiently, thereby enhancing existing institutional capacity
without the need for a Government contribution. Future urban sector
support would consist of development assistance to the rapidly growing
market towns.



-6-
II. PROJECT FORMJLATION AND PREPARATION
Project Origin
2.01      The positive experience of the First Urban Development Project
(Loan 1489-BO) led to the identification of a possible second urban prrjeot
as early ati 1982. The project concept was revived and transformed through
dialogue with the Government in the conteyt of its stabilization and
economic adjustment program. Project identification was carried out by a
mission which visited La Paz in April, 1986. A Project Preparation
Facility advance (PPF) amounting to US$500,000 was approved as a result of
a follow-up mission in August 1986, and has been disbursed on schedule; it
was subsequently increased by U2$i1,000,000 in June 1987 to finance
completion of project preparation.
The Municipality of La Paz
2.02      The Municipal Government, which took office in 1985, has begun to
transform the Municipality into a more efficient, financially viable and
equiitable provider of urban services. In line with Central Government
polioy, the Municipality has taken measures to adjust its administrative
structure and recover financial autonomy. The organization of the
Municipality, with a staff exceeding 5,200 in 1985, was characterized by
excessive layering, overlapping responsibilities, lack of accountability
and i technical support to the Mayor, and deficient planning and
administrative procedures.   During 1986, the number of employees was
reduced by over 1,500, wages were raised, and a reorganization of the
Municipality was initiated, which included streamlining procedures,
enhancing the planning function, and rationalizing services and other
operational activities (Annex 3). Policies and operational objectives and
procedures for each functional area were establ shed, computerization was
initiated, the personnel management system overhauled and systematic staff
training instituted. Financial management was strengthened by setting up
monitoring and control system, leading to the reduction of recurrent
expenditures by 26% in real terms and the increase of current revenues by
70% (Annex 2). Coordination between the fiuancial and technical
directorates improved investment planning and budgetary control.
2.03      Thix technical capacity of the Municipality, weakened by lack of
qualified staff and absence of adequate operational procedures, has been
strengthened during the preparation of the proposed project, which also
helped develop a comprehensive Investment and Modernization Program (IMP)
for the Municipality. Furthermore, the core staff of highly qualified
professionals on the project preparation team would be largely absorbed
into the new municipal structure and salary scale by the end of 1988, as
part of a personnel strengthening program (para. 2.07).
Objectives and Strategy
2.04      The proposed project is designed to support the above mentioned
efforts of the Munici-pality of La Paz in strengthening its institutional
capacity to fulfill its service and administrative functions and to



- 7 -
discharge its new finanUial and fiscal responsibilities while addressing
critical shortcomings in the city's infrastructure. It also builds upon
the achievements of Loan 1489-BO. The project would seek to promote the
recovery of historical adequate levels of annual municipal investment and
to arrest the deterioration of the basic municipal services and urban
infrastructure. This entails improving administrative procedures,
personnel policies, financial management, and planning and programming
capabilities, and the management of the physical assets. The project would
also help alleviate the social impact of the current economic adjustment
process in the capital city, by providing temporary employment
opportunities through public works,
2.05      The proposed credit would help finance the priority elements of
the five-year Investment and Modernization Program (IMP) of La Paz
Municipality. The IMP has been formulated on the basis of the progress of
the Municipality's financial recovery, the institutional reforms undertaken
during 1986, and the projected municipal fiscal and managerial capacity.
Its execution would be reviewed annually by IDA; key performance irdicators
have been developed for the purpose of assessing progress (para. 2.08 and
Annex 5).
Project Description
2.06      The proposed project would include the following components:
(a) municipal management; (b) urban transport; and (c) urban development,
including specific actions in: (i) urban upgrading in marginal areas;
(ii) civil works to control landslides; (iii) solid waste management; and
(iv) community education. (Annex 6 provides further details). These
components are further described below:
(a) Munieipal Management Improvement.
(i) Administrative Reorganization Program (US$0.6 million).
Reducing and consolidating functions to increase efficiency
of municipal operations in planning and provision of
services, while further reducing municipal staff from 3,500
to 2,500 employees by the end of 1992. Privatization of
several services to the extent possible. Computerization of
records and accounts. Greater responsiveness and improved
service levels to the public. IDA would provide technical
assistance, and project data management and office equipment
for this component, which would be further assisted by the
Spanish Government through parallel cofinancing;
(ii) Personnel Management System and Training Program (US$1.2
million). Implementing a new and strengthened personnel
management system and instituting in-house training
capacity. Particular attention would be given to: sanitation
and handling of emergencies; improved property and vehicle
registration; community participation; financial management;
urban land use planning; infrastructure programming;
municipal regulations; operation and maintenance of services;
and public relations. The credit would finance technical
assistance and related equipment, and would be complemented



-8-
by assistance from the French Government through parallel
cofinancing. It would also finance incremental salary costs
of key municipal staff in accordance with the implementation
of the new salary structure (para. 2.08); funds would be
disbursed on a lump sum basis at the end of 1987 and of 1988
conditioned on the progress of the IMP (see Annex 5);
(iii) Financial Management Improvement Program (US$0.9 million).
Implementation of computerized accounting systems to improve:
budgeting; financial and investment planning; and management
4nformation and control, including setting up cost and
revenue centers for services and direct user charges. The
project would provide technical assistance, equipment and
training of municipal staff, complemented by assistance from
the French Government through parallel cofinancing;
(iv) Multipurpose Cadastre (US$2.6 million).  Updating and
maintaining current municipal cadastre to increase revenues
from property taxes, and improve development planning and
management of urban services. This would involve: updating
and improving the registration of urban property, revising
assessment procedures and adjusting the tax rate, and
implementing a rigorous billing and collection system. The
project would provide professional services to update aerial
photography and produce maps, equipment for recording and
maintenance of cadastral data, and related training of
staff. Technical assistance by the Netherlands Government
would support this component.
(b) Urban Transport (US$5.9 million).  Rehabilitation of main
thoroughfares, improvements to the street network, traffic
lights, design and enforcement of traffic and parking systems,
and construction of bus terminals. Also, cstablishment of a
maintenance system for municipal equipment, including provision
of maintenance facilities, equipment and spare parts. The
project would provide professional services, civil works, and
equipment and spare parts.
(c) Urban Development and Infrastructure Improvement.
(i) Urban Upgrading in Marginal Areas (US$2.6 million). The
project would provide basic infrastructure in about nineteen
selected neighborhoods (with an average of about 3,100
households) implemented with community participation,
including water, drainage, and pedestrian walkways. The
project would include technical services, construction
materials and equipment for carrying out the works.
(ii) Civil Works to Control Landslides (US$3.4 million). Flood
and erosion control works along drainage basins, including
landslide prevention works, land use regulations and
procedures to prevent irregular settlement, and an early
warning system and emergency assistance for victims.



9-
The project would provide technical services, special
equipment and civil works, and would be complemented by
assistance from the German Technical Cooperation Agency (GTZ)
through parallel cofinancing.
(iii)  Solid Waste Management (US$2.2 million).  Design and
implementation of: garbage collect.on and disposal system;
street cleaning system; and a laboratory of bromatology and
sanitation control. Part of the solid waste and management
system would be decentralized and privatized. Also, included
would be the repair and maintenance of trash collection and
compaction vehicles, including provision of spare parts. IDA
would provide professional services, technical assistance for
staff training, equipment and spare parts, and civil works.
It would also finance the costs of a technical twinning
arrangement with the Municipal Enterprise for Urban Services
of Medellin (E.E.V.V.) to ensure transfer of experience from
a successful company working in a comparable environment.
(iv) Community Education (US$0.5 million). A pilot community
education program covering urban services, civic duties and
responsibilities, and community participation, through use of
radio campaigns, to dupport each major municipal action and
civil works program under the project. Also an experimental
curriculum would be introduced in five pilot elementary
schools on community education. The project would provide
professional services, equipment and materials.
Execution of the Project and the IMP
2.07      The Municipality of La Paz would be responsible for project
implementation. Its newly created Planning Office would be responsible for
overall coordination and monitoring of progress and for liaison with IDA
(Annex 3).  The Director of Planning would have direct aocess to the Mayor;
the Planning Office would serve as an advisory body to the Mayor and also
provide technical assistance to the Municipality of El Alto (with which a
coordination and cooperation agreement would be signed) and to other
municipalities in Bolivia. The key local staff of the project preparation
unit would be absorbed either by the various municipal directorates in
charge of projeot implementation or by the Planning Office. All works
would be contracted to private construction firms, except for routine
maintenance, some specialized drainage control works and emergency
interventions (Annex 7).
2.08      The progress of the IMP would be reviewed annually (para. 3.01a)
using performance indicators and targets acceptable to IDA (Annex 5). The
salient elements of the IMP are presented below:
(is The institutional reorganization program would be consistent with
efficiency objectives and available resources, and would include
streamlining the organizational structure; in particular it would
include decentralizing a series of activities, for which the
Municipality has no comparative advantage, and creating



- 10 -
autonomous enterprises (garbage disposal and public hygiene, pipe
factory, slaughterhouse, and bus company), and whenever
justified, contracting out certain works to private enterp-.ises.
(ii) The new personnel management system would consist of matching job
requirements with the human resources in each of the newly
defined functional units including establishment of an
appropriate salary structure. A reduction in the number of staff
of certain units is envisaged while other activities would be
strengthened. Overall, it is expected that municipal staff would
be further reduced by from 3,500 to about 3,200 by the end of
1988 and gradually to about 2,500 by the end of 1992. Staff
produotivity and efficiency would be monitored in all service
areas. Salaries, to be complemented for key staff through
project financing, would be reflected in the new salary structure
to ensure reasonable competitiveness of the Municipality in the
national labor market. Overall expenditures for salaries are not
expected to increase by more than 20% in real terms and would
remain well within the legally authorized limits of 50% of
municipal revenues. The Municipality would exchange views with
IDA on the implementation and application of its personnel
policy, including management and compensation systems. The
Project Coordinator heading the municipal Project Office would
have to be acceptable to IDA and prior to any replacement of a
Project Specialist, IDA would be provided with the curriculum
vitae of the prospective auccessor (para. 3.Olc);
(iii)  The Municipal Training Institute, governed by representatives of
the various municipal departments, which is being established,
would receive technical assistance financed by the French
Government from the International Institute for Public
Administration (IIAP) (para. 3.02g);
(iv) Municipal administrative procedures would be improved and
staffing strengthened in coordination with the Munici, l Training
Institute, through technical assistance from the Iberoamerican
Cooperation Institute (ICI) financed by the Spanish Government
(para. 3.02g);
(v) The improvement of financial and fiscal management would be
achieved through training and technical assistance for accounting
procedures, management of municipal assets, financial planning
and programming. Updating and maintaining current the cadastre
would result in a higher ratio of current revenues to current
expenditures and a better debt service ratio; and
(vi) Physical investments would be carried out using streamlined
bidding procedures, and force account would be used only for a
minimum of infrastructure maintenance and landslide prevention
works.
2.09      A technical twinning arrangement would be formalized between the
City of La Paz and the Municipal Enterprise for Urban Services of Medellin,
Colombia (E.E.V.V.). E.E.V.V., specializing in particular in the



collection and disposition of garbage, has acquired over more than twenty
years a successful experience of providing efficient and self financing
urban service in a topographic situation comparable to that of La Paz. It
would not only provide technical assistance to La Paz but also provide
on-the-job training through visits of key Bolivian personnel to Medellin,
in accordance with an agreed training program. This technical twinning
arrangement would be critical not only for the technical assistance aspects
of initiating and implementing a comprehensive solid waste managemenx
system in La Paz, but it would also provide guidance for the creation of a
similar enterprise.
Procurement
2.10      Contracts for the procurement of civil works estimated to cost
US$250,000 or more, and for the purchase of goods costing US$100,000 or
more would be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits. Prequalification would be used for line works contracts estimated
to cost more than US$1 million. Contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than US$100,000 each, would be awarded to suppliers on
the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three suppliers
eligible under the guidelines. Contracts for goods for which there is a
sole source of supply, or that are proprietary goods, may be purchased by
direct contracting with ths supplier or manufacturer, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. Civil works of less than US$250,000 would be
procured, because of their small size, through local competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. Small and
scattered works such as specialized sewer works and minor infrastructure
upgrading which would involve a large number of very low value works, not
exceeding US$1.0 million, in the aggregate may be executed by force account
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Technical assistance and
consultant services would be procured in accordance with IDA's Guidelines.
The indicative procurement distribution schedule is provided in Annex 7.
Prior IDA review and approval would be required for all procurement
documents and contracts for a) goods over US$100,000, and b) all civil
works invited on ICB basis, plus the first two LCB and local shopping
contracts for each project component. All other procurement would be
reviewed ex-post on a sample basis. The Municipality will prepare, issue
and put into effect a Procurement Manual, satisfactory to IDA, to be
followed in the procurement of works, goods and services for the proposed
project (para. 3.02a).
Disbursement
2.11      A Special Account would be established in US dollars with an
initial deposit of US$0.9 million equal to four months of estimated
disbursements (Annex 8). A Project Account in national currency would be
established by the Municipality (para. 3.O1d).
2.12      IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditures
for goods and works whose contract value would be less than US$100,000. No
disbursements would be made against works carried out by for¢e account,
All other disbursements would be made against standard documentation. The
Municipality of La Paz would retain documentation for expenditures and make



- 12 -
it available for purpose of audits and review by IDA during supervision.
Disbursements would be made for 100% of foreign expenditures and 78% of
local expenditures for civil works, goods and technical assistance.
Retroactive financing not exceeding the equivalent of SDR1.17 million would
be permitted for expenditures made after February 20, 1987 primarily for
technical assistance and engineering.
2.13      The disbursement schedule follows the regional profile of 9
years for the urban sector, and cost and benefits have been calculated
accordingly (Annex 9). It is likely, however, that the project would be
executed more rapidly and the Municipality has agreed to provide budgetary
allocations over a five year period. A shorter execution period would
increase the benefits of the project.
Audit
2.14      The Municipality would have the Project Account and the
statements of expenditures audited by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. The auditors would also review the record of the Municipality in
taking measures to improve revenue generation and internal budgetary
control. The auditors' reports would be furnished to IDA no later than six
months after the close of each financial year. The Borrower would have the
Special Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
(para. 3.Ole).
Costs and Financing Plan
2.15      The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$21.3
million equivalent, based on June 1987 prices, excluding taxes or duties.
Where applicable, physical contingencies varying from 3 to 21% have been
included depending on the type of project component. Price contingencies
have been calculated based on the forecast international price trends for
manufactured goods and civil works: for 1987, 3%; for 1988-1990, 1%; fo~r
1991 and thereafter, 3.5%. The proportion of foreign costs varies from 50%
to 70% of total costs for equipment and from 15% to 40% for civil works,
reflecting the use of appropriate technology and community participation to
maximize local employment impact. Overall, the foreign costs rep'esent
nearly 30% of project cost (Annex 10).
2.16      The IDA credit of SDR11.7 million (US$15 million equivalent)
would finance 70% of the project cost, parallel cofinancing would cover
14%, and the Municipality would provide 16%. The IDA credit would cover
52% of foreign costs and 78% of local costs. The credit would be made to
the Republic uf Bolivia. About 75% of the proceeds of the credit,
denominated in US dollars, would be on-lent to the Municipality at the
fixed interest rate of 8-1/2% per annum, and repaid to the Government in
national currency, at the official rate of exchange on the date of
payment. Repayment would be over 20 years from the date of on-lending with
no grace period (para. 3.Olf). The other 25% of the credit proceeds,
representing the cost of technical assistance (for training, administrative
restructuring, and institutional improvements) not financed from other
sources, would be provided as a grant to the Municipality. The conclusion
of a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to IDA, between the Borrower and the



.13 -
Municipality, reflecting these arrangements, is a condition to the
effectiveness of the IDA credit (para. 3.02 c).
Finanilng Plar
Sonres of Fnds                   Finnqn!Mg Cnditions to MLP
Parallel           MLP      Loan to  Grant to
Conterpt  Credit .C3dal   Total  Counterprt    MLP          MDU
MEP                  3.3                          3.3     3.3
IDA                            15.0              15.0               11.2       3.8
GZ                                       1.4      1.4                          1.4
Frerh Govemnnt (hAP)                    0.6       0.6                         0.6
Spen4ih Govwmebt (ICI)                   0.4      0.4                          0.4
Netherlands Govemnint                   0.6       0.6                          O.6
Tot1                 3.3       15.0      3,0     21.3     3.3        11.2      6.8
%g                   16        70        14      1OO      16         52        32
2.17      Parallel cofinancing arrangements for an amount of about US$3.0
million equivalent for technical assistance (the preparation of which was
fully integrated and detailed terms of reference agreed upon) have been, or
are being, formalized. GTZ would provide about 120 person-months of
advisory help to tho Municipality in river and landslide control during the
first two years of the project. The Spanish Government would finance over
65 person-months of technical assistance in municipal administration. The
French Government would finance 48 person-months and related equipment for
technical assistance in personnel administration and training through the
hIAP. The Netherlands Government would finance technical assistance for
the modernization of the municipal cadaster. The technical assistance
trograms would include coordinated medium-term assistance combined with
short-term senior advisors' support on specific themes (Annex 11 and para.
3.Olg).
Financial Impact
2.18      The proposed project would support the financial recovery program
initiated by the Municipality in 1986.  From 1978 to 1985, annual municipal
investment fell from an average of over US$16 million equivalent to
US$300,000, owing primarily to a real per capita decline in revenues of
over 80% and an increase in personnel costs to 73% of total expenditures in
1985. At the beginning of 1986, the municipal administration confronted an
accumulated deficit of US$4 million equivalent, resulting partially from a
current account deficit of US$1.6 million in the previout year and
outstanding debt of US$32 million with arrears. By the end of 1986, the
Municipality had achieved, through substantial increases in own-source
revenues and sharp cuts in personnel costs, a US$7 million surplus on
current account, a five-fold increase in investments, and a US$1.5 million
surplus carried over to 1987. It also was able to renegotiate its
outstanding debt.



- 14 -
2.19      Incremental revenues generated through the project would be
sufficient to produce a positive cumulative project cash flow by 1990.
Over the repayment period of IDA funds by the Municipality to the
Government, the project would yield a financial internal rate of return of
15% (Annex 2). This relatively high retarn would result from direct
recovery of free investment cost from beneficiaries and from the
substantial increases in the municipal property and vehicle taxes, expected
to result from the municipal administration component (para. 2.21). The
Municipality would be able to service its existing outstanding debt, repay
to the Government the proceeds of the IDA Credit, improve maintenance of
its existing infrastructure, operate and maintain the proposed
investments, as well as complete over 1987-88 the US$4.8 million investment
program initiated by the beginning of 1987 outside the project. In
addition to the implementation of the proposed project, the Municipality
would have significant surpluses after 1989 available for additional
investments, permitting total annual investments of up to US$9 million.
Although this level of investment would be a dramatic improvement over the
recent past, it would be substantially below the US$15.7 million annual
investment average over the 1976-79 period, which can be considered an
adequate investment level.
2.20      The project's financial impact was estimated using conservative
assumptions regarding the final implementation arrangements and efficiency
of the national fiscal reform. This reform includes the elimination of
some municipal revenues, substituted with, and complemented Dy, a revenue
sharing system primarily linked to the national Value Added Tax. The
Municipality's effective participation in this new system was assumed, for
purposes of project analysis, to represent no substantial increase on the
former mumicipal business tax revenues, or 40% of the revenue sharing
estimates provided by the Ministry of Economy. Should the revenue sharing
system yield more revenues than estimated here, the Municipality would be
able to implement the proposed project faster than expected and would be in
a position to resume annual investment levels attained during the 1976/79
period. A further discussion of the Municipality's past trends, the
national fiscal reform and the impact of the proposed project on municipal
finances are presented in Annex 2.
Cost Recovery
2.21      Full cost recovery for the project would be achieved for all
components through direct payment by beneficiaries or through improvement
in general revenues. Overall, 66% of capital expenditure under the project
would be recovered directly from solid waste collection, licensing fees,
betterment levies, and parking fees and fines over 1989/96. For example,
costs for upgrading in marginal areas would be fully recovered directly
from beneficiaries, according to the procedures successfully developed
during the First Urban Project. Municipal administrative services
improvement, street maintenance and upgrading, civil works to control
landslides, and community education, would be funded through enhancement of
general revenues; the efficiency gains and increased revenues from updating
the multipurpose cadastre would compensate for all other expenditures
incurred (see Annex 2). The municipal sanitation unit, the municipal
transport enterprise, and other services of the Municipality would be



- 15 -
managed as specific functional units, with the cost of service linked to
the respective revenues generated, following new accounting and budgeting
procedures. Realistic targets would ensure the self-sufficiency of the
units, some of which would become independent enterprises.
Cost Recovery
From Beneficiaries    Through municipal taxes
Component            Instrument      % Recovered          % Recovered
A. PPF                                                              100
B.  Municipal                                   -                   100
Management
C.  Urban Transport       Parking fees         30                    70
and fines
D.  Urban Development
1. Upgrading            Betterment        100                    -
levy
2. Landslide Control        -                                  100
3. Sanitation             Fees            100
4. Community Education      -                                  100
30                   70
Benefits and Economic Analysis
2.22      A broad range of benefits would accrue from the project.  Through
improved management and revenue administration, the project would enhance
overall municipal government efficiency. It would help alleviate the
unemployment conditions in the capital city by generating 30,000 man-years
.quivalent of temporary jobs in project works.  The transport component
would strengthen the functional efficiency of the city and reduce vehicle
operating costs, thereby saving scarce fcreign exchange for importation of
spare parts and fuel. Also, it would help reduce by more than one hour the
current daily commuting time for about 95,000 daily passengers between El
Alto and the city center. Improvements in the quality and level of urban
services and of maintenance of infrastructure would bear positive benefits
to the city residents, and particularly to the urban poor. About 60,000
people in marginal areas would directly benefit from the project with water
and/or sewerage. Sanitary conditions would also be improved by enforcing
laws on public hygiene and pollution. Project works for prevention and
control of landslides would reduce the risk of loss of life and property,
and yield substantial savings on the cost of rehabilitating public and
private assets. Finally, the project would establish a model for municipal
operations which could be replicated in other cities of the country.
2.23      The economic rate of return on the project is 32%.  It is the
weighted average IERR of all project components (100% of project costs).
No benefits have been computed for community education, but its cost has
been included when calculating the solid waste IERR. Costs of project



- 16 -
preparation and final designs have been apportioned to the corresponding
project components. Should a 20% cost overrun occur during project
executioL, the project economic return would be reduced to 21%. Should all
project components yield benefits 20% lower than expected, the project's
economic return would be reduced to 20%; however, the quantifiable benefits
included in the calculation are measured very conservatively. Benefits and
costs, excluding taxes and transfers, are expressed in constant June 1987
prices. The foreign exchanga component is shadow priced at 1.2. Wage oost
of unskilled manpower is shadow priced to reflect the value of the
compensation distributed in "food-for-work programs" (US$45 equivalent per
m,nth). The economic analysis of each component and the detailed
assumptions are presented in Annex 12.
Environmental Impact
2.24      The project would have a positive impact on various aspects of La
Paz environment. It would contribute to the monitoring and control of
human settlement and deforestation particularly in the areas located on
steep slopes and not suitable for urbanization* It would reduce natural
risks related to geotectonic and hydrological conditions by supporting a
comprehensive landslide and flood prevention program and the creation of an
adequate capacity to deal with emergencies (which averaged 76 occurrences
per year during the last ten years). Also, erosion would be diminished by
the improvement of drainage, and the construction of a sewer in El Alto and
on the slopes. Finally, the project would support the reduction of
pollution through the enforcement of municipal laws on industrial waste,
improvement of solid waste collection and disposal, and street cleaning.
The project would ensure the appropriate incremental disposition of no less
than 100 tons of garbage daily.
Poverty Impact
2.25      About 12% of total project cost would be for urban upgrading in
marginal areas where average monthly income is US$64, and varies between
neighborhoods from US$57 to US$71. This average income corresponds to the
estimated US$64 threshhold of absolute poverty and is below the current
relative poverty threshhold of US$95 per family per month. The other
project components would benefit principally the population of the slopes
and El Alto, whera the poor live, although they would not be targetted
exclusively towards them. Given the above, the proportion of total project
expenditure that would benefit the poor is conservatively estimated at 50%.
Risks and Safeguards
2.26      Given Bolivia's history, the main project risk is political:
changes in Government and municipal administration, strikes and social
disruptions may lead to delays or only partial achievement of the project's
objectives. This risk has been addressed by simplifying the project
design. Also, major institutional reforms have been implemented during
project preparation to ensure the full commitment of the Municipality to
project cbjectives. Another risk is the shortage of counterpart funds;
consequently, the project has been sized conservatively. No Government
contribution would be required and the Municipality should be able to raise
the funds needed for the project through fiscal and financial improvements
a I"- AZA --'     -.-A   -    --- -     



- 17 -
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.01      At negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) the progress of execution of the Municipality's Investment and
Modernization Program would be reviewed with IDA annually
(para. 2.08);
(b) an institutional reorganization program and schedule consistent
with efficiency objectives, available resources, decentralization
of functions and contracting out of the work (para. 2.08 (i));
(c) appointment of a Project Coordinator would not be made, unless
IDA approved of his qualifications, and curriculum vitae of
managerial and technical specialists (Projects Specialists) would
be submitted to IDA prior to any proposed appointment or
replacement (para. 2.08(ii));
(d) Establishment of a Special Account and of a Project Account
(para. 2.11);
(e) audit procedures acceptable to IDA (para. 2.14);
(f) the terms and conditions of a Subsidiary Agreement between the
Government and the Municipality, under which the credit proceeds
would be on-lent to the Municipality (para. 2.16);
(g)  cofinancing arrangements would shortly be finalized with the
French, Spanish and Netherlands Governments (paras. 2.06, 2.08
and 2.17); and
(h) annual review with IDA, during the execution of the proposed
project, of revenue sharing provisions of the National Tax Reform
(para. 2.20)
3.02      The following conditions would have to be met before the credit
is declared effective:
(a) the Municipality has prepared, issued and put into effect a
Procurement Manual, satisfactory to IDA and consistent with Bank
and IDA Procurement Guidelines (para. 2.10);
(b) the Municipality has established a Project Account and deposited
in it at least US$125,000 equivalent (para. 2.11); and
(c) a Subsidiary Agreement providing, inter alia, for the on-lending
of the credit proceeds, has been concluded between the Government
and the Municipality (para. 2.16).
3.03      Subject to the above conditions and agreements, the project would
be suitable for an IDA credit cf SDR11.7 million (US$15 million equivalent)
to the Republic of Bolivia.



BOLIVIA
LA PAZ MUICIPAL DEVELOPWENT PROJECT
Basic Infrastructure Deficit In the Pro.ject Area In La Paz
1986                1986            1986             1986                   1986
Areas of                                                                  % of population   I of populatton   I of street         I area not         i of pooulatlon
Project                              Area             1986 population     with no access       not serviced    surface not         served by          with no access
Uporadinq                         (ha)      %           (OOOs)      I           to water           by sewer     paved/cobbled  rainwater drainage          stairs
1.  Alto North                      1248      24           89.9       14             54                 76              95               95                     N.
2.  Alto South                      2305      43           127.2      20             66                  87             92               93                     N.A.
3.  Western Slopes                   671      13           230.2      36             16                  32             45               16                      78
4.  Northern Slopes                   552     tO           117.8      19             25                  42             42               63                      34
5.  Eastern Slopes                   516      10            70.6      11             46                  55             45               55                      25
Total                           5292      100         635.7       100            36                  54             77               77                     29  2/
I/ N.A. - Not applicable
2/ 5 over the population llvino In the slopes.



- 19 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
BOLIVIA
LA PAt MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Finances: 'Recent Trends and Projections
A. RECENT TRENDS
1.        Historically, the Municipality of La Paz has relied primarily on
its own revenue sources, and the main sources of investment financing have
been current account surpluses and borrowings. In Bolivia, municipalities
are autonomous and enjoy the necessary legal conditions to adjust to ehang-
ing economic circumstances. However, between 1982 and 1985, severe infla-
tion coupled with weak financial management debilitated the financial
situation of the Municipality of La Paz.  The Municipality failed to take
corrective measu.es to offset inflation, and the nominal growth of its own
resources fell well below the rate of inflation; real revenues per capita
declined from the equivalent of US$34 to less than US$4, while personnel
costs soared and investment dwindled to almost nothing.   Since September
1985, successful corrective measures allowed the Municipality to achieeve a
satisfactory, although fragile, financial recovery, which the project
should strengthen (Table 1).
Municipal Revenueb
2.          Municipal revenues in La Paz have followed a cyclical pattern.
Current revenues declined from US$15.7 million equivalent in 1972 to
US$10.9 million in 1974, then increased to an all time high of US$25.6
million in 1978 before steadily declining to US$4.5 million in 1984. This
cyclical pattern is characteristic not only of current revenues and each
revenue line item but also of borrowing and transfers (legal and discre-
tionary  revenue  sharing),  which  increased whenever  the Municipality's
ability to collect local revenues decreased.   Thus, in 1984, when local
revenues fell to an all time low of US$4.5 million, transfers from the
Central Government reached an all time high of US$6.0 million (44% of total
receipts).   Borrowings were negligible before 1975, but then increased
substantially between 1976 and 1979, when they averaged US$10 million, or
29% of total receipts, and financed part of municipal investment averaging
US$15.7 million. In summary, between 1975 and 1984, revenues from munici-
pal sources did not offset the effects of inflation; all key revenue items
declined relative to inflation, relative to the dollar and relative to
expenditures, so that in 1984 the Municipality had a deficit of US$11
million on current account, partly covered by US$6 million in transfers and
US$3 million in borrowings. In August 1985, the Government announced that,
as part of the New Economic Program, there would be no further discretion-
ary transfers to municipalities.
3.            Two fundamental policy changes led to the increase in the
Municipality's own revenues since 1985; a more aggress4ve collection and
adjustment of tax rates, and improvements of tax administration and
monitoring.   In 1985, while inflation stood at 11750%, current revenues



- 20 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
increased uy 22454%.  In 1986, after inflation was cut back, municipal tax
collections continuted to increase steadily, and ctrrent revenues increased
73% in real terms.  This was due to the doubling of revenues from property
and vehicle taxes and to a more than three-fold increase in revenues from
user charges  and  betterment levies.   There  remains, however, room  for
significant improvement in collection and billing; for example, the 1986
collection efficienec for the vehicle tax was 46% while property tax
collection covered only about 35% of potential contributors with a cadastre
that had not been updated physica2ly since 1979.
4.           Total borrowings between 1976 and 1986 add up to almost US$53
million, and the Municipality has had repayment arrears since 1982. At the
end of 1986, total outstanding debt was US$32 million. It was renegotiat-
ed, but a third of it is still in dispute with foreigtn equipment suppliers,
because the Municipality claims that the equlipment is defective and wishes
to return it.  Even if the Municipality wins these disputes, however, it
must face significant increases in debt service, beginning in 1987.
Municipal Expenditures
5.         The major expenditures of the Municipality have historically been
personnel costs and investment in infrastructure:
(i)  Personnel expenditures  rose from 49% of total expenditures in
1972 to 85% in 1984.   The total number of municipal employees
ilcreased by 5% between 1979 and 1982, and then soared by over
30% from 1982 to 1983 alone (4034 to 5270 employees). From 1983
to 1985, funds were used to hire unnecessary workers or pay
salaries to non-working employees.  Although investment dwindled
to almost nothing, total expenditures increased faster than
inflation and borrowing was used to cover current deficits.  By
mid-1987, however, the number of employees had been cut to 3529.
Personnel costs in relation to total municipal revenues were
reduced from 104% in 1984 to 28% in 1986 (well within the legal
limit of 50%).
(ii)  Capital expenditures were highest between  1976 and  1980, when
over US$70 million were invested, representing 45% of total
expenditures.      After  that  period,  capital  investment  fell
substantially and was less than 5% of total expenditures in
1985.  Since 1982 most expenditures that could be classified as
capital investments have been temporary responses to emergency
conditions.   Except for self-help community actions through the
First Urban Development Project, no extension of water and sewer
service and no roads have been constructed, no repaving projects
have been undertaken, and no improvements of the storm drainage
system have been made in the last five years.  Overall, it has
been almost a decade since a capital investment program has been
planned, programmed and included in the budget cycle. Conditions
have deteriorated to a point where only a significant turnaround
to preventive projects will avert an ever increasing number of
disasters with attendant social and  economic  losses.   In the
absence of any process for identifying new infrastructure or
reconstruction projects, it was impossible in 1986 to fully



- 21 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
utilize the current account surplus. In order to make effective
use of the resources that are gradually becoming available, it is
essential to develop a comprehensive maintenance program and a
capital investment strategy.
B. NATIONAL TAX REFORM
6.        When fully implemented, the reform established by Law 843, of Nay
20, 1986, should affect substantially the way municipalities finance their
services. Prior to this reform, aInicipalities had three basic sources of
revenues:
(a)    Exclusive  revenues  (Dominio Tributario Exclusivo),  over wf.ich
municipalities had full discretion within some legal limits.
These included municipal taxes, such as property and vehi.le
taxes, user charges, betterment levies, and licenses;
(b)   Business   taxes   (patentes)   levied   on   general   economic
activities, where municipalities were permitted by law to impose
certain additional levies, in a revenue sharing system (Dominio
Tributario Compartido); and
(c)   Participation in nationally levied taxes such as the sales tax
(Dominio Tributario de Coparticipacion).
7.         Under the new law, several municipal revenues are eliminated,
most notably the business tax, vehicle import charge, the public entertain-
ment tax, the tax on alcoholic beverages, and charges for services directly
linked to the property tax.   To compensate for this loss in municipal
revenue, the law establishes a new revenue sharing system, in which the
following, principal revenues will be allocated 75% to the Central Govern-
ment, 10% to municipalities, 5% to universities and :0% to departments:
(a)   newly established value added tax (IVA) levied at 10%;
(b)   customs duties;
(c)   progressive surtax (0.15% to 2.65%) on urban properties worth
more than US$40,000 equivalent; and
(d)   progressive surtax  (0.5% to 4.0%)  on vehicles valued at the
equivalent of about US$5,000.
8.        The law also requires indexation of assessed property and vehicle
values according to the variation in the US dollar exchange rate. Further-
more, it establishes that each municipality's share will be directly
proportional  to  its  contribution  to  each  revenue  category.    La  Paz
Municipality's share is expected to be approximately 50% of the IVA and the
surtaxes on urban properties and vehicles, and 34% of customs duties.  In
addition, municipalities will maintain their revenue authority for property
and vehicle taxes (levied at 0.35% and 1.0%, respectively, on the total
assessed values of all properties and vehicles) and will participate in the
new, national surtax on these items.



- 22 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
C. PROJECT IMPACT ON MUNICIPAL FINANCES
9.         The project would build on the substantial improvements achieved
by the Municipality in 1986, and investments would be phased to ensure
early financial recovery and a reform of financial management before
substantial new borrowings begin. Institutional reforms would be financed
primarily with those proceeds of the IDA credit which would be passed on to
the Municipality as a grant. Table 2 presents project related expenditures
and receipts.
10.        Proceeds of the IDA credit onlent to the Municipality (US$11.2
million equivalent of the total credit of US$ 15 million) would be
denominated in dollars, would bear a fixed interest rate of 8-112% per
annum and would be repaid in national currency at the official exchange
rate on the date of payment.   Those terms are consistent with conditions
offered in the limited financial market in Bolivia.  The amounts on-lent
would be amortized over 20 years, from the date on on-lending.  No grace
period is recommended because (a) significant service payments would begin
in 1990, at the time when the project would start generating a positive
cash flow; and (b) financial discipline would be encouraged if each
administration, elected for two years, were to begin repaying the loans it
contracts. The other US$3.8 million of the credit proceeds would be passed
on to the Municipality as a grant.
11.        Before investment under the project starts to generate revenues,
the execution of the project will result in a negative cash flow for the
Municipality. However, beginning in 1990, municipal finances will show a
strong positive  cash flow  (Table  2).   The impact  of  investment  and
maintenance expenditures on the project, and of revenue improvements
resulting from it, is measured by the project cash flow net of borrowings
or grant receipts (last row of Table 2).  In the case of upgrading, the
satisfactory cost recovery through betterment levies would be maintained.
The direct project cost recovery cash flow illustrates that the project has
4he potential to be self-financing over the 1987/96 period and is used to
calculate its financial rate of return.  Extending the cash flow estimates
through the year 2006 yields a financial internal rate of return on project
investments of 15% (compared to municipal borrowings at 8.67% annual real
interest over 20 years). Attachment 1 of this annex presents the assump-
tions used to estimate the revenue improvement targets resulting from the
project, and the corresponding maintenance costs and incremental revenue
estimates are presented respectively in part III and IV of Table 2.
12.       It should be noted that the Municipality would not presently have
the local resources to support adequately the initial negative cash flow
without the proposed grant. The Municipality would only be able to absorb
the project's negative cash flow over 1987/89 by reducing the investments
already programmed outside the project (Table 2). Although this would not
necessarily endanger the project's implementation, it would not be prudent
under the present circumstances to force the Municipality into this cash
flow shortfall and to require bridge financing from local sources (Table 3
and Attachment 2).
13.       The financial objectives of the:project are relatively modest and
do not envisage that the Municipality would fully recover historical



- 23 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
investment levels.   In effect,   the project's inltial negative cash flow
combines negatively with the high obligations on existing debt servicing.
Beginning in 1990, however, as revenue improvements begin to take hold,
municipal investments outside the project (item 4.C of Table 3) would
become significant, and total investments would increase to US$9 million
per year.   Although this would be a significant  improvement  over  the
performance of this decade, it would represent only 57% of the levels
attained between 1976 and 1979, when municipal investment could be
considered adequate to provide the necessary services to La Paz citizens.
14.       The key factor impeding a return to an annual investment level of
US$16 million is the progress of the natIonal tax reform.   Although the
Ministry of Economy has estimated  that the Municipality should receive
approximately $12 million in shared revenues from IVA and customs duties,
it was assumed that the Municipality would receive only about 40% of this
amount (Table 3, item 2.A).  This is because this potential will only be
reached if several institutional arrangements, including participation of
private banks and effective distribution to municipalities, are efficiently
implemented. Thus, for purposes of dimensioning the project and estimating
its financial impact on the Municipality, a "worst-case" scenario was
judged to be prudent.
15.        The Municipality's Investment and Modernization Program includes
two key indicators to monitor municipal financial management (see Annex
5).    The  first  measures  the  Municipality's  capacity  to  finance  an
acceptable proportion of municipal investment from self-generated funds;
the target being not less than 28% for 1988 and 1989, and 35% for 1990 and
thereafter.    The  second key  indicator monitors  the  achievement  of  a
responsible leverage policy; its target is a 2.8:1 ratio of current
revenues to debt service in 1987 and 1988, and a 3.3:1 ratio thereafter.
The ratio of current revenues to debt service is preferred to that of
current expenditures because (a) the project's financial improvements are
targetted on current revenue improvements, and (b) current revenues are
considered to be more stable and predictable than current expenditures as
they are larger and less dependent upon contracting of municipal services
to independent enterprises.



PAIPAST: AI..S37                                                                            BOLIVIA
LA PAZ WIICIPAL DEVELOPhENT PRDJECT
TALE I
PAST TRENDS IN HUNICIPAI  FIIMNEES
iin USS thousands of June 1987)
1972     1973     1974     1975     1976      1977     1976     1979     1990      1991     1982     1983     1914     1995      396
1. CURRENT EXPENDITURES                 13554    11165    10121    10973    12029    17468    14203    21633    19472    15482    10441       7951    15690       40      7330
A. Ado. Operation I Kaintenance       11125    10240     8900    10795    10120    15390    11940    13160    11745       9797     9570     6480    15410     9100      5410
D. Debt Servicing                      1235      690      923       140      335      790     1326     7486     6585      439      1128     I09       237       740      750
C. Other Current Expenditures          1194      235      298       38       874     1299     1137      987      1142     1217      743      273       43       100     1170
2. CUREWT REVEAUES                      15711    14889    10668    13663    17551    23959    25557    23644    21523    19259    11833       9646      4503      300    14S50
A. Business Tax                         95      7123     6067      7598     9213    10490    10923    10040    O0         6997     5089.    3812      399      2500     4750
S. Property Tax                         935      790      513      598       734     1200     1298      1709     t549     1389      740      423       369     1200     2900
C. vehtile Tal                          396      443       169     243       195     1078     1540      1377     2045     1630      787      299       116     3300     2490
D. User Charges                        2910     2243     1209      1434     2319     2299     2406     2618      159      1531     1098      612      309       900     2820
E. Othtr Current Revenues              4715     4290     2690     3790      5090     6S93     9390     7900      9290     4712     4119     3500      199      2600     1400
3. CW NII ACCUNT SURPLUS/DEFICIT         2157     3724      747     2&90      5522     6391    11354     2011      2053     2777     1392      795   -I!t87    -1640      7020
4. CAPITAL OUTLAYS                       3542     4790     2143     31S9    11121    18627    164"90    16320    7M6        6312     2334     4875      910       300     1535
FINANtED BY:
A. Current Akcount Surplus/Deficit    2157      3724      747     2690      5522     6391    11354     2011     ml        2777     1392      795  -11987    -1640       7020
D. Other Capital Receipts               213      600      213      297       410      321      299      343       209      532      312      117       9        200        0
C. Borrowings                             0        0        0       990     4810    16600     O569    10499      4109     1382        0     2937     3098       600        0
0. 6rant Transfers                      200      610     1780      1599     1539     1823     1588     1107      504      1579      680     1079     6020       200        0
6. TOTAL SURPLUSIDEFICIT                 -972      144      597      2277     1160     6308     5329    -2361    -1021       -42       50       52    -2891      -940     5495
= =  as := =2 ==== zz:                                                S  =          :   =C :2 s=== =.==S=== =-=:'=5  *...=.Z:a.a22..=.            ..s==.3Sf=....= =..ZsaSz as  - a=
Note: Current pesos were converted to 1986 constant pesos and then converted to US$ at exchange rate of Noveeber 1986.



PA:F40i,XU-ol 1
- 25 -
BOLIVIA
LA PAl RJRICIPAL REVELOPERt PPOJECT
tAILE 2
PROJECT RELATED ElPEIDITURES AND RECEIPTS
Ila US  thosatods of June 1971
TOTAL      1SE7     1988      1989    1t90        1991      1992     1993      l994      1995      19t6
1. PROJECT INVESTRERTS
A. PPm                                   1500      1500
8. Ruoncipal Rantoant
1. Adeunuiotrative ReorqaoizX           595        77      401       113         5         0         0
2. Persmnnel Rinagwnt                   508       247       261         0        0         0         0
3, Training Pruqraa                     66         64       396       l8b       20         0         0
4. Ftocial Systsem                      932       378      555         0         0         4         0
5, Ctastre                             2553       342     1354       726       130         0         0
C. Ur ban TrnspoTt
1. lnfretructure                       2547         0      391       696       679       558       223
2. Traffic Rauspeent                   2517         0      415       396       B19       369        19
3. Equiop t                             737         0       114       364      270        39         0
B. Urban hulpmnt
1. Upgrading                           2577       222       503      609      6tI        45S       175
2. Ladsilde Control                    34S9         0       172      550         O      1100       481       206        69
3. Snitation                           2162         0       782      704       36        219        89
4. Coosunuty Edutation                  525         0        47       13      I61       134        53
SUS-TOTAL                              21310      2M50      5391     4915      325       2874      1040       20         69
It. 03l  BERVICM16                         7169                  40       276       517      806      1031      1113      1129      1129     1129
111. PRAITEBlIACE I/
A. PPF                                    554                  57        57        58       58        60        63        65       67        69
I. lotictul lana9wnt                      371                  38        38       39        39        41        42        44        5        47
C. Uran Transert
1. Infrastructure                       489                           12        33        55        70        76        79       82        8S
2. Traf ic Nt naqeot                    bit                            17       52        85       100       101       104      108       112
3. Equpunt                              218                             5       19        t0        31        31        33       34        35
B. Urban Dnlopoent
1. Upqradisa                           7'X                    9       29        53        78        96       103       107      110       114
2. Ldslide Control                     2430                            22       94       206       349       411      438       447       463
3. SanItation                          It7                            94      176       222       249       25        268      217       2S8
U8-TOTAL                                7278                 104       274      526       m         996      1067      1137     1171      12IM
TOTAL PROJECT EXPEROITURWI                3575       2830      5535      5526      4968     4452      3061      2406      2335      2299     2340
IV. RfVElfE IINROVEMNT8 AESULtTIN
FRU    TiE PROECt
1.  oniacipa Ianag9ont
1  Proerty Tat                     105S1                           528      1320      1357     135       1434      1474      1515      1558
2. Vehicle Tax                       64O                           320       800       S1t       339       59        0 E       01       922
C. Uoran Transportlfes I linas"         1771                  ft      162       203       201       215       218      223       229       234
3. Urban   eoelopent
1. Up9rsding (tttertent Ltv.)    4317                     56       185       340       496      612       657       657       657       657
2.Urbn Doelopent
A. SArbau Ctol. F,               2123                 121        30       286       320      334       343       33        363       373
b. Public Areas Fe               4810                           24        600      617       64        652       610       689       708
c. Instpction Fw                  465                            23        58        60        61       63        65        67        68
tlUITOTAL                              31007                 258     1688      307       3877      4088      4226     42        4420      4321
V. fOVERIEllNT  ARTS 1 COFVIAKCIII         68O0      2320      2367      1900       213
VI. 80ftlO BS                             10600       373      2211      2248     2706      2101       76O       151        50
TOTAL PRWECT RECEIPTS                     43407      2693      4836      5U       6527      5978      4848      4317      4372     4420      4521
PROECT CASH FLO0
AMA  lURPI.UlIEflCIT                    12649      -137      -699      310      is59      1526      1762      1971     2037      2120      2180
CUIIUATIVE SIRPLUSMDEFICIT                        -137      -836      -525      1033      2559      441       6512     8549    10469    12649
... .... .. _  .......      .... ..... ------ -. ----- - ... -. ----- - -- - -- -. ---- -_-------------------   .  .. .. ._. 
DIRECT POJECT COST RECOVERY 21
IV- +11111                               2418    -2830    -5236    -3561        -844       231      2053      2953     3115      3249      3309
1/ OcuaaO of the prOJKt's adeinistrative rofers, project anvestonts should
not resuIt in uocreuatal  pertusonal costs. hautenance
includn US 4,825,000 directly related to proloct investents and
eanntenanco to other soicipal infrastructure netessry to prevent
long tore daume to projr%t area.
21 Iased on no borromins or gOrant. The total of US12.4 million is for the 171/96 perld.
For the 198712006 priod,total retovery surplus is USU3S.5 aillion,providmeq on a ottroal rate of return of 15l.



- 26 -
AIPBOJ,AIPASPROJ,1112-P177                                                    BOLIVII                                                                          tAII 3
26-Jun.87 26-Jun-87                                           LA PAZ IDIIICIPIIL DIVLOPU   P80410?
ilPICt 0I  FIOJICS Ol DUIIICINL  INIUCES
(in 05$ thoads of June 1987)
91
1985    186       1987      1988      198      1990     1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996
1. COBREI? KIPNDITQIES                      9940      7330      8679    11209    10432    10329    11414    11925    12162    12350    12303    11142
A. Ads., Operation I baintenance          9100      5410      5572      5732     5958      6268      6714      1146      1452     7126      7990      8269
1. Baseline                             9100      5410     5572      5628      5684      5741      5942     6150      6365      6588      6819      7057
2. Project laintenance 1/                                              104      274       528       172       996     1087      1131      1171      1212
8. Debt Servicing                          140       750      3617      4601     4354      4440      4574      4649      4576     4186      4170      2724
1. Baseline                              740       750     3617      4567      4078      3923      3768     3618      3463      3357      3041      1591
2. Project                                                              40      276       517       806      1031      1113     1129      1129      1129
C. Other Current Ivpenditures 2/           100      11tO       490       670       120       121      125       130       134       139       144      149
2. C0BBINI  RIAIEAKS                        8300    14350    12926    13471    15100    17191    17674    18149    18633    19129    19639    20162
A.  evenue Sharig 3/                      2500      4150      5100      5253     5411      S573      57140     5912      6090     62        6461      6654
D. unicipal leveaues
1. Property Tax                         1200      2900     2958      3017      3606      4459      4559      4811     4185      4172      4981      5093
a. Baseliae                           1200      2900     2858      3011      3016      3138      3202      3268     3331      3396      3466      363S
b. Project lmprovemeats                                                       526      1320      1351      1395     1434      1474      1515      1558
2. Vehicle Tax                          1100      2480     2188      2241      2614      3149      3225      3302     3382      3463      3546      3631
a. Baseline                           1100      2480     2180      2241      2294      2349      2406      2463     2523      2583      264       2709
b. Project lmprovements                                                       320       800       619       839      859       880       901       922
3.  seer Changes                         900      2820      1238     1393      1778      2231      2320      2389     2456      2525      2596      2668
a. Baseline 4/                         900      2820     1238      1213      1308      1345      1383      1421     1461      1502      1544      1581
b. ProJect Sanltatios                                               121       470       886       937       868      99S      1023      1052      1081
c. Project Betterment Levy                                             0       23        58        60        61       63        65        67        68
4. Parkins fees I liaes                    0         0         0        81      162       203       208       213       218      223       229       234
a. Bueline                               0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
b. Project Parkin  Revenues                                          61       162       203       208       213      218       223       229       234
S. Other  unicipal  evenues             2600      1400      1442      1485     1530      1576      1623      1672      1722     1713      182T      1681
3. CABRI? ACCODI  S1OPlUS/D1JICI?          -1640      7020      3247      2262      4668     6363      6261      6225      6470      6779     7335      9020
4. CIPITAL OUTLAIS                           300      1535      7485      6640      8816     9212      8362      6965      6470      6779     7335      9020
. Baseline 5/                              300      1535      3700      1080         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0
S. Project                                                    2830      5391      4915     3925      2874      10
C. Other Iunicipal INveethtnts                                 954       389      3841     535?      5481      1914      6470      6779     7335      9020
5. INANICED BY: 6/
L. Surplus Previous Year                 -3000    -3940       1545         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
B. Current Accoutt Surplus/Deficit    -1640         7020      32t4      2262     4668      6363      6261      6225      6410      6779     7335      9020
C. Other Capital ReceiJ.ts                 200
D. Borrowings                              600         0       373      2211      2248     2706      2101       760
1. Grants                                  200         0      2020       861       700      213         0         0         0         0         0         0
1. Cofinanciag                               0         0       300      1500     1200
6. fO0IL SURPLUS/DITICIT                   -3940      1545         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
1/Includes mintenance of project investments ad to other micipal
infrastrueture necessary to prevent long tern da4ae to project aea.
2/ Iacluding selverance pay for disisse etployees. this accounts for the sharp increase in 1986/68.
3/1985/86 figures are for the forser local busiaess tar Froo 1987, conservative estimates for the new
revenue sharing system are presented.
4/ ie sharp drop in 1987 forward is because significant local chargns were eliuinated by the fiscal reform, theoretically
to be eompensated for with the new revenue sharing systea.
5/ Complet1on of existing contracts is included ik 1987/88.
6/ Assumes no borrowings or grants outside the projeet fron 1981 forward.
1/ After 1996, repaysent of existing debt decreases sharply, project debt service is
service is stable and no proJect related revente inprovement occurs.



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment I
BOLIVIA
LA PAZ MUNICIPA. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A!sun*tlons about Project Rovenue Improveimnts
Project Revenue                                                                              Subsequent Growth
Improvement                  Assumotions and Observations              Target and Dote          In Revenue
Property Tax        imoroved Manaqement Svstem fully operative In       US51.3 millIon       At population
1988; Property cadastre ocerative In southern      additlonal annual    growth rate
zone by 1989 and full citv coveraoe by 1990.       tax revenues by       (2.8%  D.S.)
Increase tax payIng properttes from 67,500 In      1990.
1986 (US$33.14 average tax) to 112,500 units
In 1989 (USS32.05 averaoe tax) and to 150,000
units In 1990 %US$29.7 avernae tax).
Vehicle Tax         Throuah Improved vehicle reqIstratIon system,       USS800,000           At qrowth rate
Increase number of vehicles renistered In 1986   addItlonal annual    of vehicle fleet
by lOt, to 36,6D0 In 1988 and Increase everaqe    revenues by 1990      (2.41 *.a.)
tax per vehicle frem USS75.56 In 1986 to USS86
In 1990
Parkinq Fees        In 1988, 1,350 monthly Parking spaces control-    US5203,000                   n
and Fines         led with average revenues of USS5/spece; by         by 1990
1989, expand to 2,700; and by 1990, to 3,400
spac".         I
terbace Collec-     Expand coveraqg  from 34,320 propertles In          US$334,000           At population
tlon Fees         1986 011  coverage) to 108,500 propertles          addItlonal annual    growth rate
by 1992 (58S coverage). Assume no change           revenues by 1992     (2.8% p.a.)
In averaqe service fee of USS4,50 per
property, although potwntlaI to reach
approxImately USS 12.00/property everage.
Public Areas        LInked to property cadastre Improvent.             USS60,000
Cleaning Fee      50,000 additional Properties charwed at            addltlonai annual
(street clean-    average service fee of US$12.00/unlt/year          revenues by 1990
Inq, etC.)        by 1990.
Sanitation          Linked to property cadestre improvemnts.           USS58,000
Inspection        Increase annual InspectIons from 8,500             addItIonal annual
Fee               In 1986 to 17,000 In 19o. Ave-aoo Inspectlon       revenues by 1990
fee assumed to reain US$6.81, but potentlal
to Increae to about USS14.00.
Upgradinq           Full cost recovery of munlelpl Investments,        USS6$6,000            Assuming a de-
Betterment        on average over 5 years, the period that           additIonal annual    fault rate of
Levy              benefIilaries woule have to pay the levy,          revenues by 1993      20%, revenues
financed at average real Interest rate of                               stable 1993
8.67 p.a. Sams fross-subsidlzatlon of                                   forward
Interst rate and repayment porlod to extend
coverage to poorer areas. Considerlnq 20
year repayment poerlod for municipal borrowing
of proceeds of IAt Credit, Initial upgradinq
Investments could be rolled over 4 times.
Note: Although the landslIde control component would reduce slinificantly maintenance expenses for paeing
and storm dralnage Investments, the city's total maintenance needs are s*o reat, that the reductilns In
matntenence costs resulting from the landslide control component were assumed to be fully utilized by the
Municipallty's aeneral maintenance program.



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
80LIVIA
LA PAZ MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptlons about Municipal Baseline (wlithout Proect) Receipts and Expenditures
(inputs to Table 3)
1987 Basellne
Estimate.
(USX thousand)  Assumptiuns about 1987 Baseline Estimate   1988/96 Chanes
1. Current Expenditures
A. Administration, Operation       5,572       1986 base Increased bV expected Inter-  Same as 1987
and Maintenance                             natlonal Inflation.
B. Debt Ssrvilcnq                  1,617       Actual debt servicing obiigations on    Sam  as 1987
outstanding debt
C. Other Current Expenditures        490       US$380,000 In severance pay pluis        For 1988,
USS110,000 In other expenditures        USS750,000 In se-
veranco pay plus
UISS120,000
In other expen-
ditures. For 1904
forward,
US$120,000 anual-
ly Increasing at
expected Interna-
tlonal Infiatlon
2. Current Revenues
A. Revenue Sharing                 5,100       7% Increase over local business tax     1987 base Increas
revenues In 1986. WIth national         Ing at expected
revenue reform, conservative assump-    GOP growth rate
tlon                                    (3% p*&a).
8.1 Property Tax                  2,958        1986 base growing at 2% p.a.            Same as 1987
8e2 Vehileo Tax                   2,188       National fIscal reform reduces 1986      1987 bass Increes
level by 10%                            Ing at rate of
vehicle fleet
growth In recent
past (2.4% p.s.)
8.3 Usr Charges                    1,'38       569 decrease from 1986 base because     1987 base crowing
of national fiscal reform ellisnat'on    at rate of popu-
of municipal coveraqe                    latlon Increase
(2.8% p.a.)
8.4 Othor Municipal Revenues       1,442       1986 base qrowing at expected rate      Sam  as 1987
of GOP growth (3% p.a.)
4.A. 8aseltne Capital Outlays        3,700        Investment programmed outside proJect    1988, completion
of current Invest
ment proare out-
side project,
1989 forward
assumes no Invest
Ments.
4.C. Other tunicipal investments      954        Surplus of capital recelpts (item 5)    Same as 1987.
over baseline and project Invest-
ments. Avallable for other
Investments outside the project



BOU9 A
LA PAZ MUNCPAL DEVELOPMEW PROJECT
Municipcl Organizatinal Chart
--   .
19omwSCf                                            ;bt 1RO
r~~~~~~su -    _                                                       =L-  r   I 
O~~~~~~w                                                                                                                                             '0wcom
Chbi TectWAd                                                 Ch                                                    _     , 
OkPCIoOW*      okec$o        oesrcpo
an POctileasr and                          POI br fl
ofda tre  and  <*aig            Tpcw of t                                                      okecufto        o n                          |   tbed 
_l         _      m   T"Opb    _    W     _W  T      af  t        co mr                           Dkdod          of Po  lo
ll ll o- I                                                                                                          B c 3 * - 3l
Wokl 9-34134



- 30 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
BOLIVIA
LA PAZ MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The First Urban Development Project (Loan 1489-BO)
Original Objectives of the Project
1.        At the time of project preparation, housing and urban development
were considered prioritary investment sectors for government: investments
amounting to about US$50 million equivalent were included in the national
five year plan for housing and about as much again for other urban invest-
ments.   The project objectives were to provide and improve shelter and
other urban services for beneficiaries down to the lowest 5th percentile of
income distribution, strengthen institutional coordination and expand job
opportunities for artisans and small scale entrepreneurs.
Project Description
2.        The project included (a) a program to develop serviced sites with
core dwelling units and industrial/commercial plots in El Alto; (b) an
upgrading program in low income areas to provide essential infrastructure
and other urban services, and construction material credits; (c) the
construction of five new retail food markets to serve marginal settlement
areas; (d) the provision of a line of credit for artisans and small scale
entrepreneurs to increase income and generate new jobs, and; (e) the
provision of technical assistance and training.
3.        The implementation of the major components was the responsibility
of the National Council for Housing CONAVI (sites and services), MLP (urban
upgrading and markets), and the Industrial Bank, BISA (line of credit).
Complementary activities were to be performed by the Housing Bank (BANVI)
and the Ministry of Health,   Project suffered from severe and recurrent
shortages of funds and initial implementation was delayed by lack of inter-
institutional coordination.  The Loan Agreement was amended several times,
mostly to reduce CONAVI's responsibilities and increase the components
implemented by MLP.
Lessons Learnt from the Project
4.         Lessons were learnt from the problems encountered during imple-
mentation and from the achievements of the project: they are as follows:
(a) political unrest and economic instability represent a substantial
risk in Rc'livia. The First Urban Project was implemented during
periods of severe economic crisis with:   loss of productivity;
lack of counterpart funds and of access to funds via the Central
Bank; devaluation coupled with hyperinflation; lack of definition
of the exchange rate leading to delays in disbursements.  It is
estimated that political turmoil resulted in delays of about 18
months and suspensions of disbursements by the Bank caused
additional delays of two years;



- 31 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) a committed and agile implementing agency can substantially
overcome the depressed economic environment:   MLP participation
in the project continued smoothly during the inflation period and
even surpassed targets. MLP pursued a precautious policy against
inflation through buying ahead and storing materials.   At the
time of intense shortages it used food-for-work and self-help
techniques to enable projects to move ahead;
(c) a simple institutional framework, with preferably only one
implementing agency, is necessary in La Paz where inter-institu-
tional coordination has proven extremely difficult to achieve.
During the last two years of project implementation however, an
adequate coordination between MLP and BISA was achieved;
(d) the social dimension of projects and the community participation
in decision making, execution and cost recovery of subprojects is
essential to the success of projects in La Paz. For example, the
positive development of the MLP upgrading project and of the
health  component,  which  between  1979  and  1982,  virtually
eradicated diarrhea and gastro-enteritis in El Alto, were entire-
ly based on community education, participation and support.  On
the other hand, CONAVI and BANVI projects, which did not focus on
the social and community aspects, had a history of delays,
materials being stolen, vandalism, tenure problems and failure to
recover costs; also these projects did not benefit the intended
low income beneficiaries;
(e) project costs, estimated in US dollars for MLP components, were
reliable and have shown minimal variations over time despite
delays and local inflation;
(f) cost recovery can be achieved in La Paz for urban upgrading even
at  the  time  of  severe  local  inflation.    Inflation was  not
anticipated during appraisal and project entities experienced
severe losses when the monetary devaluation accelerated.  After
reviewing cost recovery procedures, MLP has recovered costs in
dollar equivalent: the observed (10%) delinquency ratio is taken
into account to ensure full cost recovery and capitalization.
Would hyperinflation occur again, cost recovery would be limited
by the reduced payment capacity of beneficiaries, but would not
be jeopardized
(g) special bidding procedures are necessary to ensure adequate
procurement for IDA projects.  The procedures used to implement
the First Urban Project, after their amendment in 1979, were
swift and fully satisfactory to the Bank;
(h) an urban project in La Paz serves as an example in the rest of
the country. MLP has provided, formally and informally, technic-
al assistance to municipalities throughout the country; the
positive experiences of the project are known and it is being
replicated in other cities;



- 32 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
(i) staff continuity and adequate salaries in the implementing agency
are necessary to ensure satisfactory  performance.    This was
demonstrated throughout the implementation of the Project by the
responsiveness and dedication of MLP's staff, and to a lesser
extent BISA's, and by the poor performance of the other institu-
tions; and
(j) it is necessary to define clearly project components and respon-
sibilities before evaluation.  This was illustrated during the
project execution by the problems experienced by CONAVI for lack
of definition of procedures for the handover of sites and serv-
ices, and by the delays in the technical assistance component.
Conclusion
5.          In conclusion, the lessons learnt during the implementation of
the First Urban Development Project were taken into account for the design
of La Paz Municipal Development Project.   The staff of the First Urban
Project contributed substantially to the preparation and start up of the
proposed project. In addition, the Project Unit provided the institutional
model of functional unit, now being reproduced for many activities of the
Municipality. Last but not least, MLP's First Urban Development Project
enjoys a unique credibility in the population which has facilitated the
initial stage of the proposed project.



saiviA
LA PAZ SSSPAL U0VgLffIJt PIJOCT
teycoebet *od ttod..e.¢tlee Pegtop
C71e;S                        INOICA7tO                   let. Soeoter         led. S.oetesr         lot. $eswetop         led.              leter    et. Seometer  2ad. S   ter    tct. Sometos         Zed.  etetr
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  ottertZlatSE
t.  tolew  *sd conotlIdote       Otgsptea sad et#aole-                                Fleleb rovl*w           0rg. gem               otgeelgr.m                to                 to                 to                   to
weelelpat So tq teel          tlteet _aett wth                                     scod preteet           ted  oeaseS             *ed o@o'-
terleleg* d4e*etret-         Ceots3et3te   ads #te**-                              edSlsttre-             epe9ted                 t16*ee
Igetloe  of fs.etlo@e         tr*ettettat of fottl.e*6                            tolve/l*14                                    m_eet
t. RPtloeettltlo of etttSff go pafil                                                  No mere t1ea 350*                             so Meor  thee 7200                      No mere tbee 2900                   o meore thee 2770-
petooasel                     pereewet tepeett tbre                                fe mere thee 1*S4.40                           No Pero thoe  33904.9                        to                                      I0
MMIftox (e*s*000                              mIlilo. (oeoest)
S. Clese0fleetSe* of             Oeoertptloe  of jobs                                  Canalet*d tfr          tett1et*#                                                      Comploted                                     to
jeob                                                                               ho. jeob               fot  ltl                                                       tot all
Jobs                                                           jobe 
4. goose  esoeurce               CeVopsetteo  teeeteu$elt                                                     Ileod ereemee*t                         _ tepleet6-                              O6eefmeotetfo* bed         t0
oewvtoepe*t Pr.temr           08teete ee  egqreeewt t*d                                                   .0d lemlemOttlse,                                               flue *cde         ether *etames
doencmetetlto  *pet ta                                                      etert                                                                                                                     t
S. Soeteopeeat of 1C0A           Ceeperetlee ot  toeeeleel                                                    S0t.od egtoreemt                                                 vlveme,t*- t     Prog.0                     t0
oteteteo  *greosest                                                         scd vle*t tto-tler tIe  eede                                                      tr11 e
$terte                                                                           oeetottooel
5. Idetiffeetlee of              Aeceel tratlelg pit.             PItt for led.       Pt*. for t19            t olsettle  M9T7       Pleo  3009         eoteettle  39        P3c ICt"           F.8l.tio. l9ot       Ploe  l991
t**eeg s*eede                                                  cet
7. staff traWel                  Anewe  repo#rt                                                               teprt 3"07                                t**prt 1902                              ep*ort to9o
0. Adetaltrotlwo  syet.m         Steptiffeotle. of proce-                              toplae-totto.          All eyetet                  50       tO                           to                  t0                   tO
ftee  *ed #0rwt1c#  to                               starts                 logtoseetsd
the pebtie
Coeperetlee  aed or                                                         Slg*ee  egtteamet                                              tipieet.tio         retrtt.                  ID
esebeet*4e etreee*et                                                        t*d lmptootettleo                                              #*de               epe,ettot l
eterte
F N. P5A*lt  WAMA S!ENT
9. imprfee_et of tht             Sytetm. Is op*Ottoe,                                  looteme*t.t.                                  speteme                 to                 tO                  30                   tO
sec*a*et1e  systeom.                                                               etett                                          opttle.t                                                                                       5
leve*e t.t ptgromle,.                                                                                                            updatd ted  os-                                                                                     Vti
ethielee rtgletty.                                                                                                               t*TrY of met-
eot3eet3ee. t*tvltry of                                                                                                          etpoe  Seed sod
me.telpet preportt, tttet15  epeolg
wdltlao aed ptre*te-                                                                                                              of sew proePrty
Meet                                                                                                                              r"etrpy.
l e. weamwtt of *991t so mee ttde 2400
ted, semester ef t923 *o mer* thee 2500



1 SS7                                       a ges                                    198                                      190 ss
ACTION                        foDICAvo*                    set. Seueattf 2nd. Setet                    tst. Sognte           Trd. o_etev   let. 5est,,              ted. Seet           let. Semet.          2nd. Smite,
tO. tlateuoetlteoe of              System t  o evrtloo                                   its                     tlmpte.etette2 Pb*.  PI                                                                                       4
eometetleod d"to              tby #hee.)                                                                    *0rtes                  oeV*attlent                                                                     opoertooste
It. Setta*  lvest.eet             IIll. of  ereat aceemet                               tio Iae then                                   80 loss tkee                             me faee  thee                          "Oftele rtio
capacity                      eetptla   evor **ept##                                28%                                             282                                     3ss
t2. Debt sproIeo                   tettl  of ceerret                                     At laget 2.8                                   At least 2.8                             At I...t 3.3                            N.latele  fetfl
veevee urge debt
I3. Ctottyt of p.odeet,Itty        iattl  otf Personne                                   Aciheve ratio           MllFatlt  ratto               to              ID                      tD                  ID                 tD
to prowIdIng $e*rocee         ext.edlturae ever *etoret
r*1ev. butel.. 0.30
t4. Teebatcal prperly              system In opetetton                                   T*ehel*ol  peep.t t- Start fpo1men-                                                     Aptpllctlo. of                         eo*plntlo   of
cedaoCte                                                                            tIon or neeletee"ct tetle                                                               the codest,. to                         cedettre and
*gro.emat and TOo                                                                       the bett of Lo Pae                     beep updated
C. P5751tC/ FXf2CiTtOtt
tS. BIddIng pocedures              Stromallsad btddtq1               Cetalotee for       Atenet btddleg                                 Anenal bIddIng                                 SD                                     tD
pfoee4da?e   In Pfec*             fetogtered *r-    program compete                                  program
toerpl*e  fort    pendlag fInat
copetr,ettlo        det*                                                                                                                                                U.
41ee61fted by
ce tegory
t6. Itehablttatioe of              S of aeqepme*t                                        aet Isee  twen                                 tOOt
,qatloomt                     robabliltated                                         502
tt. t.leteeeee of                  Operettlepl malaten-                                                                                 peaeI wol trot.  1o1webap                    toD                to                    tD
eqetlpant                     cnca  yet.tm                                                                                         Cd and malatc,-  censtrutead
nace cyate le
ep*tetlon
tI. IMtaitnetettn Aent nel                         nceo                                  tS8S aceeptable        l9Ct ra*eetod           19t9 oveoCteble  1s08  foeceted         1990  eccepteble  t990 Executed         119t ee-
mnletot"en                   *expenditure                                            to IOA                                         to IDA                                  to IDA                                  btle  t  trA
It. Emeroency vr.oonfhl            A*n***a  eapgaditnle                                  not Inse the*                                  no loee  tha                                 toD                ID                   tD
vetba                                                                               US*S@0.000                                      US02 .111I9o
rIst  coetrol                                  rIch controt
20. Civil vora                     twmpleont.tton of                                     1g8e sprote             402 of IBSA            tlls  eegram       42t of 1139           1980 *,mge9m       C0  of 1t990        Newt  rearm aro e 0
cannet prot-ao                                        acceptable to          pvegtem                 accepteble to    pre,row                coestpbte  to    proraw m                een  afcept-
IDA                    *xeccted                IDA                executed             lOA                ecerotad             able to IOA
end 402  aennot        Vt
ad dee-lg
#that Semester



- 35 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
BOLIVIA
LA PAZ MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A. Municipal Management Improvement
(1)  Administrative Reorganization Program  (US$0.6 million).    This
program consists of: a) Proceeding with the changes in organiza-
tional structure introduced during project preparation which have
resulted in the consolidation of six technical and five adminis-
trative units, and a staff reduction from 5,270 in 1985 to 3,500
employees.  Further streamlining would be implemented before the
end of 1988. This phase of reorgantzation would aim at reducing
operational activities and consolidating planning and control
functions to increase the efficiency of municipal operations.
Staff reduction to about 2,500 employees by the end of 1992 is
planned in conjunction with the decentralization of operations
and renewed use of contractors whenever it is practicable and
more efficient.  Also, operations and management of the garbage
collection and disposal system, the slaughterhouse, the municipal
transport system, and a factory for producing cement pipe would
be converted into independent self sustained enterprises before
the end of 1988; b) establishment of related policies, operation-
al objectives and procedures for each functional area of the new
organizational structure.   The Spanish Government would provide
financing for this component for 65 man-months of technical
services including five junior staff assistants and senior
advisors with local government experience to work on the follow-
ing key problem areas:  relations between Municipal Council ani
Mayor, and related basic municipal law and regulations; registry
of municipal properties (land, buildings and equipment); paper
flow, documentation and administrative procedures; squatter
settlement control; and c) provision of a computer terminal to
record and monitor public requests, and for processing of
municipal administrative services to the public. The Directorate
for Community Action, which receives community requests would be
strengthened to be able to take a more proactive -ole in
community relations, through visiting the communities, --eting
their leaders, assessing needs and evaluating requests, priori-
tizing action programs, and promoting community participation.
Improvement of municipal service standards would include: handl-
ing individual citizen requests expeditiously; establishing a
well identified reception area in the Municipality's central
office where requests would be handled supported by a computeriz-
ed data base system to record and monitor actions taken; inform-
ing the public about municipal services, their conditions, costs
and timing, including publicizing of official complaint proce-
dures through distribution of a citizens manual, self financed by



- 36 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
advertisements of local businesses. The computerized monitoring
system would enable each citizen to check on the status of their
request and would also enable the Municipality to identify
delays, monitor efficiency, and work on eliminating bottlenecks.
The project would provide equipment for data management and
office equipment, and the Spanish Government would finance the
technical assistance;
(ii)  Personnel  Management  System  and  Training  Program  (US$1.2
million).   Implementation of a new and strengthened personnel
management  system  and  instituting  in-house  staff  training
program.  The French Government would provide financing for two
advisors for two years and short term visits of specialists in
relevant subject areas for a total of 48 man-months of technical
assistance  starting in 1987.   The advisors would assist the
Municipal Training Institute (ICAM), ila designing and implement-
ing the training program related to project activities including
the measuring kLi the training impact on the municipal opera-
tions. Also they would provide assistance for the assessment of
further training needs and the development of corresponding
training courses.   Nine priority areas for staff training have
been identified:
(a)  Environmental  sanitatioi,  and  the  control    ¢  floods   and
landslides;
(b)  data base  and management  for planning,  property  and vehicle
registrat4 on, and revenue administration;
(c)  urban education for community development;
(d)  financial management, including budgeting, accounting and finan-
cial planning;
(e)  urban planning, with emphasis on the use of urban space;
(f)  assessment of infrastructure needs, including water, sewer, waste
disposal, traffic, transportation and public works;
(g)  legislation related to municipal functions,  coitracts,  regula-
tions and legal codes;
(h)  municipal services, including their organization, operation and
maintenance; and
(i)  communications, group dynamics and public relations.
Yearly training programs and ex-post evaluations would be review-
ed by IDA.   A Municipal Documentation Center would also be
established as part of ICAM. This Center would gather materials
on municipal projects,  studies  and reports  for consultation,
planning or for training purposes.  The French Gover-nment would



- 37 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
finance technical assistance, and the credit would finance
related equipment for training.   IDA would also finance incre-
mental salary costs of key municipal staff on a declining basis,
concomitant with the implementation of the new salary structure,
Funds would be disbursed on a lump sum basis at the end of 1987
and of 1988 conditioned to the implementation of certain actions.
(iii) Financial Management Improvement Program (US$0.9 million).
Implementation of computerized accounting systems to improve:
budgeting,   financial   and   investment   planning;   management
information and control including setting up of cost profit
centers for services of tax collection and direct user charges.
A system would be developed to facilitate the payment of taxes to
the Municipality, particularly by enabling citizens to pay their
taxes  at  local  banks.    It would  facilitate tax collection,
increase taxpayer compliance and operate at a lower-cost per
Boliviano  collected.    The  project  would  provide  technical
assistance, equipment and training of municipal staff;
(iv)  Municipal Cadastre (US$2.6 million).  Updating of the municipal
cadastre to increase revenues from property taxes and improve
development planning and management of urban services.   This
would involve updating and improving the registration of urban
property, reviewing assessment procedures and adjusting the tax
rate, and implementing a systematic billing and collection
program. About 54 man-months of foreign specialists and 318 man
months of local technicians and staff over 26 months would be
required to update aerial photography, produce maps, train
municipal personnel and surveyors, undertake surveys and set up
the information system. Training of staff and the equipment for
the recording and maintenance of cadastral data would be provided
by the Netherlands Government by means of parallel co-financing
equivalent to US$600,000.
B,  Urban Transport (US$5.9 million).
(i)  Infrastructure  (US$2.6 million).   Low cost  rehabilitation of
major access roads and paving with stones of about 34 km (about
205,950 m2) of unpaved streets and construction of stairways and
of a bus terminal in El Alto. The credit would finance the cost
of contracted civil works;
(ii)  Traffic Management (US$2.5 million).   Basic improvement to the
street network, horizontal demarcations such as white paving for
pedestrian crossings and carriageways; exclusive busways in the
avenues Montes, Santa Cruz, 16 de Julio, Villazon and Arce;
vertical traffic control system (traffic lights, stop and yield
signs); and construction of about 135 bus shelters; demarcation
of a blue zone parking area in the city with about 660 parking
spaces to promote parking rotation in the commercial center, and
maximum parking space in demand area. This component would also



- 38 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
include the definition and enforcement of traffic regulations,
public transport itinerary concessions and conditions for micro
and other buses; implementation of the troncal between El Alto,
Plaza Alonso de Mendoza, Humboldt and San Miguel in Calacoto.
The cost of contracted civil works, equipment and services would
be financed under the project.
(iii) Equipment (US$0.8 million). Rehabilitation of vehicle and heavy
municipal equipment; setting up of a maintenance workshop in
Sopocachi with adequate equipment and spare parts, and a heavy
equipment parking lot; setting up of a municipal equipment
maintenance system with adequate accounting and cost control
measures for prevention and routine maintenance; training of
mechanics, operators and drivers and of section leaders and
supervisors.   The credit would finar.ce the cost of contracted
civil works, equipmeitt and services.
C.  Urban Development and Infrastructure Improvement.
(i) Urban Upgrading in Marginal Areas (US$2.6 million). The project
would provide basic infrastructure in about nineteen selected
neighborhoods implemented with community participation, including
water, drainage,  and pedestrian walkways.   Technical services,
construction materials, equipment and the cost of contracted
civil works would be paid for under the project.
(ii)  Civil Works to Control Landslides (US$3.4 million).   Flood and
erosion control works, including river enhancement protection for
42 river basins in 7 high risk areas; storm drainage improvements
with the construction of special storm drains of 130 1/s to 860
l/s capacity; repaving and repositioning of sewer pipes; repair
of culverts, vaulting of open channels, enlargement of canaliza-
tions and construction of intermediate channels; landslide
prevention works, instituting land use regulations and procedures
to prevent uncontrolled "irregular settlements"; and establish-
ment of an early warning system including emergency assistance
procedures for victims. The GTZ would provide the equivalent of
120 man-months of technical assistance advisory services and
training to the Municipality. Such assistance has been available
for several years and has become a model of excellence in
developing local skills.  The credit would finance the cost of
contracted civil works and special equipment.
(iii)  Solid Waste Management and Sanitation (US$2.2 million).   Repair
and maintenance of trash collection and compaction vehicles,
including provision of spare parts; design and implementing of a
garbage collection system along sidewalks in the accessible areas
of the center, and using containers elsewhere; civil works for
garbage transportation, to serve south and center parts of the
city; setting up of a street cleaning system using push carts,
t:rucks, or motorcycles including establishing sweeping posts;
improving  and  equipping  a  laboratory  of  bromatology  and



- 39 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
sanitation control,  including updating of sanitation    les and
enforcement of sanitation laws; construction and equipping of a
municipal czater of zoonosis (400 m2) with medical consultory;
environmental pollution control system; and, decentralization and
privatization of part of the solid waste and sanitation manage-
ment system.  IDA would finance professional services, technical
assistance for staff training, equipment and  spare parts, and
the cost of contracted civil works.   It would also finance the
costs of a technical twinning arrangement with the Municipal
Enterprise for Urban Services, Medellin, Colombia (E.E.V,V.) to
ensure transfer of experience from a successful company working
in a comparable environment. The mentor institution would assist
the Municipality in the implementation of the project, the
development of technical manuals, in tariff definition and
collection and in various institutional aspects related to the
decentralization of the sanitation unit.
(iv)  Community  Education  (US$0.5  million).    This  component would
include a pilot community education program covering city
services, civic responsibility, and community participation,
through use of radio campaigns.   It would also introduce an
experimental curriculum on community education in five pilot
elementary schools and radio campaigns to support each major
municipal action and civil works program under the project. It
would be implemented by the Directorate of Community Education
under the Chief Officer for Culture.   The project would provide
professional services, equipment and materials.



PROCtULP ,A1 .V53                                                                             BOL. JVIA
LA  PAZ  tMlNICIPAL DE'VELOPMENT  PROJECT
----------------------------------
INDICATIVE PROCUREMENT DISTRIBUTI1N
----------------------------_-----
(in US$ thousands of June 1987)
---- --- --- - -- --- --- --- --- --- ----    ---:- -   -- -  --    ---   ---   ---  ---  -- -    ---   ---   ---   ---   ---- --   ---  ------
i   BAXE                  I.C.B.            t           L.C.P.            IForce   Account
COMfPONENT                                                         I                ----------------------- -------------- - _
I  COST       :N.   of   t   Total   !No.   of   t  iotel   t                      Total
I             lContractal  Amount   (Contracts   Amc-unt   I                      Amount
-- - - -   - -  -  --   -  -  -  -  -  -  --  -  -  -  -  -  -I---   -  --.      -  -  -  -I- --------                                                -
MUINICIFAL MIANAGEM4ENT                                             I                            I              t
______....._.___... 1                                                                               1    1                     :              I
I             I      .      .       . I     *                             I:::
Administrative  reorganization                                 1       540                I 1        486 5             0              0                     54t
Personnel   erngeetient  and  training                         I      1t75  J             I          503               Q 6            0                    5S   r
Linanctclt  Seetess                                                    867  :            2           597  I            a  I           O  :                 2?t :
Cteastre                                                       :      Z300  t             I         1215  :                           El                  ten   I
*             I              I              I              I              : 
IURBAN  7RANSPORI                                                  I              :
.. __ __ ____ . _ t .................................... I                                     I       :                         I                                     t0
|      t              :              |             0              I  S  I 
Infrastructure                                                 1      2193  It           I           222             20 Z        1570  1                  401
lreffic  management                                            ;      2583  t            3  1        18   :            4  1       350  :                    1 t
EQuitpent                                                      t       684               a  I           O             IS  1        684  1                     O
URBAN  DEVELOPMENT                                                 5
___    ________-____  ,I                    I                             t
Uspgradingt                                                           Z2SO, :O1                         0 1          301:        2258:                       O  :
Landss-ide  control                                            t      2945  '            O:                         i0  1        294S'                       0
I          :             |              I              :              :~ S 
Sanitation                                                     :        393              6  :       1t29               c           5S4                    310
^   .                                                '              :              I              Z             '              '                       :~~~~~~~~~~*. 
Coi0ttnsnty  Education                                         :       450               a              0  1          is           450  t                    0
:             1              1              :              t                                      *
I             I              1              I              I              I                      :
Total                                                              1    17380  1            iS  I       Sa9S            190  1       8803 5                  2707
-- -- -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - -  --  -  -  -                   --  -  -  -   --   -  -  -   --   -  --  -  --   - --   -  --   - --   -  --  -



- 41 -
CISCiED A,11.38                                            ANNEX 0
BOLIVIA
LA PAZ MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
I    Calendar   year        I    Bank   I        US$ ilillion            1
I    Sonmster ending        I    Year   I       OisburseFent
X  I         I Semester       Cumulative
December 1987          I    FY89   1        1.0             1.0 a) I
I    June      1988         1    FY88   1        0.4              1.4    1
I    December 1988          I    FY89   1        0.6             2.0     1
1    June      1989         1    FY89   1        0.8             2.8     1
1    December 1989          I    FY90   1        1.0             3.8
I    June      1990         1    FY99   1        1.1             4.9    1
I    December 1990          1    FY91    1       1.2             6.1     1
I    June      1991         1    FY91    i       1.2             7.3     1
I    December 1991          I    FY92   1        1.3             8.6     1
I    June      1992         i    FY92   1        1.3             9.9    1
I    December 1992          1    FY93   1        1.2            11.1    1
I    June      1993         1    FY93   I        1.1            12       1
I    Deeenber 1993          I    FY84   I        1.0            13.2     1
I    June      1994         I    FY94            9 0.8 b)       14.0
1    December 1994          1    FY9S   1        0.6 b)         14.6    1
I    June      1995         I    FY9S   1        0.4 b)         15.9    I
I            I
I________________________I   ---------I---------------------------
a)   Includes US$ 9.9 million Special Account opened upon
credit effectiveness
b)   Rate of disbursement reduced to recover advance made
for Special Account upon termination of Project.



e~~~~~ _                                                                        a   E  e.                   - iREE      ,twt
a -   .  .4    .  -.  .      - ..      .            .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .-
-                                 .-                ..              !
a ~~   _          S                           _            a  a  -  a  a 
-_Z_a               _        a                      --  a  __ S_ _-  a  a  a_
-   -       Za           -                       a      a  a  a -     -    a 
a  a                                              a    a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a   :~    
a                                a        a  a,   a    a                          a        
a  a          a  a  a  a  a            a  a  a    a _      a  a  a  a  a  a .              .    ._0      
a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a    a  a  -  a    a .                    a  a  a....  .  a             , *    
an       a      a       a  a  a*                                 -  -  a        a
a a a a a a a              ...a    ..  I
a  a  a  -  a  a  a  a  a  a    a  a  a  a    a   a      a~~~~t _
a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a    -  a  -  a    a   a                    *a,  _         f 
a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a    a  a  a  a    a   a      -~~~~~~~~~~~ _ 
a~~~~~~~~ a                                                      
::   ::  ::   :.      .       .a               ~~~~*j a 
_S         S         SS
a~~~ a        a   a      a          n    n a                            
a  a  a  a  a  -  a    a  a  a  a  ~aa                              a



- 43 -
UEtIOST1157s                                                                                              la
La P01 MICIt Imam111 PSJCCT
...... ..... . . ......
kteled test (astu
(in U1 t     tUmd  of Jura I7)
.... .. .... .... .. . ......  -----------.               ......
tt                                                   Loes        r             f Iortip    tow   am ast
..... ... ~~_ ... i, ... .. _. ..... ~~..... ~. ..                       .....   ---- ---
L   Prjt   hPatia !f1l1tv.                            t17             23         16.31       ISO          7.91
J.- litclp1 N         .                                3516          1156        241.         78         2L.
bhilnsbtivat rsapouatlon.                         510              0         8.01        510         2,1
Pr l   _AM t and Otdidiq.                          to"            70         6.61       17           5S7
rim"   s,i.                                       Su             3tS        B..           ?          1.6
Cadtf                                             1              m          33S         2           1.
C.- N      Taatt.                                     71            116         26.61          0        2U1
tI nrst                                          1610             3         25.21       213         11.6S
traffic  nAPMt.                                  172             161        21.11        183        11.6
&Plmt.                                            351            313        486          6           3U61
3.- S.dwopmtt                                         4752           275         37.0        753e        3s.n1
kU41q                                            1s12            73         301S   m22e             11.55
Lanslid    e!.                                   2116            733        27.11       2315        MU61
liu ru          o.                               US6            591        1.A         147          7.1
0*0*.                                            130            zoo        II.2        1169         7.0
sutatiau                                          64            121         66.L        183         10.0
ea ob .aw 0ttrn                                 2a              650        70.61        a50         1.S1
Strut  lm*q.                                      II            257        58.9S        1n          2.31
Sminhrp Catrow.                                  214            332        61.61        606         3.21
Ca ty CUm o.                                      15               0         0.e ae        0         2.41
rtd B e t                                        1330o           ss71        23.51s     109         13.0o
scu  cto          a                              1237            58         29.51       1755
Pne  et oe       V"176                                           113        23s5         675
Sitnbl cantinmces                                173             77         29.5s       2130
tOllt  mitti tOSt                                1022            68          2n.ss      21310



- 44 -
AN= 11
BOLIVIA
IA PAZ MUICIPAL E VEMM  P1)ECr
Project Eeution and FLnnl         Plan
(US$ million)
Total    1987  1988 1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994 1995
MLP                                   3.3      0.1  0.1  0.2  0.6  0.7  0.7  0.5  0.3  0,1
MA,                                  15.0      1.0  1,0  1.8  2.3  2.5  2.5  2.1  1.4  0.4
G'Z                                   1.4      0.2  0.7  0.5
Frexh Goverenmt                       0.6            0.3  0.3
Netherlands Goverrmient               0.6      0.1  0.3  0.2
Spanish Govrenat                     0.4             0.2  0.2
lOTAL                                21.3      1.4  2.6  3.2  2.9  3.2  3.2  2.6  1.7  0.5



- 45 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
BOLIVIA
LA PAZ MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic and Sensitivity Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return of each component of the project vary
between 24 and 48%, except for the municipal management component, for
which a lower rate of 13% has been computed (see Table 1). This is because
only a small portion of the economic benefits of this component are quanti-
fiable.  All project preparation costs have been taken into account and
there are no sunk costs for the project.  Costs and benefits exclude taxes
and transfers.   For all components, the foreign exchange component is
shadow priced at 1.2.  Wage cost of unskilled labor is shadow priced to
reflect the compensation distributed in  "food for work program"  (US$45
equivalent per month). The detailed assumptions and analysis are presented
below for each component and in Attachment 1 and 2 of Annex 2; the computer
output is available in the Project File (item 2.3, vol. 7 and item 3.3).
Municipal Management
2.           The IERR for the municipal management component is 13%.  This
component is central to the project because it makes possible the implemen-
tation of every other component.  Although the economic cost is readily
derived from financial costs, most economic benefits of this component are
not quantifiable or accrue indirectly, through the other components. Other
benefits, such as increased fiscal revenues are also not of an economic
nature.  The only quantifiable economic benefit for this component is the
efficiency gain in the municipal administration. Efficiency gain has been
measured for decentralization and privatization of municipal activities,
productivity improvements due to the introduction of a new salary structure
and personnel management system, and enhancement of service standards to
the public.  Therefore, the quantified benefits consist of the sum of the
economic value of time saved to process tax payments, registration of
vehicles and property, technical changes to the cadastre, building permits
and neighbor community requests.  The operating costs for this component
consist of the maintenance of relevant physical facilities and equipment
and the operation and maintenance of the Municipal Training Institute.
Urban Transport
3.         The rate of return of the urban transport component is 48%.  The
economic analysis of this component is computed using the traditional
methodology of vehicle operating cost and fuel savings.   The model was
calib;ated using in situ observations made during project preparation to
take into account the specific average speeds, operating costs and fuel
consumption due to the altitude and topography of the city. In addition to
the standard benefits, the time saving in the El Alto-city center corridor
has been included in the analysis because it represents a 66 minute saving
in a non stop segment with 98,600 daily passengers. The two way commuter
trip between a residential neighborhood of El Alto and the work place in



- 46 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
the city center may take up to about five and one-half hour, and reducing
substantially this travelling time has a high economic value,   The time
saving of commuters has been computed as one quarter of the shadow priced
unskilled labor salary.  Without time savings, the rate of return of the
urban transport component is 28%.  This reduced IERR is not a fair measure
of the overall project economic return because it does not reflect the
achievement of the major objective of this component.
Urban Upgrading
4.         The IERR for the urban upgrading component is 33%.  The economic
analysis of this component included all infrastructure investments and
maintenance costs. Benefit consisting of increased rental value of abuting
properties in a similar upgrading component implemented mostly in 1984-1986
under the First Urban Development Project yielded IERRs of 71%. Because of
the depressed housing market, and unreliability  of data, however, the
benefits to the residents have been conservatively estimated to be the
municipal cost recovery with a 20% delinquency rate (twice the currently
observed rate for the ongoing projects).
Landslide Control
5.        The IERR for the landslide control component is 24%.  The econom-
ic analysis for this component has been made on the basis of economic cost
of civil works and maintenance, and economic benefits consisting of savings
of damage to property. The underlying assumptici for this analysis is that
risks and property damage are foreseeable. This is a reasonable assumption
in La Paz today because a) the complete ten-year statistical record of
landslide and flood occurrences and damages provides an adequate basis for
estimation, and b) only works to prevent imminent disasters, which are
easier to define, have been included in the project.  Economic benefits
only include properties and infrastructure in the immediate and direct area
of influence of project works, with no indirect or medium term benefits for
adjacent areas.  Savings are categorized in total reconstruction, partial
and minor repairs to each type of housing of the beneficiary area. Mainte-
nance costs (13% per year of cumulative investments) include maintenance of
project investments and of other municipal infrastructure necessary to
prevent long term damage to project area.
Solid Waste Management and Community Education
6.         The combined IERR for these two components is 44%;  it has been
computed on the basis of the economic costs for both components and quanti-
fiable benefits accruing from the solid waste management. Although commun-
ity education is relevant to all physical components of the project, it is
particularly important for the success of the solid waste collection and
disposal improvement.  Maintenance for the combined components is 12% of
solid waste investment.   Benefits for the solid waste component include
improved health condition, better rainwater drainage and the diminution of
pollution to the environment; currently the city generates about 500 tons
of solid waste daily, collection covers only 26%, and final disposition is
inappropriate.   Also, industrial pollution  by small industries and the



- 47 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3
slaughterhouse, and hygiene conditions in public places where food is
prepared and consumed are major problems generating gastrointestinal and
infectious diseases.   Up to 60% of the solid waste will be collected by
1992 and its disposition will be imnproved. Bromatological and microbiolog-
ical analysis .ill be performed every year for the food sold in about
17,000 registered establishments in the city. Also, the revised pollution
legislation will be enforced. Benefits from the project have been conser-
vatively estimated to be the municipal cost recovery of the garbage
collection and hygiene control.



- 48 -
ANNEX 12
Table 1
BOLIVIA
LA PAZ N MICIPAL DFVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis and SensitivitZ Analysis
% of                        I P R R
Project
Component           Cost       EIRR    Cost Overrun Benefits Lower
20%           20%
Municipal Management           28       13*         PA            NA
Urban 'Pransport               29       48          40            39
Urban UTpgrading               13       33          27            2S
Landslide Control              17       24          NA            NA
Solid Waste Management         13       44          35            30
and Community Fducation
Total Project             j  100   |  32   |    21               20
O Quantifiable benefits only represent a part of real economic benefits
accruing from this component.



MAP SECTION



68°                                                     o4-                                              B R A Z L-----       POPULATION DENSITY 1976
BOLIVIA                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Persons oar square kilometer,
B 0  L I V  I A                                                                                           0-  1.  9o es959rq19.3 i3°8&6er
LA PAZ MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTI\0CoT-co
POPULATION   AND   CITIES                                                                                             --De:aorert   boundaries
pf-'RU                                    l s  nte-rnat:onai boundoanes
PERU2j   ~'   8  f  N  J     - >      'tMETRS 0  100 200 3.0
(PAZ  \   Trimdod        \                MILES 0    1SO  200
)COCHA.  !'
A .                                                                       S+  f  w  °hoAMBA'  c s uz         B R A Z I L
3 ,f +   >  i.  j  5   Oruro°)N.. (  Santa Cruz
.7  -~~~~~~~~~~~---'o ~~~~~~~~~~~PC 70CSf 1A
-   -~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ,.  IBERAtTA                                                                     PARA G U AY~~~~~~UG ISA A  
/Dt  R  >  /   X                                    ] {   i , jitsie                     g---lCHILE
kX                                                                         hARGE
~~~~~~~~~~~
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F"                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A',. .:   .  
14'.                                                             ~   
Lh Y        V.-.                                                              ,.J.&             p ,
~~~~~~7
~~~-~~~--                    a.-.~~~-4'7~
z~~~                                       BAI
~~~~~~~~~    P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR           



| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- B   A  I
::W+:;:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%2
*-   ~~~-  ;  *  b  " f sk,4Sm \ ! / X~~~~~~~q                 A    .
-o.;   st_   }  <   .:,   ;   ,,   {,       '9'  q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15
Gu eI .  ,S?;, 
:es. F s  .Ly           5' A>>o   \O_,_ 
4:  >w  v  tt ns_ s \. . 2 t | \ Ct J~VN
> .s-tv . A ~~R GENvSINA    P;5
_  * t e .          *                                            z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
gi  h  7  o8  z  <  = j.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s



B O i
LA PAZ MUNICIPAL C
INCOME AND PROJECT AREAS                                                                                                   Dl
0
Approx
AVERAGE MON-THLY FAMILY N-MCOME                          t .
t   PROJECT AREAS                                IN U.S DOOlAR EQI!vALENTS                             PERU
I  ALTO NORTH                                                                                               L PAZ
II  ALTO SOUTH                               I6  BOLIVIA
tIt  SLOPES WEST                              60
IV  SLOPES NORTH                          _        SCHlE>  r\AS
V   SLOPES EAST
/ ARGENTINA
!



V I A
,VELOPMENT PROJECT
ICT BOUNDARicS                                                                LANDSLIDING RISK AND SLOPE
'NATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RETERS
ate Scale
.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
AREAS OF LANDSLIDING RISKS
SLOPES         %
VERY '.TEEP   OVER 35%
STEEP       15 35%                                                           '
RAG,AY                                      MEDIUM      10. 15%                                                          $' X   f      t
~;3] ROLLING       LESS THAN 10%
A                       Ii
jURJ`UAy                                                                                                                     'VIf CZWo
JUNE 1987



