Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1842 BO
(La Paz Municipal Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 7, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1842 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Municipality of La Paz (La Paz) 
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower shall 
make available to La Paz the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower has requested from the Government of Spain a grant (the 
Spanish Grant) in an amount equivalent to 50,000,000 Pesetas, to assist in  financing 
training under Part A.1 of the Project on the terms and conditions  to be set forth in 
the agreement (the Spanish Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Government of Spain;
(D)
the Borrower has requested from the Government of France, a grant  (the 
French Grant) in an amount equivalent to approximately $600,000, to assist in 
Page  2
financing Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth 
in the agreement (the French Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Government of France;
(E)
the Borrower has requested from the Government of the Netherlands, a 
grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an amount equivalent to approximately 1,240,000 
Netherlands Florins, to assist in financing Part A.4 of the Project  on the terms and 
conditions to be set forth in the agreement (the Netherlands Grant Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the Government of the Netherlands;
(F)
the Borrower has obtained from the German Technical Cooperation Agency 
(GTZ), a grant (the GTZ Grant) in an amount equivalent to 2,679,000 German Marks, to 
assist in financing regulation of the Irpavi Achumani river  basin (Part C.2 of the 
Project), on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the GTZ Grant 
Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and the Federal Republic of Germany and 
dated January 16, 1987, as the same may be revised from time to time; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions  set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement (as hereinafter  defined) of even date herewith 
between the Association and La Paz;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement with the modification that the last 
sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and La 
Paz, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,  and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
June 12, 1986 and August 25, 1986, between the Borrower and the  Association, as 
amended and supplemented by letter dated April 28, 1987 and  confirmed by the Borrower 
on June 12, 1987;
(c)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and La Paz pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.07 of the 
Project Agreement;
(f)
"EEVV" means the Municipal Enterprise for Urban Services of Medellin, 
Colombia;
(g)
"Twinning Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between La 
Paz and EEVV for purposes of carrying out Part C.3 of the Project, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 (b) of the Project Agreement;
(h)
"Project Office" means the unit within the Planning Office of La Paz, 
which shall monitor and coordinate the carrying out of the Project and  which shall be 
maintained pursuant to Section 2.09 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(i)
"National Tax Reform" means the fiscal system established by the Ley de 
Reforma Tributaria No. 843 of the Borrower, dated May 20, 1986;
Page  3
(j)
"IMP" means the investment and modernization program of La Paz, certain 
components of which are included in the Project, including a timetable for 
implementation of the IMP, provided by the Borrower to the Association by letter of 
even date herewith;
(k)
"El Alto" means the Municipality of El Alto, Bolivia;
 
(l)
"El Alto Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between La Paz 
and El Alto pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(m)
"Municipal Law" means Ley Organica de Municipalidades of January 10, 1985 
of the Borrower;
(n)
"national currency" means the unit of currency of the Borrower;
 
(o)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's central bank;
 
(p)
"Municipal Training Institute" means the institute created by La Paz 
pursuant to Municipal Ordinance No. 10/87, dated February 14, 1987, for the  purpose 
of strengthening the various departments of La Paz through training and technical 
assistance;
(q)
"Personnel Policy" means the policy of La Paz with respect to its  
municipal employees, including management and compensation systems, referred to in 
Section 2.10 (a) and (b) of the Project Agreement;
(r)
"Project Specialists" means managerial and technical specialists required 
to carry out the Project employed by La Paz at the level of  department head or above 
and acceptable to the Association;
(s)
"Project Coordinator" means the head of the Project Office, referred to 
in Section  2.09 (b) of the Project Agreement; and
(t)
"La Paz Procurement Manual" means the manual for procurement for the 
Project referred to in Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement  between the Borrower and the 
Association, in consultation with La Paz, for amounts paid by La Paz for expenditures 
made, or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in  accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the  amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and La 
Paz of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
Page  4
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on November 15 and May 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 1997, and  ending May 15, 2022. Each 
installment to and including the installment  payable on May 15, 2007, shall be one 
and one-fourth of one percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and  after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not  yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such  revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Central Bank is designated as representative of the  Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be  taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end,  without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement shall:
(i)
cause La Paz to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement, all the obligations of La Paz therein set 
forth; and
(ii)
take all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
La Paz to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
Page  5
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall transfer the proceeds of the Credit to La Paz for 
purposes of carrying out the Project under a Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, to be entered into between the Borrower and  La Paz and which shall 
include the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign,  amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of  the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services,  plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance, and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by La Paz pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take such measures as shall be appropriate to 
assist La Paz in carrying out the IMP, as the same may be revised from time to time by 
La Paz with the prior agreement of the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, annually at a time requested by the  
Association, and through completion of the Project: (a) review the implementation of 
the revenue sharing provisions of the National Tax Reform, with the Association; and 
(b) take such measures as the Association may reasonably request, within the legal 
framework of the National Tax Reform, to improve or accelerate such revenue sharing.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to assist La Paz in 
complying with the cost recovery provisions set forth in Section 3.05 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with  consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices, the operations, resources  and expenditures in 
respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
said accounts and the audit thereof and said records as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, separate records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
Page  6
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure referred to in this paragraph (c) and submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
La Paz shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that La Paz will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(c)
the Municipal Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of La Paz to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction over La Paz shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of La Paz or for the 
suspension of its operations;
(e)
the National Tax Reform shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of La Paz to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(f)
any party to the Subsidiary Agreement shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations thereunder;
(g)
the Spanish Grant Agreement or the French Grant Agreement or the  
Netherlands Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by January 30, 1988, 
or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however,  that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(h)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Spanish Grant, the French Grant, the Netherlands Grant or 
the GTZ Grant or any other loan or grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant respectively to the terms of the Spanish Grant 
Agreement, the French Grant Agreement, the Netherlands Grant 
Agreement or the GTZ Grant Agreement; or
(B)
any loan made to the Borrower for financing of the Project 
shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or acceleration of maturity 
Page  7
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraph (a), (f) or (g) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after  notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this  
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (h) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of  Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower 
and La Paz;
(b)
that La Paz has taken all actions referred to in Section 2.03 (b) of the 
Project Agreement; and
(c)
that La Paz has established the Project Account and deposited therein an 
amount equivalent to at least $125,000.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
is legally binding upon, La Paz in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and La Paz in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that all necessary actions have been taken by La Paz to ensure that the 
La Paz Procurement Manual is lawful under the laws of the Borrower and La Paz, and is 
legally binding upon La Paz in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date November 5, 1987, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years  after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the  Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Page  8
Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar No. 582
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
MINFIN
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Illanes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 5,833,000       100% of foreign
     under Parts B,                              expenditures and
     C.1, C.2 and                                78% of local
     C.3 of the                                  expenditures
     Project
(2)  Goods under                 1,166,500       100% of foreign
     Parts A, B                                  expenditures and
     and C of the                                78% of local
     Project                                     expenditures
(3)  Technical assis-            1,945,000       100% of foreign
     tance, including                            expenditures and
Page  9
     consultants'                                78% of local
     services and                                expenditures
     training under
     Parts A, B and C
     of the Project
(4)  Personnel                     389,000       100% of incre-
     management                                  mental Project
     improvement                                 Specialists costs
     under Part A.2                              during 1987; and
     of the Project                              100% of incre-
                                                 mental Project
                                                 Specialists costs
                                                 during 1988
(5)  Refunding of                1,166,500       Amounts due
     Project Pre-                                pursuant to
     paration                                    Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                     of this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                 1,200,000
          TOTAL
                            SDR 11,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental Project Specialists costs" means monthly salary 
expenditures for Project Specialists, acceptable to the Association,  over and above 
salary expenditures for such Project Specialists incurred in January 1987.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made for:
(a)
payments made for expenditures eligible under Categories (1) through (4) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,166,500, may be made  on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after February 20, 1987;
(b)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, payments made for 
expenditures eligible under Category (4) incurred during 1987, unless the Association 
shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that the actions 
required to be taken by La Paz during 1987 to carry out the IMP have been taken and 
provided that payments made for such expenditures shall not exceed one-half (1/2) of 
the total amount allocated to Category (4); and
(c)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, payments made for 
expenditures eligible under Category (4) incurred during 1988, unless the Association 
shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that the actions 
required to be taken by La Paz during 1988 to carry out the IMP have been taken.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) strengthen the institutional, 
managerial and fiscal capacity of La Paz; (ii) promote municipal investment, the 
provision of basic municipal services, and the maintenance of urban infrastructure; 
and (iii) alleviate the effects of economic stabilization and adjustment on the 
population of the City of La Paz.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  10
Part A.
Municipal Management Improvement
 
1.
Administrative Reorganization Program
 
Improvement of municipal and administrative organizational structure; 
decentralization of and creating autonomous enterprises for selected municipal 
activities; computerization of records and accounts; improving responsiveness  and 
service levels to the public; and acquisition and utilization of data management and 
office equipment.
2.
Personnel Management System and Training Program
 
Implemention of a new and strengthened personnel management system, and 
developing in-house training capacity.
3.
Financial Management Improvement Program
 
Implemention of computerized accounting systems to improve budgeting, financial 
and investment planning, and management information and control, including 
establishing cost and revenue centers for services and direct user charges.
4.
Municipal Cadastre
 
Improved application of the municipal cadastre to increase revenues from 
property taxes and improve development planning and urban service management, 
including updating and improving registration of urban property, revising assessment 
procedures, adjusting tax rates and improving the billing and collection system.
Part B.
Urban Transport
 
Rehabilitation of the main thoroughfares; improvements to the street network and 
traffic lights; design and enforcement of traffic and parking  systems; construction 
of bus terminals; and establishment of a maintenance  system for municipal equipment, 
including provision of maintenance facilities, equipment and spare parts.
Part C.
Urban Development and Infrastructure Improvement
 
1.
Urban Upgrading
 
Provision of basic infrastructure including water drainage and pedestrian 
walkways, in approximately nineteen selected neighborhoods, with community 
participation.
2.
Landslide Control
 
Construction of flood and erosion control works along drainage basins, including 
landslide prevention works; institution of land use regulations and procedures to 
prevent irregular settlements; and establishment of an early warning system and 
emergency assistance procedures for flooding and landslides.
3.
Solid Waste Management
 
Design and implementation of a garbage collection and disposal system and street 
cleaning system; establishment of a laboratory of bromatology and sanitation control; 
decentralization of the solid waste and sanitation management system; repair and 
maintenance of trash collection and compaction vehicles, including provision of spare 
parts therefor.
4.
Community Education
 
Establishment and implementation of a pilot community education program covering 
urban services, civic duties and responsibilities and community  participation, 
including radio campaigns, and an experimental curriculum on community education in 
five pilot elementary schools.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
Page  11
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to  the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $900,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw  from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as  shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from  the Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence  
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the  
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of  this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association  when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
Eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall  follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
Page  12
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if  the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account 
and immediate cancellation.
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Agreement
The Borrower and La Paz shall enter into a written agreement satisfactory to the 
Association, that shall provide the terms and conditions for the transfer of the 
proceeds of the Credit from the Borrower to La Paz and for  the repayment of a portion 
of such funds to the Borrower including, inter alia, provisions that:
(i)
for purposes of carrying out technical assistance under the 
Project the Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, the amounts 
set forth under Categories (3) and (4) of the Table included in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (as amended from time 
to time), as such amounts are withdrawn from the Credit Account 
from time to time as reimbursement of expenditures eligible for 
financing under the Project; provided, however, that the aggregate 
amount so transferred as a grant shall not exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 2,960,000; and
(ii)
the Borrower shall on-lend to La Paz the proceeds of the Credit, 
other than such proceeds transferred as a grant pursuant to the 
immediately preceding clause (i), for purposes of carrying out the 
Project in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
(a)
Interest Rate. A fixed interest rate of eight and one-half 
percent (8.5%) per annum shall be paid on the principal 
amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
(b)
Currency. On-lent proceeds of the Credit shall be 
denominated in dollars and repaid to the Borrower in 
national currency, at the official rate of exchange in 
effect on the date that each payment is made.
(c)
Amortization. On-lent proceeds of the Credit shall be 
amortized over a period of twenty years from the date of 
on-lending.
