CREDIT NUMBERr2 BO
Project Agreement
(La Paz Municipal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
MUNICIPALITY OF LA PAZ
Dated                               , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER      BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             r7                , 1987 between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
the MUNICIPALITY OF LA PAZ (La Paz).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million seven
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,700,000) on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that La Paz agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement; and
(B) by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and La Paz, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to La Paz
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agree-
ment; and
WHEREAS La Paz, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of La Paz
Section 2.01. La Paz declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out the Project and
conduct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial and


﻿- 2 -
managerial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
personnel and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Section 2.02. La Paz shall enter into, and duly perform all
of its obligations under, the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, La Paz shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of changing, assigning,
amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
(b) La Paz shall prepare, issue and put into effect, a
manual, satisfactory to the Association and consistent with the
Guidelines referred to in Section I, Part A.1, and Section II of
the Schedule to this Agreement, setting forth the procedures that
shall be followed and conditions that shall be applied by La Paz
in the procurement of goods, works and consultants' services for
the Project (the La Paz Procurement Manual).
Section 2.04. La Paz shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.05. Without limitation to or restriction upon its
other obligations under this agreement and the Development Credit
Agreement, La Paz shall:
(a) carry out the IMP in accordance with the timetable
stated therein, as the same may be revised from time to time with
the prior agreement of the Association; and
(b) review the progress of implementing the IMP with the
Association on an annual basis.
Section 2.06. In accordance with and subject to the provi-
sions of the Development Credit Agreement, La Paz shall:


﻿- 3 -
(a) enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, with El Alto for purposes of coordination and cooperation in
connection with the Project;
(b) enter into a Twinning Agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, with EEVV providing for the assistance of EEVV to La
Paz in the carrying out of Part C.3 of the Project; and
(c) exercise its rights under the El Alto Agreement and the
Twinning Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower, the Association and La Paz, and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, La Paz shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
provision of the El Alto Agreement or the Twinning Agreement.
Section 2.07. La Paz shall:
(a) establish, and maintain through the Closing Date, in
a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, a Project Account
in national currency, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association;
(b) make payments out of the Project Account exclusively for
expenditures for goods, works, consultants services and personnel
costs required for the Project;
(c) deposit into the Project Account: (A) an initial deposit
of the equivalent of $125,000; (B) at monthly intervals, beginning
the month after the establishment of the Project Account, an
amount equal to the aggregate of payments made during the previous
month for expenditures under the Project not financed from the
proceeds of the Spanish Grant, French Grant, Netherlands Grant or
GTZ Grant; and (C) any additional amounts necessary to maintain a
minimum balance in such account of the equivalent of $125,000 or
another amount acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.08. (a) La Paz shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement, the execution of the
El Alto Agreement, the Twinning Agreement and the IMP, as well as
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) La Paz shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by La Paz of its obligations under this


﻿Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the El Alto Agreement, the
Twinning Agreement and the IMP.
Section 2.09. La Paz shall: (a) maintain through completion
of the Project, a project office with facilities, employees,
management staff and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association for purposes of implementing, coordinating,
supervising and evaluating the Project; and
(b) at all times until completion of the Project, provide
such Project Office with adequate personnel, including a Project
Coordinator acceptable to the Association, funds, resources and
facilities to carry out its responsibilities under the Project.
Section 2.10. La Paz shall:
(a) develop, implement and apply a personnel policy,
satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose of improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of its staff;
(b) from time to time, as reasonably requested by the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association on the implementation
and application of such Personnel Policy;
(c) provide to the Association, information with respect to
the qualifications and experience of any proposed replacement of a
Project Specialist, prior to such replacement taking place; and
(d) not replace the Project Coordinator unless the Associa-
tion shall have expressed no objection to the qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment of the proposed
replacement.
Section 2.11. La Paz shall at all times, until completion of
the Project, provide the Municipal Training Institute with
adequate personnel, funds, resources and facilities to carry out
its functions.
Section 2.12. Without limitation to its obligations under the
Project and IMP, La Paz shall: (a) not later than December 31,
1987, furnish to the Association, a program satisfactory to the
Association, including a timetable for implementation thereof, for
the purposes of improving its administrative and organizational
structure, decentralizing and creating autonomous enterprises for
selected municipal activities, taking into account efficiency,
available resources, and the provisions of the IMP; and (b)
promptly carry out such program in accordance with the agreed
timetable.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.13. Without limitation to its obligations under the
Project and IMP, La Paz shall undertake a program, satisfactory to
the Association, to improve its capacity to maintain, repair and,
if appropriate, replace public works and buildings, equipment,
machinery, roads, transportation systems and any other items
constituting the urban infrastructure system of La Paz.
Article III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) La Paz shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including separate records and accounts adequate to reflect the
operations resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) La Paz shall:
(i) have the accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section), and the Project Account, for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited;
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including a review
and commentary of such auditors regarding the per-
formance of La Paz in implementing measures to
improve revenue generation, municipal accounting
procedures and internal budgetary control; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, La Paz shall:


﻿-6-
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable, the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the state-
ments of expenditure referred to in this paragraph
(c) and submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, c:n be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
Section 3.02 La Paz shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the various currencies used in the implementation of the
Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, La Paz shall not:
(i) incur any debt from and after December 31, 1987,
and through December 31, 1989, unless the current
revenues of La Paz for the fiscal year immediately
preceding the date of such incurrence or for the
twelve-month period ending on the date of such
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least two and eight-tenths (2.8) times the
estimated maximum debt service requirement of La
Paz for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of
La Paz, including debt to be incurred; and
(ii) incur any debt after December 31, 1989, unless the
current revenues of La Paz for the fiscal year


﻿-7-
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence
or for the twelve-month period ending on the date
of such incurrence, whichever is greater, shall be
at least three and three-tenths (3.3) times the
estimated maximum debt service requirement of La
Paz for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of
La Paz, including debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of La Paz
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) The term "current revenues" means revenues from all
sources related to municipal operations, including
revenues derived from revenue sharing by the
Borrower, but excluding revenues related to capital
transactions.
(iv) The term "capital transactions" means sales, ex-
changes or other dispositions of fixed assets.
(v) The term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, La Paz shall produce:
(i) for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on December 31, 1987, and through December
31, 1989, funds from current account surplus
equivalent to not less than 28% of the annual
average of La Paz's capital expenditures incurred,
or expected to be incurred, for that year and the
next following fiscal year;
(ii) for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on December 31, 1989, funds from current
account surplus equivalent to not less than 35% of
the annual average of La Paz's capital expenditures
incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year
and the next following year.
(b) Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, La Paz
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by La Paz and satisfac-
tory to the Association, review whether it would meet the require-
ments set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the
next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association
the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that La Paz would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for La Paz's fiscal years
covered by such review, La Paz shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the struc-
ture or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "current account surplus" means the
difference between current revenues and current
expenditures.
(ii) The term "current expenditures" means all expendi-
tures related to municipal operations, including
administration and adequate maintenance, debt
service requirement, taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, if any (excluding provision for deprecia-
tion, if any, and other non-cash operating
charges), increase in working capital other than
cash, and other cash outflows, but excluding
capital expenditures.


﻿-9-
(iii) The terms "current revenues" and "capital trans-
actions" as used in the definition of "current
revenues", shall have the same meanings as set
forth in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
(iv) The term "debt service requirements" shall have the
same meaning as set forth in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement.
(v) The term "capital expenditures" means all expen-
ditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
including interest charged to construction and
related to operations.
Section 3.05. La Paz shall, until completion of the Project
establish and enforce a rate structure or other user charge system
designed to achieve recovery of the full capital, maintenance and
operation costs of: (i) its traffic signaling, parking system, bus
terminals and sanitation services; and (ii) its upgrading of basic
infrastructure, including without limitation, water drainage and
pedestrian walkways.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of La Paz thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify La Paz of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Municipality:
Mayor of La Paz
Municipalidad de La Paz
Mercado Esquina Col6n
La Paz, Bolivia
Telex:
3591 MUNIPAZBV
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of La Paz or by La Paz on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its Mayor, or by such other person or persons as the
Mayor of La Paz shall designate in writing, and La Paz shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day, month and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           Vif WM Wr S41 d
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
MUNICIPALITY OF LA PAZ
By               Aut horm e Re- p e t
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement of Goods, Works
and Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the procurement of civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more, shall be awarded through international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth
in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one news-
paper of general circulation in the Borrower's country and,
in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."


﻿- 13 -
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single cur-
rency widely used in international trade and specified in the
bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts should be grouped into
packages for purposes of bidding.
3.   Bidders for civil works contracts estimated to cost more than
the equivalent of $1,000,000 shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local Competitive Bidding
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$250,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with competitive bidding procedures, locally advertised, satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   Local Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000
each, may be procured under contracts awarded to suppliers of such
goods on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
Section I and Section II, paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines, or with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Direct Contracting
Contracts for goods which are proprietary goods or for which
there is a sole source of supply worldwide, may be purchased by
direct contracting with the supplier or manufacturer, in accord-
ance with procedures acceptable to the Associa-tion.
4.   Force Account
Minor civil works may be carried out by La Paz under force
account procedures acceptable to the Association, up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000.


﻿- 14 -
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.3 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and civil
works procured under the provisions of Part A.1 hereof; and (ii)
the first two contracts procured under the provisions of either
Part B.1 hereof or Part B.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contracts required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraph 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this
Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a)
and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Asso-
ciation has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment and Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist La Paz in carrying out the Project, La Paz
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, terms
of reference and terms and conditions of employment shall be


﻿- 15 -
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Developnent Association.
FOR SECRETARY


