Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4089-VN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(
Targeted Budget Support for National Education for All Plan 
 Implementation Program) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 12, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4089-VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 2005, 2005, between SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) th
e
Association has received the Borrower’s Education 
Development Strategic Plan for 2001-2010 and the Borrower’s National Education for 
All Plan as approved by the Prime Minister in July 2003; and said Strategic Plan and Plan 
set forth a strategic framework for the long-term development of the Education sector, 
establish the national education goals and targets envisaged in the Borrower’s Socio-
economic Development Strategy 2001-2010 and Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and 
Growth Strategy, and express the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of said Plans; 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Program described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Program; 
(C) 
the Borrower intends to seek from Belgium through the Directorate 
General for Development Cooperation (DGDC), Canada through the Canadian 
International Development Agency (CIDA), the European Commission (EC), New 
Zealand through the New Zealand Agency for International Development (NZAID) and 
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland through its Department for 
International Development (DFID) (collectively and together with the Association, the 
Targeted Budget Support Partners or TBS Partners), grants in an aggregate amount 
approximately equivalent to seventy-eight million Dollars ($78,000,000) to assist in the 
financing of the Program on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement or 
arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower and each of DGDC, CIDA, the EC, 
NZAID and DFID (collectively, the Co-financing Arrangements, and individually, a Co-
financing Arrangement); 
(D) 
the Borrower and the TBS Partners expect to enter into a Memorandum 
of Understanding (the MOU) to provide for common procedures on procurement, 
disbursement, cooperation and exchange of information in respect of this Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below to this Agreement (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for 
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on the goods or 
services to be financed under the Credit, or on their importation, 
manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing of such taxes is 
subject to the Association’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency 
in the use of the proceeds of its credits.  To that end, if the Association 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or 
in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or 
referred to in respect of such item in the Development Credit 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Association.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement 
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“BoET” means a Bureau of Education and Training at the 
district level, and any successor thereto. 
(b) 
“DoET” means a Department of Education and Training at the 
provincial level, and any successor thereto. 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
(c) 
“Education National Targeted Program” and “Education NTP” 
mean the Borrower’s National Targeted Program for the Education sector in 
effect since 2001, which is a channel for disbursement of funds 
complementary to regular state budget funding, earmarked for specific 
priorities in the Education sector, namely: (i) illiteracy elimination, 
consolidation of universal primary education and achievement of universal 
lower secondary education; (ii) renovation of the curriculum, textbooks and 
teaching methods; (iii) computer training and introduction of information 
technology to schools; (iv) upgrading of infrastructure of teacher training 
institutions and teacher qualifications; (v) support education for ethnic 
minorities and disadvantaged regions; (vi) development of school 
infrastructure; and (vii) strengthening vocational training capacity. 
(d) 
“EFA” means Education for All and covers four target areas, 
namely, (i) early childhood care and education; (ii) primary education; (iii) 
lower secondary education; and (iv) non-formal education for out-of-school 
youth and adults with low educational levels. 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year which is 
the calendar year. 
(g) 
“Foreign Exchange Account” and “FE Account” mean the 
foreign exchange account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
(h) 
“FSQL” means Fundamental School Quality Levels, as set forth 
in Decision 48/2003/QD-BGD &
 
DT, dated October 24, 2003 of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Education and Training, which are minimum service delivery 
standards measured by physical infrastructure, availability and quality of 
instructional materials, teaching staff qualifications, in-service professional 
development, school organization and management and school-community 
linkages. 
(i) 
“Inter-ministerial Instruction for the Education NTP 2006-
2010” means the Instruction to be issued jointly by the Borrower’s Ministries 
of Education and Training and of Finance, establishing the operational rules 
and requirements under the Education NTP applicable for the period 2006-
2010, and referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(j) 
“Management Committee for the Education NTP” means the 
committee established pursuant to Decision 4884/QD-BGD & DT-TCCB of 
MoET (as defined below) dated August 30, 2004, responsible for assisting the 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
Minister of MoET to administer and implement the Education NTP, and 
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(k) 
“MoET” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and 
Training, and any successor thereto. 
(l) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any 
successor thereto. 
(m) 
“MPI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and 
Investment, and any successor thereto. 
(n) 
“National Education for All Plan” and “National EFA Plan” 
mean the strategic framework for long-term education development approved 
by Prime Minister’s Decision 872/CP-KG of July 2, 2003. 
(o) 
“National EFA Committee” means the committee established in 
March 2004, pursuant to Decision 1609/QD-BGD & DT-TCCB of MoET, to 
coordinate the implementation of the National EFA
 
Plan. 
(p) 
“NTP-eligible Provinces” means those Provinces of the 
Borrower eligible from time to time to participate in the Education NTP, and 
any successors thereto; and an “NTP-eligible Province” means any of such 
Provinces. 
(q) 
“Pilot Provinces” mean the Borrower’s Provinces of Yen Bai, 
Hoa Binh, Ha Tinh, Quang Binh, Dong Thap and Ben Tre, and such other 
Provinces as may be mutually agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association, and any successors thereto. 
(r) 
“Program” means the set of activities described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and constitutes the Project for purposes of the General 
Conditions.  
(s) 
“SBV” means State Bank of Vietnam, the Borrower’s central 
bank, and any successor thereto. 
(t) 
“Selected Sub-components” means the priority areas of the 
Education NTP set forth in clauses (i), (ii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of sub-paragraph 
(c) of this Section 1.01, supported under Part A of the Program. 
(u) “TBS” 
means 
targeted 
budget 
support. 
ARTICLE II 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 33,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable costs of goods, works and training 
required for Part A of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit; or (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, to be 
paid) on account of withdrawals made by the Borrower to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and training required to meet the 
Association’s share, as determined from time to time, for the Selected Sub-
components of the Education NTP under Part A of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Program, 
through MOF, open and maintain a foreign exchange account in State Bank 
of Vietnam on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
a
sub-account thereof for each of the currencies specified by the TBS 
Partners.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Foreign Exchange Account, 
and in particular out of the Dollar sub-account of said Foreign Exchange 
Account, shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each 
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately 
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time 
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing 
September 15, 2015 and ending March 15, 2045.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on March 15, 2025 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower
’s per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association 
may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive 
Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of 
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided 
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so 
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform 
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Program 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Program as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Program through its Ministry of Education and Training and the NTP-eligible Provinces, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, management and education practices, and sound social and environmental 
standards acceptable to the Association, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Program. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Program in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and works required for Part A of the Program and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Program; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Education 
NTP and to the Program. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part II.2 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements), the Borrower shall: 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 (ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports are included in the audit for each fiscal 
year (or other period agreed to by the Association), referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 9 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth the sources and uses of funds for each Selected Sub-
component of the Education NTP, showing the actual and 
planned uses of funds, disaggregated by province; 
 
(ii) 
physical progress in the implementation of each Selected Sub-
component, showing the actual and planned implementation, 
disaggregated by province and by district; and 
 
(iii) 
the sources and uses of funds for Part B of the Program, 
explaining variances between the actual and planned uses of 
funds, and describing the progress in the implementation of said 
Part B and explaining the variances between the planned and 
actual implementation. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of Fiscal Year 2005, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of 
the first expenditure under the Program through the end of Fiscal Year 2005; thereafter, 
each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after 
each subsequent semester, and shall cover such semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the National 
EFA Plan, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b) 
the Borrower’s Education NTP and/or the Inter-ministerial Instruction 
for the Education NTP 2006-2010 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Program or the accomplishment of the objectives thereof or of the objectives of the 
National EFA Plan; 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or credit 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Program shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefore; or 
(B) any such credit shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii) 
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination of pre-maturing is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Program are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and 
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (c)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c)(ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has prepared and issued an Inter-ministerial Instruction for 
Education NTP for 2006-2010, acceptable to the Association, for application to the Pilot 
Page  13
-
11
-
11
Provinces, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
the Borrower has: (i) adopted sub-codes for sub-components of the 
Education NTP for the accounting system and (ii) completed the preparation of Treasury 
reporting format in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and 
(c) 
at least one of the Co-financing Arrangements between the Borrower and 
DFID and the Borrower and CIDA, for the financing of Part B of the Program, has been 
executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder have been fulfilled, except the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  14
-
12
-
12
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Governor, or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of 
Vietnam is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
 
49 Ly Thai To 
 
Hanoi 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
 
 412248 
  (84-4) 
825 
0612 
 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By 
/s/ Le Duc Thuy 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Klaus 
Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
I. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to such Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in the Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of Expenditures to be 
Financed
(1) Eligible Expenditures 
under the Education NTP 
for Fiscal Years 2005 
through 2008 
 
33,000,000 
 
Such amount of Eligible 
Expenditures as shall be 
agreed between the 
Borrower and the 
Association for any Fiscal 
Year  
 
TOTAL 
 
33,000,000 
 
========  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, 
(a) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures for goods, works 
and training, including recurrent expenditures, but excluding salaries and salary 
supplements for teachers or for civil servants, incurred by the NTP-eligible Provinces for 
the Selected Sub-components of the Education NTP, which are in excess of a threshold 
level for said Expenditures in a Fiscal Year (the “Threshold Level of Expenditure”); 
provided
,
however, that in respect of Fiscal Year 2005, the amount of “Eligible 
Expenditures” to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit means an amount 
equivalent to $2,500,000 of expenditures for goods, works and training, including 
recurrent expenditures, but excluding salaries and salary supplements for teachers or for 
civil servants, incurred by the Pilot Provinces for the Selected Sub-components of the 
Education NTP; and 
(b) 
the term “Threshold Level of Expenditure” means: (i) for Fiscal Year 
2006, unless otherwise agreed by the Association an amount resulting from an increase of 
about 10% in the amount of the central state budget allocated for Fiscal Year 2005 for 
purposes of the Education NTP; and (ii) for each of Fiscal Years 2007 and 2008, an 
amount established by the Association in consultation with the Borrower and 
communicated to the Borrower by no later than September 15 of the preceding year. 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures incurred in Fiscal Year 2005 prior to the 
date of issuance of the Inter-ministerial Instruction for Education NTP for 2006-2010 
applicable to the Pilot Provinces, in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (a); 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures incurred in Fiscal Years 2005 through 
2008 which have not been incurred in accordance with the terms, conditions and 
eligibility criteria specified in the applicable Inter-Ministerial Instruction; 
(c) 
payments made for goods, works or training which have not been 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and 
(d) 
payments made for expenditures for goods, works or training procured 
under a contract which the Association or any national or international financing 
institution or agency, other than the TBS Partners under their respective Co-financing 
Arrangements, shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other credit or grant. 
II. 
Foreign Exchange Account
1. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the FE 
Account, including the Dollar sub-account, has been opened in accordance with Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the FE Account in accordance with the provisions of this Part II. 
2. 
Each request for withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on the basis 
of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Selected Sub-
components of the Education NTP in the Pilot Provinces for the remainder of Fiscal Year 
2005 following the date of issuance of the Inter-ministerial Instruction for Education NTP 
2006-2010 in accordance with Section 6.01 (a). 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the FE Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part II.2 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the twelve-
month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
4. 
Payments out of the FE Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the FE Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part II.1 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the FE Account: 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part II.2 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements; 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the FE Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements. 
6. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the FE 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part II.1 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the FE Account may be 
made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify 
the Borrower of its determination. 
7. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the FE 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the FE Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to 
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the FE Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount of Credit 
proceeds on deposit in the FE Account will not be required to cover payments for 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
Eligible Expenditures during the twelve-month period following such determination, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the Credit proceeds on deposit in the FE Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  20
-
18
-
18
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Program 
The objectives of the Program are to assist the Borrower in the implementation of 
its National Education for All Plan through targeted budgetary support for Selected sub-
components of the Education National Targeted Program designed to enhance the quality 
of basic education, and through strengthening of the administration of the Education 
National Targeted Program. 
The Program consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives: 
Part A
:
Implementation of Fundamental School Quality Level standards
Support the implementation of Fundamental School Quality Level standards in 
schools which have not yet reached the minimum quality level, through the provision of 
targeted budgetary support. 
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Strengthen the capacity at the central level to administer the Education National 
Targeted Program. 
2. 
Strengthen the capacity at the provincial and district levels to implement the 
Education National Targeted Program through the strengthening of their planning, 
procurement and financial management capacities. 
3. 
Carry out implementation progress assessments, including financial and 
procurement audits, and monitoring and impact evaluation. 
 
*
*
*
The Program is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  21
-
19
-
19
S
CHEDULE 3 
Implementation  
Management of Education NTP
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the 
Program: 
(a) 
the Management Committee for the Education NTP within MoET, with 
representation from, inter alia, the Departments of Planning and Finance, of Personnel, 
and of various education levels, with such functions, responsibilities and powers as may 
be necessary to oversee the implementation of the Education NTP and coordinate the 
activities of all relevant agencies; and 
(b) 
the Planning and Finance Department within MoET provided with 
adequate resources, under the direction of experienced managers and staffed with 
competent personnel in sufficient numbers and with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association; said Department to be responsible for planning, monitoring 
and evaluating the implementation of the Education NTP. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause: 
(a) 
each NTP-eligible Province and district within such Province to maintain 
its respective Department of Education and Training or Bureau of Education and 
Training, as the case may be, staffed with competent personnel in sufficient numbers and 
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association to be responsible for 
developing the annual work plan under the Education NTP for said Province or district, 
as the case may be, including specific objectives and budgetary needs, proposed activities 
and expected outcomes; and 
(b) 
each NTP-eligible Province to maintain the Provincial NTP Steering 
Committee with such functions, responsibilities and powers to review the annual work 
plan prepared by the Department of Education and Training of said Province, and, upon 
receipt of the State-allocated budget, in turn to allocate such budget across the districts 
within the Province and across the Selected sub-components of the Education NTP, in 
accordance with the provisions of the applicable Inter-ministerial Instruction and in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association. 
Implementation
3. 
The Borrower shall, jointly through the Ministries of Education and Training and 
of Finance: 
(a) 
prepare and issue, for application to a number of Pilot Provinces, an 
Inter-ministerial Instruction for the Education NTP 2006-2010 acceptable to the 
Page  22
-
20
-
20
Association, setting forth specific instructions and requirements for the implementation 
of the Education NTP by provinces, districts and schools, including without limitation, in 
respect of: (i) budget allocations and outcomes, namely the reduction of FSQL deficits in 
schools; (ii) eligible expenditures, including menu of options to reduce FSQL deficits by 
district and school; (iii) reporting processes and requirements, including formats for 
identifying activities separately at provincial, district and school levels, and by specific 
sub-components of the Education NTP; and formats and timelines for financial 
expenditures reporting, financial monitoring reports and annual financial statements; (iv) 
auditing arrangements; and (v) guidelines on the dissemination of information regarding 
funding allocations under the Education NTP at the beneficiary level and on the 
participation of communities and/or social organizations in monitoring at the local level; 
(b) 
by no later than March 31, 2006, on the basis of the experience in the 
application of the Inter-Ministerial Instruction as set forth in sub-paragraph (a) above, 
prepare and issue an Inter-ministerial Instruction for the Education NTP 2006-2010 
acceptable to the Association for application to all NTP-eligible Provinces; and 
(c) 
thereafter implement, and cause to be implemented, said Instruction in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or 
waive said Circular or any part thereof without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
4. 
The Borrower shall establish accounting sub-codes for sub-components of the 
Education NTP, and develop Treasury reporting formats to enable the disaggregation of 
expenditures information by sub-components of the Education NTP and by province. 
5. 
No later than September 15 of each year, commencing in 2005, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a work program, with estimated budget therefor, for the 
Education NTP for the next succeeding fiscal year, consolidating therein the data from 
annual work plans which have been prepared and submitted by the NTP-eligible 
Provinces in accordance with the requirements of the Inter-ministerial Instruction, and 
reviewed and approved in accordance with the procedures and guidelines set forth in said 
Circular. 
6. 
The Borrower shall, through MoET, by no later than October 31, 2005, issue a 
guidance on procurement best practices to all NTP-eligible Provinces aimed at guiding 
the responsible implementing entities at the provincial, district and school levels towards 
applying those procurement practices consistent with government procedures and 
regulations which would be most conducive to economy, efficiency and transparency. 
7. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
annually carry out a procurement audit of the Education NTP through an 
independent entity acceptable to the Association, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association; 
Page  23
-
21
-
21
(b) 
by no later than June 30 of each year, commencing in 2006, provide to 
the Association for its review and comments, the report of such procurement audit and 
promptly review with the Association the recommendations presented in said report; and 
(c) 
thereafter, carry out workshops and training sessions for the NTP-eligible 
Provinces to disseminate the lessons from such audit and implement the 
recommendations thereof, giving due consideration to the view of the Association 
thereon. 
8. 
The Borrower shall, by no later than November 30 of each year, commencing in 
2005: 
(a) 
carry out under terms of reference acceptable to the Association a 
performance review of each district within the NTP-eligible Provinces, showing the 
status of such district against baseline lists of FSQL-related shortfalls; and 
(b) 
provide to the Association for its review and comments, the report of 
such review together with the recommendations deriving therefrom, and thereafter, carry 
out such recommendations giving due consideration to the Association’s view thereon. 
Monitoring and Reporting 
9. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
and of the objectives of the Education NTP; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about February 15 and August 15 of each year, 
commencing in February 15, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 9, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program and of the Education NTP during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the Education NTP, and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
promptly following each report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this 
paragraph 9, review with the Association such report, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof and of the Education NTP, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  24
-
22
-
22
S
CHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I. 
General 
A. 
All goods and works and services shall be procured in accordance with: (i) 
generally accepted procurement principles and good practices as set forth in Section I of 
the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits”, dated May 2004, and with 
those procedures and regulations of the Borrower which are applied in a manner 
consistent with the provisions of such Section; and (ii) the provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.  
B. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe the procurement 
method of particular contracts, have the meanings ascribed to them in the “Guidelines: 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004. 
C. 
Goods and works procured in accordance with this Schedule 4 shall constitute 
“Eligible Expenditures” for the purposes of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
National Competitive Bidding; Shopping; Direct Contracting
.
Goods and works 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, 
Shopping or Direct Contracting. The selection of procurement method and the procedures 
to be followed shall be those set forth in the Borrower’s Decree 88/1999/ND-CP dated 
September 1, 1999 as amended and supplemented by Decree 14/2000/ND-CP dated May 
5, 2000 and Decree 66/2003 /ND-CP dated June 12, 2003, with the following 
clarifications: 
(a) 
Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) through (e) below, 
procurement of goods and works shall be procured on the basis of 
competitive procedures. 
(b) 
Negotiations on prices and purchase terms shall not be allowed other 
than in exceptional circumstances, including the existence of unforeseen 
soil or site conditions in respect of contracts for works for school 
construction and the need for unforeseen reduction in the scope of works 
to be carried out. 
(c) 
Direct Contracting may be used for the procurement of textbooks and 
teacher guides from Provincial Books and Equipment Companies.  Direct 
Contracting may not be used for the procurements of works and other 
Page  25
-
23
-
23
goods other than in exceptional circumstances, including emergency 
situations (for example in the case where a natural disaster has occurred), 
the existence of only one supplier, and where considerations of 
standardization and/or technical compatibility with existing equipment 
arise. 
(d) 
Other than under force account in respect of civil works, State-owned 
enterprises dependent on MoET shall not participate in procurement 
conducted by MoET. 
(e) 
The basis for technically evaluating bids for goods and services shall be 
the “Pass/Fail” system. The “Merit-Point” system referred to in Sec. 29 
and 30 of Decree 88 may only be applied in exceptional circumstances. 
 
