                                       The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                          ReportNo: 31735-VN




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                     PROPOSEDCREDIT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 33 MILLION
                              (US$50.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                            SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                             FOR A

                    TARGETED BUDGET SUPPORTFOR NATIONAL
              EDUCATIONFOR ALL PLANIMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM

                                          May 18,2005




HumanDevelopmentSectorUnit
East Asia and PacificRegion




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective April 30,2005)
                                   Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
                                    VND 15,823 = US$ 1
                                    US$1.51209 = SDR1

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1    - December31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian DevelopmentBank                     NGO      Non-GovernmentalOrganizations
BoET     Bureauof EducationandTraining             NTP      NationalTargeted Program
BoF      Bureauof Finance                          NTPWG    NationalTargetedProgramWorking Group
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy               ODA      Official DevelopmentAssistance
CFAA     CountryFinancialAccountability Assessment OECD     Organizationof EconomicCooperation and
                                                            Development
CIDA     CanadianInternationalDevelopment Agency   PAD      ProjectAppraisalDocument
CPAR     CountryProcurementAssessment Report       PC       People'sCommittee
CPRGS    ComDrehensivePoverty Reductionand         PEDC     PrimaryEducationfor DisadvantagedChildren




                                                            Management
FMR      FinancialMonitoring Report                SRV      SocialistRepublicof Vietnam
FSQL     FundamentalSchoolQuality Level            TABMIS   Treasury andBudgetManagementInformation
                                                            System
IDA      InternationalDevelopmentAssociation       TBS      TargetedBudgetSupport
IFAPER   IntegratedFiduciaryAssessment andPublic   UNDP     UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgram
                                                                                          -
         ExpenditureReview
MTEF   IIMedium TermExpenditureFramework          IUNESCO  IUnitedNationsEducational,Scientific andCultural

MoET     Ministry of EducationandTraining          UNICEF   UnitedNationsChildren's Fund
MoF      Ministry of Finance                       UPE      UniversalPrimaryEducation
MOU      Memorandumof Understanding                VDG      VietnamDevelopmentGoals
MPI      Ministry of PlanningandInvestment




                                  Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                   Country ManagerDirector:            Klaus Rohland
                                 Sector Manager:       Christopher J. Thomas
                             Task Team Leader:         LuisBenveniste

                                                                                                       FOROFFICIALUSEONLY
                  VIETNAM: TAREGETEDBUDGETSUPPORTFORNATIONAL
                  EDUCATIONFORALL PLANIMPLEMENTATIONPROGRAM
                                                              CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                     Page

A STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE
 .                                                                                 ..................................................................  1
   1.    Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                 1
   2. Rationale for Donor involvement .......................................................................................                          2
   3 .   Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                                 3

B.    PROJECTDESCRIPTION                       ..................................................................................................      4
    1.   Lending instrument .............................................................................................................              4
   2 .   Project development objectives and key indicators ............................................................                                4
   3.    Project components .............................................................................................................              5
   4 .   Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design............................................................                                 8
   5.    Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                              9

C IMPLEMENTATION
  .                                    .........................................................................................................       10
    1.   Partnership arrangements ..................................................................................................                   10
   2. Institutional andimplementation arrangements................................................................                                     10
   3.    Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results.. ..............................................................                                 12
   4  .  Sustainability.....................................................................................................................
                     . .                                                                                                                               13
    5.   Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                              13
    6.   Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                            14

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
  .                                           ..................................................................................................       15
    1.   Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                        15
   2.    Technical...........................................................................................................................          16
    3. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................           17
   4.    Social.................................................................................................................................       18
    5.   Environment......................................................................................................................             19
   6.    Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................               20
   7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                            20

This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                               .........................................................       21

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                   .................28
Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring                      ........................................................................         29

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description          ......................................................................................          32

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................           39

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                .................................................................................           40

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                                          .....................................      46

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements              ......................................................................................           65

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                 .............................................................................           74

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................           81

Annex 11:Fundamental School Quality Levels                     .......................................................................          83

Annex 12: Vietnam Commune Map by Educational Achievement Groups                                                    ..........................   84

Annex 13: MainstreamingGender            ............................................................................................           85

Annex 14: Barriers to Educational Participation for Ethnic Minority Children                                                  .................88
Annex 15: Draft Inter-MinisterialInstruction for the Education NTP2006-2010                                                        ..............91
Annex 16: Project Preparationand Supervision                      .....................................................................         95

Annex 17: Documentsinthe Project File               .................................................................................           97

Annex 18: Statement of Loans and Credits               ...........................................................                             101

Annex 19: Country at a Glance      ...............................................................................................             103

            VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONAL EFA PLAN IMPLEMENTATION
                              PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT
                                   EASTASIA AND PACIFIC
                                           EASHD

1 Date: May 18,2005                            TeamLeader: LuisBenveniste
  CountryDirector: KlausRohland                Sectors: Primaryeducation (100%)
  Sector Director:EmmanuelY. Jimenez           Themes: EducationFor All (P)
  ProjectID: PO85260                           Environmentalscreening category: Not
                                               Required
I LendingInstrument:   Specific Investment     Safeguardscreeningcategory: Limitedimpact
  Credit (SIC)




  TotalBankfinancing (US$m.): US$50.00(Credit)
  Proposedterms: StandardIDA terms: 40-year maturitywith a 10-yeargrace period.
                                     FinancingPlan(US$m)
                   Source                      Local          Foreign           Total
  BORROWEURECIPIENT                             342.0            38.0            380.0
  INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT                       45.0             5.0             50.0
  ASSOCIATION
  BELGIUM                                         5.4             0.6              6.0
  CANADA                                          9.9             1.1             11.0
I EUROPEANCOMMISSION                             18.0             2.0             20.0
  NEW ZEALAND                                     2.7             0.3              3.0
  UNITEDKINGDOM                                  34.2             3.8             38.0
  Total:                                        457.2            50.8            508.0

  Borrower: Socialist Republic of Vietnam
  ResponsibleAgency: Ministryof EducationandTraining
  Address: 49 DaiCo Viet, Hanoi
            Socialist Republicof Vietnam
  Contact Person: Mr.NguyenVanNgu,Deputy Director PlanningandFinance Department
  Telephone : 84.4.869 1370
  Fax.         84.4.869 4085




                                              i

Project implementation period: Start: September 1,2005 End: December 31,2008
Expectedeffectiveness date: September 1,2005
Expectedclosing date: June 30,2009
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?     [ ]Yes [XINo
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                       [ ]Yes [XINO

Have these been approvedby Bank management?                                       [ ]Yes [XINO
[s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?        [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?     [XIYes [ ] N o
Project development objective: The project will assist the Borrower in the implementation of
its National Education for All Plan through targeted budgetary support for selected sub-
components of the Educational National TargetedProgram (NTP) designed to enhance the quality
of basic education, and through strengthening of the administration of the Education National
Targeted Program. During the life of the project, the share of schools achieving Fundamental
School Quality Levels (FSQL) will increase.         In addition, the project will also promote an
overarching policy framework in education finance, planning and governance that will act as an
enabling environment for improved service delivery.
Project description: There are two project components. Component 1 strives to support the
implementation of FSQL standards by channeling official development assistance into the
Education National Targeted Program. Component 2 provides technical assistance and capacity
buildingto strengthen the administration, implementation andevaluation of the Education NTP.
Project beneficiaries will be children attending schools being upgraded to FSQL and out-of-
school children who will be drawn into the education system through NTP interventions.
Activities are targeted to disadvantaged groups or areas, hence the beneficiary group will contain
a higher proportion of poor children and ethnic minorities than the population of Vietnam in
general.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? None

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: None

Board presentation: June 14,2005

Loadcredit effectiveness: September 1,2005

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
0   Maintain a Foreign Exchange Account, with sub-accounts to receive monies inthe currencies
    of TBS Partners.
0   MoET, DoETs and BoETs have the staff needed to handle the management, monitoring and
    reporting requirements of the Education NTP.


                                                  ii

Provide annual work programs no later than November 30 of every year.
Provide an annual performancereview of each district within the NTP-eligible provinces,
showing the status of such district against baseline lists of FSQL-related shortfalls no later
than June 30 of each year.
Provide Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) semi-annually no later than 45 days after the
endof each semester.
Provide annual financial statements and audit reports by an independent auditor no later than
June 30 of each year.
Submit annual procurement audits by an independent auditor no later than June 30 of each
year, while TBS Partners reserve the option of conducting post reviews in consultation with
SRV.
Issue guidance on procurement best practices by October 31,2005 aimed at guidingthe
responsible implementing entities at the provincial, district and school levels towards
applying those procurement practices consistent with government procedures and regulations
most conducive to economy, efficiency and transparency.
Organize mid-year supervisions and annual review meetings with IDA and other TBS
Partners to appraise NTPimplementation andprogress in achievement of project objectives.
For 2006 release to take place, issue an Inter-Ministerial Circular for the Education NTP
2006-2010 cycle andimplement a coding structure consistent with its provisions.
Provide a Inid-term review of the Education NTP2006-2010 implementation before the
project closing date.




                                             iii


A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Country andsector issues

Vietnam has demonstrated strong commitment to achieving universal basic education as a
foundational stone to social development and economic growth. This commitment i s clearly
formulated inthe Education Development Strategic Plan for 2001-2010 and the Comprehensive
Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy. A fully-costed National EducationFor All (EFA)
Action Planhas been approved inJuly 2003 by the Prime Minister andhas beenjointly reviewed
and endorsed by international partners andNon-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in
September 2003. The EFA Plan was deemed a credible strategic framework. Vietnam i s the
only country in the South East Asia region that has qualified to date for the EFA Fast Track
Initiative.

Duringthe past decade, Vietnam has accomplished notableprogress inthe field of education.
The primary net enrolment rate has increased from 86 percent in 1990 to 91 percent in 2003, the
dropout rate has declined from 12 percent to about 3 percent, the repetition rate from 9 percent to
less than 5 percent and the completion rate has increased from 47 percent to more than 75
percent.' However, a recent national school survey suggests a lower level of progress and i s
used as the baseline for this operation. Inaddition, Vietnam has also significantly developed
lower secondary education opportunities. The transition rate from primary to lower secondary
has increased from 78 percent to 88 percent and a majority of young Vietnamese has gained
access to nine years of basic education. The education sector's share of total public expenditure
in2003 was 17 percent.

However, significant challenges ineducational access and quality still remain. Barriers to
education access are concentrated in specific regions of Vietnam, where schooling conditions are
harder due to lack of adequate human resources, prevalence of vernacular languages, high
poverty incidence, lack of adequate financial resources, low resource mobilization ability at the
local level and the existence of smaller remote communities that tend to make unit costs of
education higher. An estimated 20 percent of ethnic minority children have no access to basic
education. It i s clear that the goal of universal basic education inthese disadvantaged areas will
not be achieved without targeted compensatory programs.

Furthermore, the quality of primary education remains low and variable. A study of grade 5
reading and mathematics achievements in 2001found that less than 40 percent of primary school
students insome areas have attained "independent competency" learning skills. A recent survey
shows that 80 percent of primary schools in Vietnam do not have the minimuminfrastructure
andinstructionalresources requiredto deliver quality education.

Despite a rapid increase inbudget allocation to the education sector inrecent years, fundinghas
not been allocated effectively: inparticular, the needs of disadvantaged groups have not been

'The  statistics utilizedthroughout this Project Appraisal Document are based on official Educational Management
InformationSystem (EMIS) data. It ought to be noted that Government estimates are significantly and
systematically higher than the statistics collected from the 2004 national FSQLDistrict Audit conducted as part of
the Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children project. Figures should be regarded as estimates that suggest
overall trends.


                                                            1

adequately addressed. Critically, the proportion of the primary school budget spent on teachers'
salaries i s inthe order of 95 percent at the expense of non-personnel expenditures. This has
occurred at a time when the number of children inthe primaryeducation age range i s expected to
decrease from about 9.5 to 7.5 million over the period 2000-2012 due to demographic factors.
Pupil-teacher ratios (PTRs) have fallen to excessively low levels in some areas. The Socialist
Republic of Vietnam (SRV) i s currently undertaking an ambitious reform of the teaching
profession, partially with support from DFIDand the World Bank under the Primary Teacher
Development Project (PTDP). This reform includes the introduction of professionalteaching
standards and accreditation of teacher training, review of teachers' work andterms of service,
creation of options for credentialing, performance/remunerationat different levels (called
teachers' titles) and right-sizing the teaching force. In addition, SRV has interrupted the
recruitment of new teacher trainees insome provinces.

Financing of the education system still heavily relies on significant contributions from families,
for both capital and some recurrent expenditures. Except for limitedfee exemptions for
approximately 10percent o f parents, it i s widely acknowledged that direct costs to education are
a salient obstacle to schooling access for disadvantaged children.

Vietnam i s committed to the implementation of its National EFA Action Plan and has pledgedto
increase the share of the education budget to 20 percent by 2010. The National Assembly has
recently proposed that this be fast-tracked to 2008. Official Development Assistance (ODA)
accounts for approximately 10percent of the total public education budget. But in spite of
substantial Government and overseas contributions to education, the existing level of effort i s not
yet sufficient to achieve Vietnam's targets for EFA by the year 2015. The EFA Plan shows that
these objectives will remain elusive without an additional investment of at least 2 to 2.5 billion
dollars for the period 2003-2015 (see EFA Technical Annex IV for a full costing). This situation
i s compounded by the fact that, in order to relieve the burden of education cost-sharing to poor
families, additional financing must be found to compensate for private contributions to the
sector. The proposedtargeted budget support intervention would help to partially bridge the
estimated financing gap at the primary level for the period 2005-2008.

2. Rationale for Donor involvement

Ensuringthat every childhas access to good quality basic education is fundamental to economic
growth and poverty reduction in Vietnam. The Government of Vietnam i s seriously committed
to educating all the children inthe country and it has requested financial and technical assistance
from the Bank and other donors to achieve these goals.

The Bank has been a long-standing partner o f the Ministry o f Education and Training (MoET).
Beginning with the Primary Education Project (PEP) in 1993, one of the first World Bank
projects in Vietnam, a comprehensive strategy of support for basic education has been adopted
throughaprocess of progressive engagement. Over the last three years the level of support has
increased significantly both interms of the number, size and scope o f projects. Currently, the
Bank has been leading several co-financed operations, including the Primary Teacher
Development Project, the Primary Education for DisadvantagedChildren (PEDC) project and a
trust-funded activity to support provincial education planning capacity. ODA-supported projects



                                                   2

inbasic education haveincreasinglyprovidedthe operational context for the piloting of critical
elements of Vietnam's wider reform agendathat include the development of minimumservice
delivery standards (or "Fundamental School Quality Levels"), teacher professionalprofiles,
student achievement testing instruments, a sector investment planning methodology, a Medium
Term ExpenditureFramework (MTEF) and a computerized Education Management Information
System (EMIS). This operation relies and builds on the achievements from these activities.

The introduction of the fully-costed EFA Action Plan, the increasingimportance of decentralized
education planning and delivery mechanisms and the ongoing support that i s being provided to
strengthen education management capacity at all levels of Government has meant that the time i s
prescient for a coordinated multi-donor funding approach to support EFA goals using
Government's own administrative and budgetary structures. The Bank has played an important
coordination role with the five co-financiers to this Targeted Budget Support (TBS) operation-
Belgium, Canada, the EuropeanCommission, New Zealand andthe UnitedKingdom
(subsequently referredto as the TBS Partners). Given the size of the financing gap, TBS
Partners will actively encourage other donors to support the TBS operation.

3. Higher level objectivesto which the project contributes

This project is alignedwith the current World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals of
"making basic social services accessible and affordable for the poor." Government has recently
renewed its commitment to address the challenges of Universal PrimaryEducation. The
National EFA Action Plan provides a strategic framework for long-term education development
and brings together the overarching national education goals andtargets under the Socio
Economic Development Strategy (SEDS) 2001-2010, the Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and
Growth Strategy (CPRGS), the Education Development Strategic Plan for 2001-2010 and the
Vietnam Development Goals (VDGs).

The project supports the Government's strategic approach to poverty reduction through (a)
prioritizing financial assistance to achieve specific education goals to localities in greatest need;
(b)promotingplanning,management andservice delivery basedon evidence-based needs
analyses; (c) encouraginglocal community demand; (d) strengthening governance as well as
accountability, monitoring and evaluation procedures to assess continuously and in a timely
fashion the effectiveness of education programming, resource allocation andresource utilization;
(e) enhancing necessary administrative and financial management systems, particularly at the
local level, in order to complement the ongoing decentralization and public administration
reform efforts laid out under the recent ResolutionNo. 08/2004/NQCP (June 30,2004); and (0
providing technical support inorder to respondto the challenges o f uneven capacity across
provinces and districts.

The project strives to channel ODA more efficiently andreduce transaction costs through the
utilization of a sector budget support aid delivery mechanism. This operation builds on existing
budget support arrangements under the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) series and
reinforces past benchmarks that have called for the adoption of the National EFA Action Plan,
the establishment of Fundamental School Quality Levels (FSQL) minimumservice delivery
standards and the development of teacher professional performance expectations. This approach



                                                  3

i s in line with international commitments under the OECD Development Assistance Committee
regarding the Harmonization of Donor practice.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument

An education budget support operation was originally envisioned for FY07; however, given the
enthusiastic support from the Ministries of Education andTraining (MoET), Finance (MoF) and
Planning and Investment (MPI) as well as from international development partners to move
expeditiously towards programmatic support for EFA goals, the task team advanced part of this
operation to FY05.

The lending instrument i s a Specific Investment Credit (SIC) to be pooled with bilateral grant
and SRV funds into the education sector National Targeted Program (NTP). This type of lending
instrument i s most appropriate for a project that utilizes Government procedures and processes to
achieve well-defined time-boundEFA objectives whilst enabling andpromoting a strengthened
policy andmanagement operational environment.

The funding agreement will comprise of an IDA credit of US$50 million andparallel bilateral
donor grant funds inthe order of US$78 million. Once disbursed as budget support, donor and
Government funds will be indistinguishable and will rely on SRV's own rules and procedures for
implementation. This i s a relatively new funding approach at the sector level inVietnam and as
such the project will first operate on a pilot basis in2005 andthen scale up over the period 2006-
2008.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjectivesandkeyindicators

The project will assist the Borrower in the implementation of its National Education for All Plan
through targeted budgetary support for selected sub-components of the Educational National
TargetedProgram (NTP) designed to enhance the quality of basic education, and through
strengthening o f the administration of the Education National TargetedProgram. Inresponse to
SRV's request, priority will be given to the primary level and the improvement of educational
outcomes in this sub-sector. This decision i s a result of a number of contributing factors,
including the existence of FSQLat only the primary level.




                                                   4

Duringthe life of the project, the shareof schools achievingFundamental SchoolQuality Levels
will increase (see Annex 11for a description of FSQL). Progress towards project development
objectives and outputs will be monitoredbased on key performance indicators on education
access, quality and efficiency (see Annex 3). This i s vital since a key assumption underlying the
above theory of change i s that provision of FSQL-inputs to schools that serve poor children and
ethnic minorities will be necessary and sufficient to improve both access and quality outcomes.

The project will also strengthen the management of the Education NTP disbursement mechanism
through capacity building. "Capacity" i s defined here as the ability of an organization or agency
to perform its role and function in an efficient, effective andresponsive manner over the medium
and long-term. "Capacity building,'' therefore, refers broadly to strategies and actions that
enhance MoET's ability to perform and comply with existing benchmarks for NTPperformance,
such as financial and administrative regulations andprocedures, and adapt to emerging demands
andrequirements.

Since schools below FSQL tend to serve poorer communities, the beneficiary group will contain
a higher proportion of poor children and ethnic minorities than the population of Vietnam in
general. It i s expected that initial ODA financing will provide additional support to cover
approximately one-third of the shortfall inFSQL deficiencies inprimary schools inVietnam.
However, the project has been designed to allow for additional ODA financing duringthe course
of the project inview o f increasingthe impact on the FSQL shortfall.

3. Project components

There are two project components. Component 1strives to support the implementation of FSQL
standards by channeling official development assistance into the Education National Targeted
Program. Component 2 strives to strengthen MoET's institutional capacity to administer and
implement the Education NTP.



                                                   5

Component1: Achievementof FSQLstandardsthroughTBS to the EducationNTP
(US$123 million total, includingIDA andbilateralsources). The targeting of resources will
be based on an assessment of the financing gap needed to improve educational outcomes and
satisfy minimumstandards of access andquality, as definedby the FundamentalSchool Quality
Level regulation, indisadvantaged schools and districts. The FSQL standards establish
minimumservice delivery criteriainterms of physicalinfrastructure, instructionalmaterials,
teaching staff qualifications, in-service professional development, school organization and
management and school-community linkages. It includes a framework to enhance teacher
capacity, school leadership and community participation while promoting inclusive education for
traditionally disenfranchised communities.

The NTPmechanism i s a useful vehicle to enhance pro-poor allocative efficiency and provide
additional resources for the accomplishment of agreed upon sectoral priorities. Duringproject
preparation, technical assistance was provided to MoET to review and amend the existingjoint
MoET-MoF Inter-Ministerial Circular that regulates the purpose, contents, targeting, budget
management and implementationof the EducationNTPthat will be piloted in six provinces in
2005 andbecome effective starting in2006 (see Annex 15).

At the behest of SRV, TBS will focus on five of the seven existing education NTP sub-
components:

    0   Sub-component I:Illiteracy elimination, consolidation of Universal Primary Education
        (UPE) andachievement of Universal Lower Secondary Education
        Sub-component 2: Renovationof the curriculum and textbookdteaching methods
        Sub-component 4: Upgradinginfrastructure of Teacher Training Institutions and teacher
        qualifications
    0   Sub -component 5: Support for the education of ethnic minorities and disadvantaged
        regions
        Sub -component 6:Infrastructure development.

The Inter-Ministerial Circular also places emphasis on innovative ways to encourage school
attendance by special needs children, who are frequently out of school. Activities eligible for
financing include:


    0   Outreach activities to attract children out-of-school
    0   Renovation and construction of classrooms, latrines and libraries
        Provision of teacher aids, equipment, instructional materials or free textbooks for schools
        serving disadvantaged children (due to poverty, ethnic background, disability)
    0   Teacher upgrading andin-service training in areas such as Vietnamese as a second
        language, vernacular language instruction, multigrade teaching, inclusive education and
        school readiness for grade 1
        Principal training in school management, planning and mobilizing communities for
        Universal Primary Education
        Community participation andParent-Teacher Association activities to encourage
        enrolment and to retain children in school.



                                                   6

The NTPi s a centrally-sponsored scheme. The MoET indicates to provinces expected
allocations of central State budget funds to NTP sub-components. However, provincial
authorities have full discretion over planning, investment and resource allocation. Inthis sense,
unlikeatraditional investment credit, there canbe no legalex ante financing allocations inTBS.
Thus, the project will support provincial anddistrict NTPannual work programs as well as
technical assistance and capacity buildingto enhance program management, allocative efficiency
and equity, financial accountability, monitoring and outcome evaluation.

NTPexpenditures are financed not only bythe central SRV Statebudget, but also by provincial
and district supplements, community contributions, transfers from other special programs and
other minor sources. IDA funds will be pooled with bilateral donor partners' grant funds and
then channelled directly into the State budget via the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) andthe
central Treasury. Once disbursed to the State budget, donor funds will be indistinguishable from
central SRV funds. There i s no intent to track the ODA funds separately from other State budget
expenditures.

The ODA contribution to the EducationNTP will amount on average to approximately 24
percent o f central level contributions to the relevant NTP sub-components or approximately 12
percent of the total EducationNTPfunds available for these sub-components-that       is, from
central, provincial, community and other sources. Government has made a commitment that
yearly central State budget counterpart financing for the Education NTPwill increase b y
approximately 10percent, using2005 as a baseline level.

The TBS mechanismwill be to provide an advance andthen review expost on the basis of
expenditure performance from all sources inparticipatingprovinces inthe five concerned sub-
components of the Education NTP, up to an agreed maximum and on the condition of
demonstrating adequate progress inreducing FSQL-deficits. Making future funding dependent
on previous year performance will encourage provinces to add to expenditures on the identified
sub-components at the district level as well as to encourage that ODA resources come in addition
to-not   substitute4xisting levels of financing.

Component2: InstitutionalStrengtheningfor NTPAdministrationand Implementation
(US$5 million,parallelfinancedfrombilateralsourcesbutjointly managed by all TBS
Partners). This component will be financed from a parallel capacity buildingtechnical
assistance fund. This capacity buildingfacility will be predominantly reserved for support to the
central, provincial and district levels on planning, procurement, financial management and
institutional strengthening issues as well as for enhancing community consultation and
empowerment. Funds will also be allocatedto independent implementation progress reviews
(including procurement audits), some local-level monitoring by social organizations (such as
parent-teacher associations, the Vietnam Women's Union, etc.) and commissioning case studies
on EducationNTPadministration, monitoring and impact evaluation.




                                                   7

The project contribution to the overall institutional strengthening of the NTP management and
monitoring system includes:

    0  Effective needs-based targeting of funds
    0  Educational output and outcome results-based reporting
    0  Enhanced accountability of education administrators
    0  Effective and transparent financial reporting, supervision and audit
    0  Efficient public procurement processes through rigorous benchmarking and capacity
        building.

Inaddition, the project will seek to strengthen the policy environment within which schools
operate through a policy matrix detailing supportive government policies andbenchmarks (see
Annex 3). Annual performance monitoring will incorporateregular appraisals of the policy
environment inwhich the project operates. Some of the key areas include:

        Implementation of provincial education planning
        Promotion of full-day schooling
        Parental and community contributions for poor children
        Student achievement measurement and monitoring
        Management of the pupil-teacher ratio
        Non-salary expenditure per student.

Planningandimplementation of activities related to NTPinstitutional strengthening will be
closely coordinated with related parallel donor activities addressing critical capacity building
issues, such as the E C "Support to the Renovation of EducationManagement," the CIDA trust-
funded "Building Capacity for Education Planning" andDFID-EC support for MoET's
preparation o f national and provincial 5-year plans for education.

4. Lessons learnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign

The allocation of recurrent funding to basic education has been determineduntilrecently by
provincial and district general population levels. This approach greatly favored schools located
inhighly populated, developedurban areas andpenalized schools inremote and sparsely
populateddisadvantaged regions. The Government has recognized that, inorder to achieve
greater equity ineducational outcomes, changes inthe funding formula were required. First,the
allocation of resources to schools has shifted to take into consideration the school age
population. Secondly, a greater emphasis was placed on central level targeted compensatory
programs to channel resources to disadvantaged populations inprovinces with limitedrevenue-
raising opportunities. The project supports this needs-based funding approach to ensure that all
schools are equipped with a basic set of inputs of acceptable quality.

Schooling standards in Vietnam have been traditionally associated with elite schools that fulfill
conditions of excellence. The concept of FSQLwas initially developedunder the PEDC project
andhas drawn on extensive in-country experience relatedto the pedagogical and language needs
of disadvantaged children inVietnam. This i s a basic set of school resource requirements related
to infrastructure, instructional materials, furniture, equipment, teaching skills, management and


                                                    8

community participation. FSQL also takes into account the specific needs for instructional
improvements inisolated multigrade classrooms andcommunities where vernacular languages
are spoken.

The project supports decentralized planning and service delivery, focusing on districts and
schools. This approach was adopted inresponse to the ongoing shift of administrative, planning
and management responsibilities to lower governance levels under the current public
administration reform process. Empowering provinces, districts and schools (including local
communities), allowing for local-level flexibility inresource allocation whilst increasing local
level accountability for educational outcomes, creates an opportunity to customize programs to
the specific needs that keep children out of school or affect the quality of education. The project
also acknowledges that local level capacity constraints exist and may hinder the achievement of
project goals. A technical assistance facility, under Component 2, will help strengthen
institutional capacity and promote sustainability.

Finally, the project has adopted a funding approach whereby ODA funds are fully merged with
domestic funds to support the SRV education objectives. This will honor Government
ownership, facilitate donor harmonization and alignment with Government procedures, reduce
transaction costs and strengthen sector management capacity.

5. Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection

TBS was designed as a transition from traditional projects to full budgetary support. Whilst
donor projects have made important contributions to educational development inVietnam, the
case for sector budget support i s strong. Inparticular, sector budget support empowers the
Government to manage spending rationally, forces donors and Government to focus on systemic
weaknesses and to buildcapacity, reduces some o f the transaction costs associated with
traditional project approaches andpromotes accountability within the country. The Education
National Targeted Program has been effectively inoperation since 2001. It i s an earmarked
channel for disbursement of State budget funds to fulfill specific Government priorities. The
Education NTPprovides an opportunity for international partners and SRV agencies to pilot
mechanisms to provide ODA sector support relying directly on Government systems. This
operation will strengthen the SRV institutional capacity for planning, management, procurement,
financial management, monitoring and evaluation and outcomes-based accountability. In
addition, this operation has brought six donors together to work collaboratively under one
programmatic approach. These features, as well as the development of an MTEF, will
strengthen sector management andimprove donor coordination.

The task team considered utilizing an adjustment operation; however, this option was rejected
because the project strives to emphasize: (a) specific education subprograms, (b) linkages
between overall sector strategies andneeds of disadvantaged children, (c) capacity buildingand
institutional development, and (d) close and continuous dialogue between MoET and
international partners regarding education policies and reform priorities. Because FSQL-
standards are still being developedfor (lower) secondary education as part of a comprehensive
ADB-financed financial and technical support package and following the explicit request o f the




                                                  9

Ministry of Education andTraining, this operation focuses mainlyon the primaryeducation sub-
sector.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements

This operationis co-financedby Belgium, Canada, the European Commission, New Zealand, the
UnitedKingdom andthe International Development Association. The TBS Partners have
worked together duringproject preparation, providing financing and technical assistanceto
MoET during the development of the SRV Feasibility Report. The project was jointly appraised
by a multi-donor team. Of the total project costs, Belgium will provide approximately US$6
million, Canada US$11 million, the European Commission US$20 million, New Zealand US$3
million, the United KingdomUS$38 million andthe International Development Association
U S 5 0 million.

TBS Partners have agreed with SRV on project performance indicators and reporting
requirements. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) lays down the principles for interaction
between TBS Partners and SRV as well as the roles and responsibilities of signatories and the
process b y which funds will be disbursed and monitored. The M o U also sets the framework for
thejoint management by all TBS partners of Component 2 of this project, parallel financed by
bilateral sources. A Statement o f Cooperation guides the TBS donor partnership inthe spirit of
increasing donor harmonization and speaking with "one voice."

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

A NationalEFA Committee has been established to coordinate the implementation of the EFA
Action Plan, while the Chairing Committee for the National Education NTP oversees its
implementation and coordinates SRV inter-agency and donor relations. These two groups have
project oversight responsibility and will ensure that close ties are maintainedbetween the
Education NTP and relevant EFA Action Plan initiatives.

The Planning and Finance Department within MoET i s the management unit responsible for
overseeing planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the EducationNTP. MoET
prepares a budget request for the implementation of the EducationNTP annually based on the
proposals from provincial authorities. M o F and MPIinformMoET about the approvedbudget,
which historically provides for approximately 40-50 percent of the MoET proposed
expenditures.

Provincial Departments of Education and Training (DoETs) and District Bureaus of Education
andTraining (BoET) are the mainprogram executing agencies, following MoET standard
procedures. Annually, DoETs develop a plan for the coming year, specifying objectives and
budgetary needs as well as proposedactivities and expected outcomes. Annual plans are based
on information provided by school- and district-level stakeholders. The plan i s then submitted to
the Provincial NTP Steering Committee (comprised of Departments of Finance andDepartments
o f Planning andInvestment) for approval and ultimately forwarded to MoET. After receiving




                                                 10

notification of the State allocated budget, the Steering Committee allocates the budget across
BoETsandNTP sub-components.

There is substantial heterogeneity across provinces and districts regarding the implementation of
NTP-funded activities. While insome instances, districts are largely in charge of school-level
resource allocation and NTPimplementation, inother localities it i s provinces that fulfill the role
of executing agencies. The extent of BoET involvement inimplementation reflects whether
provincial authorities judge district institutional capacity to be sufficient for delegation to occur.

The provincial level i s responsible for overall program implementation and reporting. The
central level provides quality assurance and capacity building, as required. The project will also
strive to promote community participation and public accountability by encouraging districts and
schools to involve local level participants indecision-making and make public displays about
resource allocation and utilization.

State Treasury will transfer allocations to the Education NTP accounts in each of the Provincial
Treasuries, inaccordance with the instructions receivedfrom M o F following approval of the
State budget by the National Assembly. Provincial Treasuries will transfer allocations to the
Education NTP accounts indistrict Treasuries in accordance with instructions receivedfrom the
relevant provincial Department of Finance (DoF), following approval from the Provincial
People's Council. District Treasuries, following receipt of allocations across sub-
componentsheneficiary schools from the district Bureau of Finance (BoF) and approval by the
District People's Committee, will make disbursements in accordance with normal SRV
procedures on submission of appropriate documentation compliant with guidelines contained in
the Inter-Ministerial Circular.

The MoET Finance and Planning Department will have responsibility for ensuring that financial
reports are issued within the requiredtime at the end of each semester. Inaddition, TBS Partners
will receive no later than June 30 an annual consolidated report for the Education NTP. The
Peoples' Committee of each province and district-with        the help of an evaluation committee-
will handle most procurement activities, as currently practiced throughout the country in
accordance to SRV procurement ordinances andregulations and guidance from "procurement
best practices" provided through the project.

Local capacity for NTPplanning and management can act as a constraint for implementation,
especially indisadvantaged communities (see Annex 6). According to an assessment conducted
by the Ministry of Planning and Investment, "many localities considered NTPsas an additional
subsidyto be equally distributed without attention to outcomes. Therefore, inthese provinces,
NTPshave not gainedgood results." On the other hand, a recent UNDP-financed Expenditure
Tracking Survey inSOCTrang province revealed that local capacity was not found to be a
bindingproblem. Managers at provincial anddistrict levels have sufficient qualifications to
manage existing assistance programs, under appropriate financial andmanagement guidelines.
As arisk mitigating measure, the TBS capacity buildingandtechnical assistance efforts under
Component 2 will support implementation inprovinces and districts that face institutional
capacity constraints.




                                                   11

3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

SRV will provide information on implementationprogress and impact of NTP-funded activities
at different levels of Government, based on its own Education Management Information System
(EMIS) and other relevant surveys. Funds will be controlled, accounted for andreportedon
usingthe Government's own financial systems. Key monitoring indicators havebeen agreed
upon and a baseline has been established (see Annex 3).

The following outcome indicators will be used to monitor progress towards project objectives:

 Dimensions                                Key Indicators
  1. Access                                .     Gross intake of age 6 students ingrade 1
 (disaggregated by gender, grade,                Net primaryenrolment rates
 poverty level, location and ethnicity,          Dropout and repetition rates
 wherever appropriate)                           Primarycompletion rate
  2.   Quality and Efficiency            II      Student achievement in grade 5 inmathematics and Vietnamese
  (disaggregated by gender, poverty              language
  level, location and ethnicity, wherever        Pupil-teacher ratio
  appropriate)                             ......Per-student spending on non-salary items

Due to the short lifetime of the project, progress in student achievement scores due to the
contribution of TBS resources will not be feasible since MoEThas initially scheduled the next
grade 5 achievement test to take place inApril 2006. Improvements ineducation quality and
service delivery will be captured through annual FSQL district audits to be carried out as part of
the EMIS data collection effort. A baseline survey has been conducted duringproject
preparation covering areas such as staff qualifications, teaching and learning materials, physical
infrastructure, equipment and furniture. A weighted district FSQLIndex has been developed
that provides a numerical summary score that will be utilized to monitor yearly progress. In
addition, independent case studies and school effectiveness qualitative appraisals in a sample of
schools will be commissioned under Component 2.

Trends ineducation expenditure data will be monitored (such as per student spending on non-
salary items), buildingon the recent NTPevaluations and district expenditure survey conducted
by the Planning and FinanceDepartment within the context of the MTEF. Inaddition, the
project will monitor ongoing key policy initiatives in education finance, planning and
governance deemed critical for improvements in service delivery.

Districts will prepare annual reports specifying the level of progress towards NTP outcomes and
outputs. Provinces will compile these reports and prepare an annual summary appraisal of
Education NTPimplementation. Local andnational capacity buildingto support the monitoring
andevaluation requirements of the Education NTPsidentified are to be providedunder
Component 2. Furthermore, the project will promote community participation and encourage the
involvement of social organizations, such as parent-teacher associations, inlocal-level
monitoring.




                                                          12

4. Sustainability

The Governmenthas a long-term commitment to achieving universal primary education as
demonstrated by the Prime Minister's endorsement of the EFA Action Plan 2003-2015. The
EFAAction Planhas beenfully costed, with an increasing proportion of Government resources
committed to the education sector over the EFA period.

     US$ million
     (in 2002 prices)    2003      2005     2006       2007        2008       2009       2010      2015
 PrimarySectorNeeds
 for UPE                 540.3      633.0    658.6     716.5       766.6       817.0      879.5    1156'5
 SRV Budgetfor
 Primary Education       404.7      516.8    557.7     614.2       675.9       743.4      817.1    1109.3




The MTEFprojections consider the requiredresources to maintain FSQLto be affordable at the
national andprovincial level. There are also contributory demographic factors at play, as the
number of primary school-age children i s expected to decline within the EFA Action Plan
period. With incentives inplace to avoid TBS funds supplanting central Government financing,
the project can be appropriately regarded as a budgetary bridgingexercise. Furthermore, the
policy, management andreporting approaches that are being trialed by the project are part of
ongoing Government efforts to improve public service delivery and accountability. An explicit
institutional buildingeffort will promote sustainability and implementation capacity at lower
governance levels.

5. Criticalrisksand possiblecontroversial aspects

Risks                                       RiskMitigationMeasures                            RiskRating
                                                                                              & Mitigation
ToProject Development Objective
NTP funding i s usedfor non-NTP activities. Inter-MinisterialCircular sets out clear          Modest
                                            guidelines for funds utilization. Central NTP
                                            allocations are `protected' down to the
                                            spending unit. Inter-Ministerial Circular will
                                            require posting of Education NTP allocations
                                            and expenditures at beneficiary level to
                                            promote public accountability.
                                            Encouragementof involvement of social
                                            organizationsinlocal-level monitoring.
                                            Procurementarrangements promote "best
                                            practices" andremediesfor misprocurement.




                                                    13

                                               Zentral Government commitment to continue        Modest
Government financing.                          to increase annually EducationNTP
                                               :ontributions. Ex-post financial performance
                                               assessmentmechanismto ensure
                                               additionality. Reporting of expenditures
                                               sompared to baseline data.
To Strategy Outputs
Targeted schools continue to encourage         Government official policy i s to eliminate      Substantial
community/family resource mobilization         user fees. Fee exemption policy for poor
which acts as a barrier to schooling access.   children already under implementation.
                                               Local-level monitoringby social
                                               organizations of primary school fee
                                               exemptions for poor children.
FSQL deficient schools do not receive          FSQL has beenaccepted as a national              Modest
adequatefunding due to weak targeting          minimumstandard and is being promoted
mechanisms.                                    nationally. A district FSQL Index has been
                                               developed and will be used as a basis for
                                               monitoring. Inter-Ministerial Circular will
                                               annex a list of FSQL-deficits for each district.
The required planning and administrative       Capacity constraints are identified and          Modest
capacity at the local level for implementation technical assistanceefforts are deployed
i s insufficient.                              through Component 2; substantial capacity
                                               building efforts are being undertaken through
                                               several parallel operations, such as Building
                                               Capacity for Education Planning and Support
                                               to the Renovation of Education Management.
Slow disbursement o f NTP funds to             Inceptionperiod will help identify potential     Modest
provinces/districts and limited absorptive     problems that could lead to slow
capacity.                                      disbursements. Past experience suggests that
                                               provinces have been able to steadily absorb
                                               annual increases inNTP fundinn.
Overall risk rating                                                                             Modest



6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Effectiveness Conditions:
0     Introduce accounting sub-codes and develop Treasury expenditure reports by Education NTP
      sub-component by province.
 0    Prepareand issue an Inter-MinisterialInstruction establishing the operational rules and
      requirements under the Education NTP2006-2010 cycle andto be applied to the six pilot
      provinces duringthe inception period.
      Enter into a co-financing arrangement with the UnitedKingdom and/or Canadafor
      Component 2 of this project.

Legal Covenants:
 0    Maintain aForeignExchange Account, with sub-accountsto receive monies inthe currencies
      of TBS Partners.
 0    MoET, DoETs and BoETs have the staff neededto handle the management, monitoring and
      reporting requirements of the Education NTP.
      Provide annual work programs no later than November 30 of every year.



                                                         14

    Provide an annualperformance review of eachdistrict within the NTP-eligible provinces,
    showing the status of such district against baseline lists of FSQL-related shortfalls no later
    than June 30 of each year.
    Provide Financial MonitoringReports (Fh!TRs) semi-annually no later than 45 days after the
    end of each semester.
    Provide annual financial statements and audit reports by an independent auditor no later than
    June 30 of each year.
    Submitannualprocurement audits by an independent auditor no later than June 30 of each
    year, while TBS Partnersreserve the option of conducting post reviews inconsultation with
    SRV.
    Issue guidance on procurement best practices by October 31,2005 aimed at guiding the
    responsible implementing entities at the provincial, district and school levels towards
    applying those procurement practices consistent with government procedures andregulations
    most conducive to economy, efficiency and transparency.
    Organize mid-year supervisions and annual review meetings with IDA and other TBS
    Partnersto appraiseNTP implementation andprogressinachievement of project objectives.
    For 2006 releaseto take place, issue an Inter-MinisterialCircular for the Education NTP
    2006-2010 cycle andimplement a coding structure consistent with its provisions.
    Provide a mid-termreview of the Education NTP2006-2010 implementation before the
    project closing date.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

Economic: The economic case for the project rests on the assessment that significant funding
shortfalls together with shortcomings inthe policy and managementenvironment have resulted
ina situation where many schools do not havethe minimumresourcesrequiredto providea
quality education. Furthermore, funding shortfalls within the primary sector have meant that
family and community contributions are essentialto meet the core resourceneeds of schools.
This overall situation has ledto wide disparity ineducational outcomes interms of access and
quality. This i s of great concern since universal primary education i s strongly associatedwith
progressinpoverty reduction and economic development and i s found to have significant private
returns inVietnam.

The majorbenefits foreseen are: (1)reducedrepetition and dropout, (2) improvedcompletion
rates of primary schooling, (3) enhancednet enrolment rates from inclusionary interventions for
out-of-school children, (4) improvedtransition rates to lower secondary schools, all as a result of
(5) improvedquality of education in schools with initial input deficits. The underlyingrationale
of the FSQL, and thus of the TBS program, i s that it representsthe minimumresource package
that can be acceptedto produce schooling of acceptablequality inVietnamese conditions.

Researchevidence suggests that inferior schooling (and, inparticular, inadequateflows of non-
personnel inputs in schools) results inhigher repetition and dropout rates, thus lower completion
rates, and also lower economic rates of returnto completion. These are all the result of weaker
learning achievement stemmingfrom a suboptimal inputmix to the schooling process. Despite
attempts to increasethe level of fundingfor non-personnel expenditures in education in Vietnam,


                                                 15

budgetary constraints, especially in "deficit" provinces, result in school level expenditures on
non-personnel items well below recommended norms. This situation i s compoundedby the
absolute priority inthe Vietnamese budget system given to funding personal emoluments of
established personnel. Inpart, the EducationNTPi s an attempt to remedy this situation, but
central State budget allocations to this NTPhave been less than half o f MoET's proposals,
submitted to MoF, of what was "needed" in 2001-2004. The total estimated costs required to
reach FSQL standards, based on school conditions inApril 2004, are approximately US$715
million. The current funding gap i s estimated at US$425 million, to which TBS would
contribute about 30 percent.

Bringingschools upto FSQL faster than SRV resources for this purpose would otherwise permit,
i s thus in keeping with SRV priorities and can be expected to yield clear benefits in the form of
both improved internal and external efficiency andinthe form of greater equity.

Financial: From a financing perspective, the project i s regarded as a budgetary "bridging
exercise" that has no negative sustainability implications. The MTEFprojections for education
strongly suggest that the combination of growing budgetary resources available for education
and declining total enrolments inprimaryeducation will, within a few years, permit the
allocation of greater resources to non-personnel inputs, so long as SRV continues to tackle
appropriately the complex issues surrounding teacher deployment and remuneration. However,
inthe short term, representedby the plannedduration of thisprogram, central allocations
available for primaryeducation are insufficient to ensure that all schools reach a minimum
standard.

Inaddition, the nature of the FSQL is such that the expenditures neededto bring schools upto
this level are mostly of a one-off nature with little or no annual recurrentimplications (teacher
upgrading, facilitation of community support to schools, furniture and equipment, inclusion for
disadvantaged groups, Vietnamese as second language and multigrade teaching training,
teaching materials and school constructiordmaintenance). With the exception of selected items
(e.g., furniture, equipment and teacher upgrading), the recurrent expenditures needed to maintain
FSQL, once achieved, will be far less than what i s needed to implement FSQL inthe short term.
Itis expected that after project completion, in2009, SRV recurrent budgets should be able to
comfortably support them. The proposedTBS program has been designed as a mechanismfor
achieving FSQL standards more quickly than would otherwise be possible. The annual recurrent
expenditure requirements for their maintenance, according to MTEFprojections, should be
wholly affordable.

2. Technical

The technical design of the project pivots aroundtwo key elements. The first relates to the
establishment of a minimumresource requirement for primary schools inthe form of the
Fundamental School Quality Level (FSQL). FSQLserves a number of important purposes,
notably, as a targeting mechanism for disadvantaged schools as well as a means of measuring
project progress. It i s an organizing principle to address the existing disparity ineducational
inputs and outcomes interms of access andquality. FSQL hasbeen officially adopted as a




                                                   16

minimumstandard nationally andis considered as an important first step towards the
achievement of the more ambitious National School Standards.

The second key element relates to the reliance on a Government standarddisbursement channel
inthe form of the EducationNationalTargeted Program. The rationale for selecting the
EducationNTP as a funds delivery mechanism rested on a number of important features of the
program, including strengthening decentralized decision-making and needs-based financing for
disadvantaged populations (due to poverty, ethnic background, disability). In addition, the
Education NTPprovides a suitable vehicle for institutional strengthening of policy,
implementation and monitoring capacity at the local level.

3. Fiduciary

An assessment of financial management andprocurement capacity was conducted during
program preparation and found to be acceptable to use existing Government systems.
Nevertheless a few ex ante andexpost risk mitigation measures have been incorporatedduring
project preparationinorder to improve and strengthen Government financial management and
procurement practices as detailedinAnnexes 7 and 8. The project will be implementedby
MoET and management responsibility for the NTPlies with the Ministry's Department of
Planning andFinance. MoET, and inparticular the Budgeting Section- NTPManagement Unit
inthe Department of PlanningandFinance, hashadextensive experience with WorldBank-
financed projects and financial management. Day-to-day implementation will be carried out at
the provincial and district levels as detailed inAnnex 6. Capacity support and improvement will
be provided by Component 2 of the project (which will be funded from parallel bilateral donor
funds) andseparate bilateral andBankprojects which focus on buildingplanning, management
and financial management capacity throughout the Ministry.

The project will provide additional funds, which will be pooled with bilateral grants and SRV
funds, for the education sector NationalTargetedProgram. The project's funds will be
budgeted, accounted, reported and controlled in accordance with Government financial
regulations and procedures usingGovernment's financial systems. The Joint Inter-Ministerial
Circular for the Education NTP will specify requirements inrelation to the allocation and use of
funds, accounting, reporting andcontrols.

The project funds will be channelled through a dedicated Foreign Exchange Account at the State
Bank of Vietnam and then credited to the NTPbudget accounts. Government will provide a
report on balances and transactions of the dedicated foreign exchange account to TBS Partners
semi-annually. The project will use the report transaction based disbursement method with
annual disbursement of funds inthe thirdquarter of the fiscal year linkedto agreed performance
benchmarks for project progress. Semi-annual financial monitoring reports and annual financial
statements for the NTPs of the project will be produced. The annual financial statements will be
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to TBS Partners and the audit will be conducted in
accordance with International Standards of Auditing and terms of reference acceptable to TBS
Partners. The annual audit report and financial statements must be submitted to TBS Partners
within six months after the end o f the financial year.




                                                  17

All procurement will be conductedutilizingthe Government'sownprocurement channels, as
governed by Decrees 52, 66 and 88, and Circulars 1and 14. A Public Procurement Ordinance
will be included for discussion inthe Vietnamese Parliament Standing Committee's agenda in
2005. No major procurement issues are expectedalthough some Government procurement
competitive biddingprocedures for civil works and goods are not inline with Bank Guidelines.
TBS will only cover alimitednumber of expenditure items such as textbooks, classroom
consumables, teacher training and renovation of school infrastructure. Direct contracting for
procurement of textbooks i s allowed inVietnam. Other inconsistencieswith Bank procurement
guidelinesfor procurement of school goods and works-such         as local preference, selecting
dependentSOEs, pre-registration of contractors-are       not expectedto produce significantly
differentoutcomes interms of efficiency, timing, pricingor cost savings. This is particularly the
case since procurement will be decentralized to lower governance levels andcontract amounts
will be small and are not likely to attract other provincial or regional contractors. A registration
system i s not inplace and construction SOEs belong to ministries other than the Ministry of
Education andTraining. However, the recent fiduciary review conducted by the Bank indicated
considerable colluding andbid-rigging intenders. Procurement risk mitigation efforts have been
builtinto the proposedproject by providingguidanceon "procurement bestpractices" and
promotingthe implementation of "Procurement of Smaller Contracts" stipulations under Decree
88, engaging independent procurement and financial audits, conducting semi-annual post
reviews and specifying remedies for misprocurement. Procurement risks will be minimizedeven
further once the new Ordinance becomeseffective.

4. Social

Social disparities exist with respect to educational outcomes, mirroringbroader urban-rural
socioeconomic disparities. Student achievement i s notably worse inisolated areas as well as in
high-poverty districts. Targeted funding to elevate local schools indisadvantagedlocalities to a
minimumservice delivery standardwill help to address someof these existing inequities.
Furthermore, special attention will be given to support equitable outcomes for all school children
irrespective of gender, ethnicity or disability.

Overall, there i s a high level of gender parity in educational outcomes. However, inthe more
remote, mountainous and poorer areas of Vietnam, girls have lower enrollment rates than boys
and this becomes more pronounced among some ethnic minority groups. The Education NTP
will strive to address factors that constrain girls' educational participation and support
interventions that will benefit them (see Annex 15). Measuresto expand access to universal
basic education will take into account barriersfaced by girls and help identify appropriate means
to overcome the gender gap ineducation, especially inpoor and ethnic minority areas. Many
program interventions address constraints that generally tend to affect girls disproportionately,
exerting a stronger negative influence on their chances of enrolling, remainingand succeedingin
school. Consequently, the overall FSQL strategy addresses these issues-such        as costs, correct
age of school entry and access to upper primary grades-including reduction of direct costs of
schooling, the provisionof textbooks and school supplies for poor children andprovision of a
clean and safe ("girl-friendly") physical environment through the construction of latrines and
provision of water points (i.e., storage containers) at these sites.




                                                   18

Primary educational outcomes for many ethnic minority children are well below the national
average. The project i s expectedto benefitdistricts/schools where ethnic minority people reside
and will have a positive influence on the quality of primaryeducation for ethnic minority
children, for instance, through the promotionof Vietnameselanguage strengthening skills or
vernacular languageinstruction. Many ethnic minority children drop out early intheir education
becausethe language of instruction acts as abarrier (see Annex 15).

Inaddition, contributions from families act as asignificant barrierfor children from poor
householdsto access schooling. By promotingFSQL standards, this project will increase
allocations to meet non-personnel costs andreduce the cost to parents,thereby promotingmore
inclusive development.

Improving access to and quality of education demandsclose contact and dialogue with parents,
communities and local stakeholders. The project will promote localparticipation and
involvement through a variety of avenues, such as involvement of Parent-TeacherAssociations
in school planning andencouragementof local accountability through public dissemination of
informationon school performance and resource allocation.

Project preparation builds on a large consultation effort conducted during the design of the
PEDC project and the development of the FSQLprinciples. The design of TBS was informedby
eleven field visits and discussions with provincialrepresentatives, district officers, teachers,
principals, primary students and community members from urban, rural andremote areas. Focus
group discussions were heldat school sites, while provincial consultation workshops were
conducted to review the SRV Pre-Feasibility andFeasibility reports. The project will promote
the collection of gender andethnicity disaggregateddatato encourage the incorporation of equity
considerations ineducation development plans as well as provide the basis for effective
monitoring and evaluation processes.

5. Environment

The project will haveno significant environmental impact (Category C). School construction
undertheproject will be limitedto classroom upgrading andrehabilitation work. The Ministry
of Construction has established guidelines for construction bidspecifications to cover
eventualities regarding construction dust and noise control, waste management, site
management, sanitation facilities and asbestos-containingmaterial demolition management.
These guidelines are contained inthe Vietnam Standardsfor Construction TCVN-4319-86
(Standards for Public Works andHouses) and TCVN-3978-84 (Standards for School
Construction). MoET and contractors must abide by these guidelines.




                                                 19

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                              Yes                      N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP4.01)                                                   [I                      [XI
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                             [I                      [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                 [I                      [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                   [I                      [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                     [I                      [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                    [I                      [XI
  Forests (OP/BP4.36)                                                                       [I                      [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                               [I                      [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [I                      [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                       [I                      [XI


7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

Provincial authorities have full discretion over planning, investment and resource allocation
determinations. Inthis sense, unlike a traditional investment credit, there can be no legal ex ante
financing allocations inTBS. Therefore, an annual procurement plan cannot be producedin
advance.

The project relies on Government systems for implementation and these have been deemed to
meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation, regarding financial management,
procurement, staffing, counterpart funding, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. N o land
acquisition plans or resettlement framework are required since no new civil works will be
undertaken. The use of the land will neither require a resettlement plan nor a resettlement
framework, i.e., additional classrooms or other rooms will be built on land already available to
existing schools.




* By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intendto prejudice the finaldetermination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas.


                                                             20

                         Annex 1:Country andSector or ProgramBackground
               VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONALEFAPLANIMPLEMENTATION


Access and quality

Vietnam has expressed strong commitment to achieving universal basic education as a
foundational stone to social development andeconomic growth. This commitment i s clearly
formulated inthe Education Development Strategic Plan for 2001-2010 and the Comprehensive
Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy. A fully-costed NationalEducation For All (EFA)
Action Plan has been approved inJuly 2003 by the Prime Minister andhas beenjointly reviewed
and endorsed by international partners and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in
September 2003. The EFA Plan was deemed a credible strategic framework. Vietnam i s the
only country inthe South East Asia region that has qualified to date for the EFA Fast Track
Initiative.

Duringthe past decade, Vietnam has accomplishedgreat progress inthe field of education. The
primarynet enrolment rate has increasedfrom 86 percent in 1990to 91percent in2003, the
dropout rate has declined from 12percent to about 3 percent, the repetition rate from 9 percent to
less than 5 percent and the completion rate has increased from 47 percent to more than 75
percent.2 Inaddition, Vietnam has also significantly developed lower secondary education
opportunities. The transition rate from primaryto lower secondary has increased from 78
percent to 88 percent and a majority o f young Vietnamese has gained access to nine years of
basic education. These accomplishments place Vietnam at the forefront of educational
development among countries with similar per capita income.

                                             Student CompletionRates
     School year                                      1994        1998        2000          2002
     Primary                                         57.38       69.64       74.42         80.51
     Lower secondary                                 59.12        69.36      70.01         73.44
     Upper secondary                                  82.95       86.01      83.16         79.65
     Source: Departmentof PlanningandFinance,MOET


However, significant challenges ineducational access andquality still remain. Barriers to
education access are concentrated in specific regions of Vietnam, where schooling conditions are
harderdueto lack of adequate human resources, prevalence of vernacular languages, high
poverty incidence, lack of adequate financial resources, low resource mobilization ability at the
local level and the existence of smaller remote communities that tend to make unit costs to
education higher. An estimated 20 percent of ethnic minority children have no access to primary
education. According to the Vietnam Living Standards Survey, primary enrolment rates show
notable variations by wealth, ethnicity and location. Although there are signs of a narrowing of
the enrolment gap at the primary level, there i s also clear evidence of a continuing positive



 Please see Footnote 1.


                                                       21

correlation between enrolment and wealth. The goal of universal primary education will not be
achieved without targeted compensatory programs.

                     Variation inEnrolment Rates by Socio-economicCategory
                                                                         Primary
                                                              1993         1998           2002
     Vietnam                                                  86.7         91.4           90.1
     Poorest                                                  72.0         81.9            84.5
     Near poorest                                             87.0         93.2            90.3
     Middle                                                   90.8         94.6            91.9
     Near richest                                             93.5         96.0            93.7
     Richest                                                  95.9         96.4            95.3
     Kinh and Chinese                                         90.6         93.3            92.1
     Ethnic minorities                                        63.8         82.2            80.0
     Urban                                                    96.6         95.5            94.1
     Rural                                                    84.8         90.6            89.2
     Source: VietnamLiving StandardsSurvey, 2002


                            Rates of Repetition and Dropout by Region, 2004
                                                         Repetition           Dropout

                                                   Primary       Lower   Primary   Lower
                                                               secondary          secondary
                   Nationwide                        1.24         0.94    3.13      5.90
                   RedRiver Delta                    0.17         0.53    0.52      2.37
                   NorthEast                         1.43         0.62    3.29      4.24
                   NorthWest                         3.42         0.97    6.68      5.64
                   NorthCentral                      0.47         0.41     1.62     4.59
                   Coastal South Central             1.oo         0.99     1.23     5.58
                   CentralHighlands                  4.28         2.26    4.61      6.62
                   SouthEast                         1.37         1.84    2.81      8.14
                   MekongRiver Delta                 1.09         1.03    6.22      11.02
                   Source: Departmentof PlanningandFinance, MOET


Furthermore, the quality of primary education remains low and variable. Children in
disadvantaged localities are generally provided a shorter primary school curriculum (100-120
weeks over a five year period) compared to the 165- andnow 175-week curriculum provided in
more developed areas. There are substantial variations inacademic attainment indifferent parts
of the country (see Annex 12). A recent survey shows that 80 percent of primary schools in
Vietnam do not have the minimuminfrastructure and instructional resources requiredto deliver
quality education. A study o f grade 5 reading and mathematics achievements in 2001found that
less than half of primary school students insome areas have attained independent learning skills.
Inother words, considerable numbers of pupilsare graduatingwho are ill-prepared or do not
have a solid basis to make productive use of further education opportunities.




                                                             22

                       Attainment of MathematicsandReadingSkills at Grade5
                                                             1998                               2003
        Region              Sample
                           Provinces           Reading           Mathematics          Reading       Mathematics
                                           Score       Index     Score   Index     Score    Index   Score   Index
  RedRiver                Hanoi               79        100       73      100       74       100     95     100
  North East              Yen Bai             54        68        36       49       39       53      65      68
  North West              Son La                                                    46       62      75      79
  North Central           Thanh Hoa           28        35        17       23       51       69      84      88
  Central Coast           QuangNam            20        25        20       27       50       68      83      87
  Central                 Gia Lai                                                   53       70      84      88
  Highlands               VinhLong            24        30        16       22       47       63      77      81
  Mekong Delta
  Source: Reading and MathematicsAssessment Study, Volume 2,2004


Financing

There has been a significant surge inthe education sector budget inrecent years. Vietnam i s
committed to the implementation of its National EFA Action Plan and has pledged to increase
the share of the education budget to 20 percent by 2010. Official Development Assistance
accounts approximately for 10percent of the total public education budget.

    Proportionof EducationSector ExpenditureinGDPandTotalPublicExpenditure
                      Total                Price                            TrillionVND
                                            Base
                                                            1994      1998         2000       2002    2004*
         GDP                              Current          170.3      361.5       441.6      536.1     694.9
                                          1994             170.3      244.7       274.3      312.9     36119
         Public Expenditure               Current           42.8       73.4        103.2      133.4     18717
                                          1994              42.8       49.7        64.1        78.0     97.8
         Education Sector                 Current            6.0       12.8        15.6        22.6      32.1
                                          1994               6.0         8.6        9.7        13.3      16.7
         Education share of GDP %                             3.5        3.5        3.5         4.2      4.6
         Education share of PE %                             14.0      17.4         15.1       16.9      17.1
          Source: Departmentof PlanningandFinance,MOET, Departmentof StateBudget,MOF *= Estimate


Despite a rapid increase inbudget allocation to the education sector over recent years, funding
has not been necessarily allocated in an efficient manner. Critically, the proportion of the
primary schoolbudgetspent on teacher salaries i s inthe order of 95 percent at the expense of
non-personnel expenditures. This has occurred at a time when the number of children inthe
primaryeducation age range is expected to decrease from about 9.5 to 7.5 million over the period
2000-2012 due to demographic factors. Pupil-teacherratios (PTRs)have fallen to excessively
low levels in some areas. SRV is currently undertaking an ambitious reform of the teaching
profession, partially with support from DFIDand the World Bank under the Primary Teacher
Development Project. This reform includes the introduction of professional teaching standards
and accreditation of teacher training, review of teachers' work and terms of service, creation of
options for credentialing, performance/remuneration at different levels (called teachers' titles)



                                                               23

and right-sizing the teaching force. Inaddition, SRV has transitorily interruptedthe recruitment
of new teacher trainees insome provinces.

                                                 PupilTeacher Ratios
                   Sub-sector                                  PupiVTeacher Ratio
                                              1994       1998        2000        2002      2004
           Primary                            34.9        30.4       28.0        24.6      23.1
           Lower Secondary                    25.9        28.7       26.3        24.7      23.5
           Upper Secondary                    23.3        30.5       29.6        27.5      27.5
           Source: Departmentof PlanningandFinance, MOET


The magnitude of the challenge has been exacerbated by a financing approach that does not fully
acknowledge the needs of disadvantaged children. Annual per pupil expenditure for children in
the wealthiest income quintile are four times the expenditures for children inthe poorest income
quintile. Although there i s an official national n o m that 20 percent of expenditure should be
dedicated to non-personnel items, it i s often as low as 6 percent or smaller. Much of non-
personnel financing must go to routine maintenance and supplies, with only a minuscule sum
being allocated to teaching and learning materials. It i s not uncornmon for schools to rely on
"voluntary contributions'' from parents for such basic inputs as electricity and water.

Financing of the education system heavily relies on user fees from families, for both capital and
some recurrent expenditures. The elimination of tuition charges inprimary and lower secondary
has been an explicit policy objective inthe CPRGS and the National EFA Action Plan.
Nonetheless, the practice of revenue raising, for instance through school construction fees, still
appears to be widespread and, in some provinces, substantial.

                                             Composition of Private Costs
~~
                                               Inthousand VND per year                       Inpercent of
  Primary       Tuition Contri-                     Text-   School   Extra                    household
  education        fee      bution Uniform          books    tools   classes  Others  Total   expenditure
Poorest             4.7       41.9         17.0      27.6    26.5      7.4       4.8  130.7          1.9
Near
poorest             7.5       47.2         24.9      36.4    34.6      14.1      8.8  174.3          1.9
Middle             11.5       50.3         33.0      41.3    38.6     22.6      15.4  215.0          1.8
Near
richest           26.4        59.8         44.9      44.9    43.8     44.7      22.0  290.8          1.8
Richest         131.1       102.5          73.9      58.8    62.6    218.2      89.3  756.7          2.4
Vietnam           27.8        56.0         34.4      39.5    38.6     47.2      22.3  270.3          1.9
Source: Vietnam Living Standards Survey, 2002


Private costs of education remain high and a significant element of finance. Except for limited
fee exemptions for approximately 10percent of parents, it i s widely acknowledged that direct
costs to education are a salient obstacle to schooling access for disadvantaged children.
Moreover, fee exemptions do not appear to be progressive. Except for the richest quintile, which
pays slightly more, the burden measured inpercent o f total householdexpenditure i s roughly the
same for all population groups or even slightly higher for the two poorest quintiles. The poor


                                                           24

spend less on extra tuition than better off children. If this extra tuition plays an important role in
the quality of learning outcomes, then children from poor families have fewer opportunities to
learn than those children from wealthier families.

         Tuition Fee Exemptionand Reduction by Income Group inSchoolEducation
             Incomegroup                          % of childrenbetween6 and 14 years old
                                         I       I1         I11       Iv           V       Nationwide
      1998
            Partialreduction                8.9   10.7        13.4        9.9          8.6       10.4
            Full exemption                 11.6    6.5         3.6        3.6          0.9        5.8
            Total                          20.5   17.2          17       13.6          9.5       16.2
      2002
            Partialreduction               2.21   1.77        1.42       1.34        0.89        1.52
            Full exemption               24.16    18.2        15.02     11.81        7.39        15.2
            Total                        26.37    19.97       16.44     13.15        8.28        16.72
     Source: HouseholdIncome Survey 1998,2002


While exemptions are, indeed, skewedtowards those inthe bottom quintile of wealth, it i s not as
great as might be expected. Substantial numbers in the bottom quintile continue to pay full
charges. Furthermore, substantial costs fall directly on parents and are not subject of exemption
or help. Poorer provinces also face general resource pressures and are more likely to be reluctant
to give up possible revenue streams.

NationalTargeted Programs

Inspite of substantial Government andoverseascontributions to education, the existinglevel of
effort i s not yet sufficient to achieve Vietnam's targets for EFA by the year 2015. The EFA Plan
shows that these objectives will remain elusive without an additional investment of 2 to 2.5
billion dollars for the period 2003-2015 (see EFA Technical Annex IV for a full costing). This
situation i s compoundedby the fact that, in order to relieve the burden of education cost-sharing
to poor families, additional financing must be found to compensate for private contributions to
the sector. The proposed targeted budget support intervention would help to bridge the estimated
financing gap at the primary level for the period 2005-2008.

The National TargetedPrograms were launchedinthe early 1990s to complement the regular
State budget for ministries, industries and local governments to promote well-defined economic
and social development activities. The Education NTPbegan operating in 2001. The overall
objectives of the NTPs are to enhance the level of sustainable economic growth, alleviate
poverty and improve living standards and income equality among regions and populations of the
country.

Central funds are earmarked andregulatedby budget norms. They flow through the Treasury
system from the central, province and down to the district level through separate accounts, which
allows identification and control of use of funds andprevents leakages inthe program.
Provinces are required to make plans on an annual basis based on instructions of the Ministry in
charge andunder the direction of the provincial Department o f Planning and Investment.
However, the principle o f delegated authority allows provinces and districts to effectively decide



                                                     25

how to spend their NTP allocation. Management mechanisms vary from province to province.
While in some locations, implementation responsibilityi s delegated to districts and communes,
inothers provinces retain control over largeelements of these decentralized programs.

Provincial authorities are responsible for managing resources as well as operating and
coordinating the implementation of NTPs, usually through a Provincial Steering Committee.
The relevant Ministry i s authorized to manage the program nationwide, but the vast majority of
funds are delegated to provincesto implement. Provinces pool central, local, mass organization,
State enterprise and household-levelcontributions to achieve NTP goals.

The Education National TargetedProgram consists of seven sub-components:

        Sub-component1: Illiteracy elimination, consolidation of Universal PrimaryEducation
        and achievement of Universal Lower Secondary Education
        Sub-component2: Renovationof the curriculum and textbookdteaching methods
        Sub-component3: Computer training andintroduction of ITto schools
        Sub-component4: Upgradinginfrastructure of Teacher Training Institutions andteacher
        qualifications
        Sub-component5: Support for the education of ethnic minorities and disadvantaged
        regions
        Sub-component6: Infrastructure development
        Sub-component7: Strengthening vocational training capacity (managed by the Ministry
        of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs).

  Shareof Budgetof EducationNationalTarget Program(MoET)by Region(1997-2004)

                               Share by
                               Region     elimination
                                            Illiteracy Renovation/
                                                       curriculum ITtraining Teacher   Ethnic    Infrastructure
                                                        Texthnnk
                                                        -..-....             training Minorities  enhancement
                                                          ..
      Nationwide                 100             6.5      26.0        2.2      21.7      18.5           24.9
      RedRiver Delta             14.8           11.8      15.8       15.4      18.2       7.4           17.1
      NorthEast                  21.7           21.3      24.7       19.2      18.0      22.2           21.7
      NorthWest                  7.1             8.9        7.6       6.1        6.1      7.7            6.7
      NorthCentral               15.0            9.8      20.5       12.7      12.2      12.4           15.3
      CoastalSouthCentral        8.7             7.2        7.2       8.9        9.3      9.4            9.4
      CentralHighlands           7.3             9.7        7.4       8.7        6.3      9.2            5.9
      SouthEast                  8.7            10.8        3.9      10.3      11.7       8.7           10.2
      MekongRiver Delta          16.8           20.5      12.8       18.7      18.2      22.9           13.9
    Source: Departmentof PlanningandFinance, MOET


An independent review of NTPshas deemed implementation to have been largely satisfactory.
There are clear systemic strengths inthe relatively rigorous existing administrative and
bureaucratic control mechanisms. The National Targeted Programs have contributedto
continuing higheconomic growth, considerable poverty reduction and improving living
standards. The capacity of local, provincial and national education authorities to lead and
manage the education system and to effectively mobilize, allocate and deliver resources has been



                                                            26

critical to the success achieved to date inthe education sector. However, considerable
differences ininstitutional capacity at the district and provincial levels to provide effective
education services has contributed to ongoing disparities ineducational outcomes. Although
there has been a general pro-poor tendency inthe allocation of resources, there i s also room for
improvement in the targeting approach.




                                                  27

       Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies
             VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONAL EFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION




(Cr. 3594-VN)
Building Capacity for        Provincial educationplanning capacity,
Education Planning (CIDA     includingimplementation of 5-year plans




Save the Children Australia - Primary teacher training
Teacher Training
Save the Children France- Education for ethnic minorities
Multigrade teachingand
bilingualeducation


                                                      28

                              Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
               VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONALEFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION
                                            ResultsFramework


I                                           OutcomeIndicators                 Useof OutcomeInformation
 Assist the Borrower inthe           I     gross intake in grade 1, net       rhese indicators will track the
 implementation of its National            primary enrolment, dropout,        :ffectiveness of the NTP channel in
 Education for All Planthrough             repetition and completion          .educing existing inequities in
 targeted budgetary support for                                               :ducation outcomes.
 selected sub-components of the      I     student achievement ingrade 5
 Educational National Targeted             inmathematics and Vietnamese       The administration of the next round
 Program (NTP) designed to enhance         language, pupil-teacher ratio      Ifthe grade 5 test is expected to take
 the quality of basic education, and                                          ilace inApril 2006. These results
 through strengthening of the         (disaggregated by gender, ethnicity,    w i l l not reflect the impact of the
 administration of the Education      location, grade, poverty level and      idditional financing provided
 National Targeted Program.           disability as appropriate)              :boughTBS; nonetheless, this
                                                                              .ndicator i s included here to
                                                                              inderscorethe linkages of education
                                                                              quality outcomes andFSQL
                                                                              resourceinputs inthe policy
                                                                              iialogue process to be undertaken.

             med
 Improve educational outcomes          . Provincial/district FSQL index       These indicators will track the
 through a package of investments         score                               effectiveness of the NTP channel in
 designed to enhance the quality of                                           reducing existing inequities in
 education as well as strengthen the   .  Educational quality assessments     education inputs and reaching
 administration of the education          through school effectiveness        minimum service delivery standards.
 system                                   surveys and case studies
                                          (commissioned under                 No significant improvement inthese
                                          Component 2)                        indicators will trigger a review of
I                                                                             the linkages between education
                                           Provinceldistrict and NTP          inputs and available education
                                          expenditure data trends             financing.


 Strengthen management of              .  Quality and timeliness of annual    These instruments will assist in
 Education NTP disbursement               progress and financial reports      documenting existing opportunities
 mechanism through capacity                                                   and constraints for local level
 building                                 Timeliness, transparency,           management and administration of
                                          accountability and pro-poor         targeted programs as well as the
                                          incidence analysis of resource      overall policy environment to
                                          allocation at all levels, including improve education service delivery.
                                          local-level monitoringby social
                                          organizations

                                          Compliance with Education NTP
                                          guidelines and procedures
                                          regarding financial management
                                       .  and procurement

                                          Policy matrix benchmarks




                                                        29

                        +
Id I                   I




/?i                     7-        0
                                  M




                        I

                       1I
                             B




1    1. . . . . . . . .   . I.

` I.
       2
       9
       i2
       N
       3
       4

                              Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
            VIETNAM: TBSfor NATIONALEFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION


The project will assist the Borrower inthe implementation of its National Education For All Plan
through targeted budgetary support for selected sub-components of the EducationalNational
Targeted Program (NTP) designed to enhance the quality of basic education, and through
strengthening of the administration of the EducationNational TargetedProgram. Project
activities will assist more districts to reach FSQLminimumstandards by enhancing the resources
available for non-personnel expenditures.

Project beneficiaries will be children attending schools being upgraded to FSQL and out-of-
school children who will be drawn into the education system through Education NTP-funded
interventions. Activities are targeted to disadvantaged groups or areas, hence the beneficiary
group will contain a higher proportion of poor children and ethnic minorities than the population
of Vietnam in general. Inthe longterm, improvements ineducational outcomes are presumed to
flow from the better inputpackage, and the consequent reduced repetition; enhanced retention,
completion of primary school and transition to lower secondary school; and improved cognitive
gains from schooling, which should translate to broader economic and social benefits later.

There are two project components. Component 1strives to support the implementation of FSQL
standards by channelinginternational development assistanceinto the Education National
Targeted Program. Component 2 provides technical assistance and capacity buildingto
strengthen the administration, implementation and evaluation of the Education NTP.

Component 1: Achievementof FSQLstandardsthroughTBS to the EducationNTP
(US$123 million,includingIDA andbilateralsources). This component is structured around
the following five organizing principles:

        The National EFA framework as a coherent medium term sectoral development
        instrument
        Establishedminimumquality standards-FSQL-as           a first step to enhance education
        service delivery and outcomes
        A targeting andresource allocation mechanismthat identifies schools below the
        minimumquality threshold
        An assessmentof the resource needs of schools whose standards fall below FSQL
        Disbursementof required funding to disadvantaged provinces through the SRV
        earmarked Education NTPchannel.

The lack of adequate school resources andbasic inputs has ledto poor educational delivery in
disadvantaged schools, significantly undermining education access and quality. School level
expenditure on non-personnel items remains well below recommended norms, partly because o f
the absolute priority inthe Vietnamese budget system to funding personal emoluments of
established personnel. Teacher salaries can account for 95 percent or more of school
expenditure.



                                                 32

TBS financing will be allocated and accounted for usingthe Government's National Targeted
Programmechanism. The NTPmechanism i s a useful vehicle to enhance pro-poor allocative
efficiency and provide additional resources for the accomplishment o f agreed upon sectoral
priorities. Duringproject preparation, technical assistance was provided to MoET to review and
amend the existingjoint MoET-MoF Inter-Ministerial Circular that regulates the purpose,
contents, budget management and implementation of the Education NTPinorder to strengthen
the targeting of resources on the basis of a pro-poor formula, promote information dissemination
inallocative practices, expandthe menu of eligible interventionsto reduce FSQL deficiencies
and enhance financial and performance monitoring. The Inter-Ministerial Circular will be
piloted in six provinces in2005 and become effective nationally startingin2006 (see Annex 15).

At the behest of SRV, TBS funds will be channelled directly through five of seven existing sub-
components within the education sector NTP:

        Sub-componentI: Illiteracy elimination, consolidation of Universal Primary Education
        and achievement of Universal Lower Secondary Education
        Sub-component2: Renovation of the curriculum and textbookdteaching methods
        Sub-component4: Upgradinginfrastructure of Teacher Training Institutions and teacher
        qualifications
        Sub -component 5: Support for the education of ethnic minorities and disadvantaged
        regions
        Sub-component6: Infrastructure development.

The targeting of resources will be based on an assessment of the financing gap that needs to be
closed to improve educational outcomes and satisfy minimumstandards of access and quality, as
definedby the Fundamental School Quality Level regulation. The FSQL standards establish
minimumservice delivery criteria interms of physicalinfrastructure, instructional materials,
teaching staff qualifications, in-service professionaldevelopment, school organization and
management and school-community linkages. It includes a framework to enhance teacher
capacity, school leadership and community participationwhile promoting inclusive education for
traditionally disenfranchised communities. Activities eligible for financing include:

         Outreach activities to attract children out-of-school
         Renovation and construction of classrooms, separate latrines for boys and girls as well as
         for staff and libraries
        Provision of teacher aids, equipment, instructional materials or free textbooks for schools
         serving disadvantaged children (due to poverty, ethnic background, disability)
         Teacher upgrading and in-service training in areas such as curriculum renovation,
         Vietnamese as a second language, vernacular language instruction, multigrade teaching,
         inclusive education or school readiness for grade 1
        Principal training in school management, planning and mobilizingcommunities for
         Universal Primary Education
         Community participation andParent-Teacher Association activities to encourage
         enrolment and to retain children in school.




                                                  33

The NTP i s a centrally-sponsored scheme, where MoET indicates to provinces expected
allocations of central State budget funds to NTP sub- component^.^ However, provincial
authorities have full discretion over planning, investment andresource allocation. Inthis sense,
unlike a traditional investment credit, there can be no legal ex ante financing allocations inTBS.
Thus, the project will support provincial and district NTP annual work programs as well as
technical assistance and capacity buildingto enhance program management, allocative efficiency
and equity, financial accountability, monitoring and outcome evaluation. The Inter-Ministerial
Circular governing the 2006-2010 Education NTPwill: (1) make explicit to provinces and
districts that they are receiving increased allocations inpart inorder to reduce FSQL deficits in
schools; (2) alert provinces and districts that they will be requiredto report on implementation
progress; (3) inform provinces and districts that if they fail to reduce FSQLdeficiencies or to
report on progress, they may receive a reduced allocation the following year; and (4) provide a
listing of indicative FSQL deficits by district and school and a menu of options for reducing
them. A recent review of the Education NTPimplementation (No. 6778/KHTC, dated 3 August
2004) indicates that, although Provincial People's Committees are notjuridically boundby
MoET's intentions with respect to allocations over sub-components, almost all Provincial
People's Committees have apportioned the allotted central State budget funds to the appropriate
sub-components.

NTPexpenditures are financed not only by central SRV State budget allocations, but also by
provincial and district supplements, community contributions, transfers from other special
programs and other minor sources. IDA funds will be pooled with bilateral donor partners' grant
funds andthen transferred to the Statebudget. Once disbursed to the State budget, donor funds
will be indistinguishable from SRV funds. There i s no intent to track the O D A funds separately
from other State budget expenditures.

The ODA contribution to the Education NTPwill amount on average to approximately 24
percent of central level contributions to the relevant NTP sub-components or approximately 12
percent o f the total Education NTP funds available for these sub-components-that            is, from
central, provincial, community and other sources. Government has made a commitment that
yearly central State budget counterpart financing for the Education NTPwill increase by 10
percent annually. Provincial level contributions will be closely monitored on a disaggregated
basis andcompared to baseline data to ensure there i s no substitution for local level financing.




  For example, the proposedVND 1,500 billionfor Sub-component 2, "Renovation of the Curriculum," i s
disaggregatedto expectedminima of VND 1,370 billion for equipment and teaching aids; VND 95 billion for books
and teacher manuals and VND 35 billion for teacher upgrading.


                                                      34

CentralState budgetfinancingfor EducationNTPsub-componentsinmillionUS$
                                                               I    2001      1     2002     I   2003     I   2004     I   2005   1
  a. Illiteracyelimination, consolidation of WE and
   ~   ~~    ~~~




  achievement of universalization of lower                      i     1.0            2.33         2.67         3.33        3.49
                                                                                                                        I
  secondarv education
  b.Renovation of the curriculum and                                           1I            1I           11                       1I
  textbookslteachinp methods                                    I        0          18.37        25.33        34.67       64.43




Source: Figuresfor 2001-04, Ministryof Planningand Investment; for 2005, estimates providedby PlanningandFinanceDept., MoET


                        Educ                                                                           ,2004




                              * Basedon data reportedby 47 out of 55 participatingprovinces
                              Source: Evaluation of NTP Implementation,MoET, August 3,2004.


The TBS mechanism will be to provide an advanceandthenreview expost on the basis of
expenditure performance from all sources inparticipating provinces inthe five concerned sub-
components of the Education NTP, up to an agreedmaximumand on the condition of
demonstrating adequateprogressinreducing FSQL-deficits. Makingfuture funding dependent
on previous year performance will encourage provinces to add to expenditures on the identified
sub-componentsat the district level as well as to encouragethat ODA resources come inaddition
to-not          substitute-existing levels of financing.

Itis expectedthat participating districts will not encourage resource mobilizationfrom poor
families for basic learning supplies, since fees can act as an important barrier to schooling for
disadvantagedchildren. This will be monitored, for example, through local-levelmonitoring by
social organizations.

Districts are accountablefor using the NTPfunds inaccordancewith the budget plans submitted
at the beginning of each year. Inorder to continue to receive TBS funds via additional notional
allocations to the five sub-componentswithin the Education NTP, they will need to demonstrate
satisfactory progress in achieving FSQL standards and outcome targets. Inaddition, provinces
will submit an annual progressreport, includinginformation regardingthe reduction and
elimination of FSQLdeficits, for each district in the province. This i s consistent with normal
SRV procedureswhich require annual progressreports on NTPs.

Critical to the success of the program is: (a) the capacity of StateTreasury to generate in-year
and disaggregatedfinancial reports for the Education NTP; and (b) for districts and provinces to
allocate additional resources in a transparent manner andto monitor the level and overall value
for money of spending. Expenditure reports by district, sub-component and expenditure object


                                                                   35

codes will be producedinan automatedmannerby district Treasuriesusingthe KTKB04 system,
backedupby memoranda accounts producedby BoET accounting systems, and aggregatedby
DoETs and MoET. Inareas where Decree 10has been fully implemented, the Treasury reports
can be disaggregatedby individual school. Where Decree 10has not been implemented and
schools deal with Treasury through their BoET, Treasury will only be able to produce automatic
accounts aggregatedfor all primary schools inthe district. However, normal BoET practice i s to
track all expendituresby school intheir own systems.

During the latter portion of 2005 (referred to as Year 0), an "inception period" will be conducted
insix provinces (YenBaiandHoaBinhinthe North, HaTinh andQuangBinhinthe Central
Zone, andDong Thap and BenTre inthe South) to trial implementation andreporting
procedures. The pilot will entail a supplemental allocation (equal to the IDA TBS disbursement)
to the Education NTP for the pilot provinces, since the project will become effective well after
the start of the Vietnamese fiscal year [January 11.

The project logic anddesignis fully consistent andcomplementary to the approachespoused
under the Primary Education for DisadvantagedChildren Project, currently under
implementation in 215 districts. Incontrast to PEDC, TBS relies exclusively on Government's
own administrative, planning andbudgetary systems. The addition of ODA funds into the
Education NTP will support the enhancementof a disbursementchannel that distributedover
US$65 million of central Statebudget funds in2004.

Component2: InstitutionalStrengtheningfor NTPAdministrationandImplementation
(US$5 million,parallelfinancedfrombilateralsourcesbutjointly managedby all TBS
Partners). This component will be financed from aparallel capacity building technical assistance
fund. TBS Partnerswish to support SRV ownership for the identificationandmanagementof
capacity building and technical assistance support for the NTPmechanism. The overriding
objective i s to establish capacity within MoET, provinces and districts to manage institutional
strengthening interventions and technical assistancewithin SRV systems for themselves.
Capacity buildingi s a key cross-cutting issue and will be taken into account during all key NTP
management processes (monitoring and evaluation, reporting, planning, etc.).

This capacity buildingfacility will bepredominantly reservedfor support to the central,
provincial and district levels on planning, procurement, financial management and institutional
strengthening issues as well as for enhancing pro-poor stakeholder consultation and
empowerment. Funds will also be allocated to independent implementation progressreviews
(including procurement audits), some local-level monitoringby social organizations (such as
parent-teacherassociations, the Vietnam Women's Union, etc.) and commissioning case studies
on Education NTP administration, monitoring and impact evaluation.

The project contribution to the overall institutionalstrengthening of the NTPmanagementand
monitoring systemincludes:

        Supervision, monitoringand evaluation
        Institutionaland organizational development
        Planning andresource allocation within a decentralized context



                                                 36

   0   Compliance with financial and administrative proceduresand regulations
   0   Financialmanagement andreporting within adecentralized context
   0   Community mobilization
   0   Program design andmanagement,inparticular coordination of various programs and
       reporting on program progress
   0   Technical implementation issues, as needed.

Component 2 will support capacity building activities across the entire education NTPinitiative
and not be confined to supporting only those sub-components of TBS. The focus will be on
providingtechnical assistanceto MoET on planning (targeting of schools) andNTPmanagement
and reporting. The capacity buildingfacility will: (a) provide short-term management technical
assistancethroughout the operation of the Education NTP 2006-2010basedon requirements
specified by the MoET, inconsultation with TBS Partners; (b) help formulate a more sustainable
managementcapacity building structure inorder to respond to long-termeducation sector
leadership training and development and (c) finance the costs of independentprocurement and
financial audits.

The following specific objectives havebeenprioritized:
    a) To develop robust procedures for localeducation planning and provide the broader
        mediumterm planning framework for effective needs-basedtargeting of funds usingdata
        on FSQLindicators;
   b) To develop NTPmanagementcase studies of provinces and districts to enable obstacles
        to implementation to be identifiedand possible solutions proposed and costed;
    c) To support capacity building for the implementation of the Education NTP;
    d) To support monitoringand supervision activities, such as school effectiveness surveys
        and case studies;
    e) To further develop andrefinethe list of eligible activities to be supportedby TBS under
        the 5 eligible sub-components;
    f') To investigate the feasibility of the managementof the NTPfor particular sub-
        components beinglocated at different levels;
    g) To enhance accountability of education administrators andpromote educational output
        and outcome results-basedreporting;
    h) To undertakeindependentfinancial andprocurement monitoring andassociatedtraining;
    i)Todesignandimplementstudentoutcomeevaluationinstrumentsandproceduresand
        undertake evaluation of the impact of the Education NTP; and
   j) To promote social accountability, locallevelmonitoringandcommunity participation.

Inaddition, the project will seek to strengthenthe policy environment within which schools
operatethrough a policy matrix detailing supportive government policies and benchmarks (see
Annex 3). Annual performance monitoring will incorporate regular appraisals of the policy
environment in which the project operates. Some of the key areas include:

    0   Implementation of provincial education planning
    0  Promotion of full-day schooling
    0  Parental and community contributions for poor children



                                                 37

        Student achievement measurement and monitoring
    0   Management of the pupil-teacher ratio
    0   Non-salary expenditure per student.

The objectives and activities proposed will contribute to the achievement of the
recommendations for NTPs made by the IntegratedFiduciary Assessment and Public
Expenditure Review. Planning and implementationof activities relatedto this component will
be closely coordinated with relatedparallel donor activities addressing critical capacity building
issues, such as the E C "Support to the Renovation of Education Management" and the CIDA
trust-funded "Building Capacity for EducationPlanning." Implementation will be consistent
with and supportive of the preparation of national andprovincial Socio-Economic Development
Plans for Education 2006-2010.




                                               38

                                            Annex 5: Project Costs
            VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONAL EFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION



                                            IndicativeProject Cost'
                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                US$ million
 1. Component1: Supportto the nationalEFA Action                          Percentage
     Planthrough the educationNTP

  a. Illiteracy elimination, consolidation of UPEand                        12%                    14.8
     achievement of universalization of lower secondary
     education
  b.Renovationof the curriculum andtextbookdteaching                         12%                   14.8
     methods
  c Upgradinginfrastructure of teacher training                               8%                    9.8
     institutions and teacher qualifications
  d. Support for the education of ethnic minorities and                      15%                   18.4
     disadvantaged regions
  e. Infrastructure development                                             53%                    65.2

 Subtotal Component1                                                       100%                   123.0

 2. Component2: Institutional strengtheningfor NTP                                                  5.O
     administrationand implementation

 Total                                                                                            128.0
 IDA contribution to total project costs is US$50million. Component 2 is fully parallel financed from bilateral
sources. Government counterpart contributions to the project &e expected to amount to US$380 million between
2006-2008.




                                                        39

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
            VIETNAM: TBSfor NATIONALEFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION


The EducationNationalTargetedProgram (NTP) will provide the institutional and
implementation channel by which project funds are allocated and accountedfor. This represents
a flexible delivery system to help more schools reach FSQLusing standardGovernment
processes and procedureswithout the need for detailed central management or aproject
coordination unit.

A NationalEFA Committee has beenestablishedto coordinate the implementation of the EFA
Action Plan, while the Chairing Committee for the NationalEducation NTP (also known as the
NTP Working Group or NTPWG) oversees its implementation and coordinates SRV inter-
agency and donor relations. These two groups have project oversight responsibility and will
ensure that close ties are maintained betweenthe Education NTP andrelevant EFA Plan
initiatives.

The allocation and targeting of resourceswill be basedon an assessment of the existing FSQL
resource gap at the school level. Under the Education NTP, funds will be transferred through the
provincial and district StateTreasury system and then allocated for the benefit of individual
schoolsby the relevant districts andprovinces. TBS funds will be channelled directly through
five of seven existing sub-components within the Education NTPthat correspondbroadly with
key FSQL elements.

The Planning andFinanceDepartment (Budgeting Section-NTPManagement Unit)within
MoET i s the managementunitresponsible for overseeing planning, implementation, monitoring
andevaluation of the EducationNTP. MoET prepares abudget requestfor the implementation
of the Education NTPannually basedon the proposals from provincial authorities. MoF and
MPIinformMoETof the budget available andprovincial allocations. Historically,the approved
budget provides for approximately 40-50percent of the MoET planned expenditures.

There will be a full-time Program Manager from the present staff of the Planning andFinance
Department that will act as the focal point for plans, proposals, communication andreporting
concerning the NTP. While there will be no project managementfacility as such, SRV will
ensure that the project i s supportedby additional staffing andrelatedresources within the
concerned ministries and departments.

ProvincialDepartments of Education andTraining (DoET) andDistrict Bureaus of Education
andTraining (BoET) are the mainprogram executing agencies, following MoET standard
procedures andways of operation. Annually, DoETs develop a plan for the coming year,
specifying objectives andbudgetary needs as well as proposed activities and expected outcomes.
Annual plans are basedon information providedby school- and district-level stakeholders. The
plani s then submitted to the ProvincialNTP Steering Committee for approval and ultimately
forwarded to MoET. After receiving notification of the State allocated budget,the Steering
Committee allocates the budget across BoETs and NTP sub-components,




                                                 40

There i s substantial heterogeneity across provinces and districts regarding the implementation of
NTP-funded activities. While in some instances, districts are largely incharge of school-level
resource allocation and NTPimplementation, inother localities it i s provinces that fulfill the role
of executing agencies. The extent of BoET involvement inimplementation reflects whether
provincial authorities judge district institutional capacity to be sufficient for delegation to occur.

Provincial allocations under each of the NTP sub-components will be determinedjointly by
MoET andMoF. DoETs will receive EducationNTPfunds as a single lumpsum allocation.
Provinces may then choose to supplement central NTP allocations from their own funds.
Following guidelines inthe Education NTPInter-Ministerial Circular, DoETs will determine
allocations to BoETs inthe beneficiary districts for NTP interventions managed at that level (and
determine activities benefiting qualifying schools for the NTPprograms they manage directly).
BoETs, following the same guidelines, will determine yearly allocations to eligible schools in the
district for those NTP sub-components managed at that level.

The provincial level will be responsible for overall program implementation and reporting. The
central level will provide quality assurance and capacity building, as required. The project will
also strive to promote community participation and public accountability by encouraging
districts and schools to involve local level participants indecision-making, local-level
monitoring by social organizations and public displays about resource allocation and utilization
of funds.

Districts and provinces will monitor the level and overall value for money of NTP spending.
The Peoples' Committee (PC) of each province and district-with          the help of an evaluation
committee-will     handle most procurement activities, as currently practiced throughout the
country in accordance to SRV procurement decrees, circulars and ordinances as well as guidance
provided through the project on "procurement best practices." There will be an annual
performance report by province specifying progress made towards the elimination of FSQL
deficits. The State Treasury will have an important role ingenerating annual disaggregated
financial reports for the Education NTP. Semi-annual expenditure reports by district, NTP
program and expenditure object codes will be produced inan automated manner by district
Treasuries usingthe KTKB04 system, backed up by memoranda accounts produced b y BoET
accounting systems and aggregated by DoETs and MoET for delivery to TBS Partners.




                                                  41

Management Structure for the EducationNTP
                        E                    Prime Minister



              f                        Inter-MinisterialNTPWG
               u
               w                           (MPI-MOET-MOF)




                     a-+r.              NTP SteeringCommittee     I                             I
                                                   t                                             I
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 I




                     PCI




Institutional Capacity Assessment

SystemicAssessment
The Vietnamese primary and secondary education system i s characterized by a dual, vertically
and geographically divided structure. The overall direction and control are inthe hands of
People's Committees (PC), while the daily management, administration and delivery of
instruction are inthe hands of the Ministry of Education and Training. The Ministry i s sub-
divided by level of governance. It has Departments of Education andTraining at each province
and Bureaus of Education and Training at each district. There are branches of the national PC
too at each of these levels as well as at the village level. Inthis structure, a certain mode of
matrix management i s being practiced. Each BoET at district level reports both to the PC inthe
district and to the DoET at the provincial level, and each DoET reports both to the provincial PC
and to the MoET at the national level. To a large extent, there i s a culture of "management by



                                                   42

consensus" inthis system, whereby at each level the three parties involved(e.g., BoET, District
PC andDoET) attempt to reachcommonly agreeddecisions. This often requires compromises
and lengthens the time it takes to make important decisions. From a project point of view, it
means that representativesof the education units of the PCs are involvednot only indesign and
planning, but also inimplementation. It means also that the more decision-points there are in
program operations, the longer it will take to implement them.

The levelof functional differentiation inthe systemi s relativelylow, leading among the rest to a
low level of specialization. For example, primary and secondary unitsinBoETs are managed
and operatedby generalists. There i s little differentiatiodspecializationby teaching subjects or
by technical areas. Since functional differentiation i s one of the most important ways to develop
practical expertise, there is abasic shortage of such expertise at all operational levels.

The low levelof functional differentiation means also that functional areas do not have a discrete
organizational home. This translates, inturn, into a general weakness in specialization areas,
formulating policies and strategies, developing standards andnorms or monitoring. There are
three areas where the lack of organizational home and expertise creates important capacity
constraints on the system: special education, information technology and pedagogical
supervision. Special education i s particularly important at this time becauseGovernment i s
trying to provide access to the last 10percent of students who are not yet enrolled-and    these are
mostly disabled and disadvantagedchildren. Pedagogical supervision constraints needto be
highlightedbecausethe systemi s shifting from access to quality and supportive pedagogical
supervision plays an important role inthe raising of instructional quality. Information
technology i s of growing importance becauseof the proliferationof computers inthe system and
the fact that the strengthening of the planning function relies heavily on the deployment of
computers and specialized software. TBS will make acontribution inthis arenaby facilitating
technical assistance andinformation dissemination of existing resourcesto attend to the plight of
special needspopulations. This will complement an overarching policy framework and targeted
interventions under the PrimaryEducation for DisadvantagedChildren. The European
Commission's Support to the Renovation of Education Management Project has a specific focus
on buildingeducational planning, data collection andmanagement, inspectorial and pedagogical
supervisory capacity.

The primaryeducation sub-sector has strong leadership. To beginwith, there are
leaderdmanagers inplace at all levels. At each level there i s a director and two deputy directors
who, together, form the "leadership group." The leadership groups have a vision. They know
well where primary education i s today inVietnam and they know where they want it to be in the
future. They also know it inconcretenumbers, since there i s a very strong culture of information
collection andreporting inVietnam. There are National Guidelinesfor inputsinto the system
which are strictly followed for resource allocation determinations. There are also Fundamental
School Quality Levels and National Standardsfor instructionand learning. These reflect what
the system i s expectedto achieve. Standards are well monitoredthrough the regular collection of
information. The strong culture of information collection also greatly facilitates the development
of policies and strategies. Inother words, the system has direction and leaders who lead. This i s
an important strength from a capacity point of view.




                                                  43

The capacity of the education system to achieve its vision i s limiteddue to the lack of financial
resources. The capacity of the system to mobilize financial resources i s limited, inturn, because
both government andindividual communities are unable to provide as much funding as i s
required. As far as the communities are concerned, there i s a strong culture of community
mobilization inVietnam. The mechanisms and the practices of mobilization are inplace. But
many communities are poor and can contribute only labor and time. Aid organizations make an
important contribution but this cannot cover the financial gap between what the system's vision
requires and what i s available. What i s important, however, i s the fact that Government has not
abandoned its vision: It has turned it into a long-term objective andit i s being ledby it. Though
few innumber, the National Standard schools represent this vision. Inthe long term, all schools
will have to achieve national standards. Achieving the FundamentalSchool Quality Levels i s a
first step inthis direction.

Incontrast, the capacity to systematically allocate the funds that are availableis very strong.
There are norms for almost every kindof input into the system andthere are formulas based on
these norms. Resources are allocated quite strictly inline with these formulas. The system i s
used to operating this way. From a capacity point of view, this i s a strength even if formulas are
not yet "optimal" since it i s more difficult to buildan institutional framework for resource
allocation than to strengthen a functioning system already inplace.

Due to limitedfinancial resources, the Ministry of Education as a whole i s generally under-
staffed, particularly district offices. This can influence either the quality of work being done or
the length of time it takes to do it. It can also limit the amount of additional work that can be
given to the BoETs andpossibly also the DoETs. The capacity of the Government to
decentralize the system and devolve more responsibilities to these levels i s greatly dependent on
the availability of staff there. Thus, the pace o f decentralization needs to be linked to the pace at
which more staff can be mobilized and added to the establishment. For TBS, potential risks are
being mitigatedby providing financing to scale up ongoing activities, rather than creating new
obligations, while minimizing the ODA transactional costs by buyinginto existing Government
reporting and monitoring procedures. The Education NTPtrack record over the past five years
has demonstrated adequate ability to mobilize and absorb increasing sources of financing to
address basic input shortages ineducational establishments.

The general shortage of funds inthe education sector i s reflected also in an inadequate provision
of material resources at the primary education level. Schools and BoETs often do not have
adequate facilities, furniture and equipment. Inprimaryschools, the situation is worst in satellite
campuses. The introduction of FSQL guidelines and the new Inter-Ministerial Circular for the
Education NTPhave established explicit expectations and mechanisms for the allocation of
material resources to school sites.

National TargetedPrograms
NTPsare contributing to the achievement of important development andpoverty alleviation
goals, The many positive impacts o f NTPs have aided to the continuing highrate of economic
growth, considerable poverty reduction and improving living standards over the last 5-10 years.
However, challenges remain including improvingthe focus and management framework o f




                                                    44

NTPs, strengthening procurement processes andpractices andtightening NTPmonitoring and
reporting.

Although the regulatory framework for NTPsi s set by MPIand central ministries and the
programs are managed according to central decisions, provinces are really the key decision
makers as to how resources are used on the ground. This situation has been reinforcedby recent
changes to the State Budget Law which have further increasedprovincial autonomy. Provinces
are expected to delegate responsibility to districts and communes but, inpractice, they retain
control over large elements of decentralized programs. The role o f districts and communes in
managing projects has tended to be limited. Participation by local people inNTP decision-
making and supervision also falls short of the principles espoused in guiding documents.

A challenge to Vietnam inthe implementation of NTPsis the quality of NTPmanagement
resources. Qualifications of responsible officials at sub-provincial level are limited. From a
national perspective, local officials (incommunes, villages and boards of management and
supervision) are not yet sufficiently competent. A Ministry o f Planning and Investment's NTP
assessmenthighlightslimitedlocal capacity and weak linkages between inputs and outcomes.
"Many localities considered NTPs as an additional subsidy to be equally distributedwithout
attention to outcomes. Therefore, inthese provinces, NTPshave not gained good results."

On the other hand, an exhaustive UNDP-financedExpenditure Tracking Survey inSOCTrang
province revealedthat local capacity was not found to be a bindingproblem. Managers at
provincial and district levels are qualified enough to manage the programs andprovincial
authorities believe all districts can manage and implement NTPs. Commune level staff are
capable of managing programs under appropriate financial and management guidelines.

As arguedinthe 2005 IntegratedFiduciary Assessment andPublic ExpenditureReview
(IFAPER),there is evidence that NTPsare not weak infiduciary terms andthey represent
reasonable value for money. Hence, there i s a strong case for both more targeting of mainstream
fundingto the poorest as well as, within macro resource constraints, placing more resources in
NTPs.

The main contributions of TBS to Education NTPinstitutional strengthening are twofold. First,
improvements in the focus and management framework will increase NTP effectiveness and
consistency. Provinces and districts will receive a summary diagnostic o f FSQL deficiencies. A
clear targeting policy, laid out inthe Inter-Ministerial Circular, describing a menu of options and
outcome expectations can ease implementation while supporting decentralized decision-making,
Moreover, this approach will help increase program focus and sharpen outcome monitoring.
Second, the capacity buildingprogram under Component 2 will support the systematic
improvement of skills at decentralized levels for NTPimplementation. Inaddition, local
consultation and participation inNTPmanagement andmonitoring will be financed through this
facility.




                                                  45

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
            VIETNAM: TBSfor NATIONALEFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION

Summary

An assessment of financial management arrangements was conducted duringprogram
preparation and found to be acceptable. The project will be implementedby MoET and
management responsibility for the NTPlies with the Ministry's Department of Planningand
Finance. MoET, and inparticular the Budgeting Section -NTPManagement Unit inthe
Department of Planning andFinance, has hadextensive experience with World Bank projects
and financial management. Implementation will be carried out at the provincial and district
levels. Capacity support andimprovement will be provided by Component 2 of the project
(which will be funded from parallel bilateral donor funds) and separatebilateral and World Bank
projects which will focus on buildingplanning, management, procurement andfinancial
management capacity throughout MoET.

The project will provide additional IDA funds, which will be pooled with bilateral grants and
government funds, for the EducationNational Targeted Program. The project's funds will be
budgeted, accounted, reported andcontrolled in accordance with Government financial
regulations and procedures usingGovernment's financial systems. The Joint Inter-Ministerial
Circular for the Education NTP will specify requirements inrelation to the allocation and use of
funds, accounting, reporting and controls.

The project funds will be channelled through a dedicated Foreign Exchange Account at the State
Bank of Vietnam and then credited to the NTPbudget accounts. Government will provide a
report on the balances and transactions of the dedicated Foreign Exchange Account to TBS
Partners semi-annually. The project will use the report transaction based disbursement method
with annual disbursement of funds inthe third quarter of the fiscal year linkedto agreed
performance benchmarks for project progress. Semi-annual financial monitoring reports and
annual financial statements for the NTP sub-components supported b y the project will be
produced. The financial reports will be submitted to TBS Partners within 45 days after the end
of the previous semester. The annual financial statements will be auditedby an independent
auditor acceptable to TBS Partners and the audit will be conductedin accordance with
International Standards of Auditing and terms of reference acceptable to TBS Partners. The
annual audit report and financial statements must be submitted to TBS Partners within six
months after the end o f the financial year.

Countryfinancialissues

In2001, IDAconducteda Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)which has
been updatedin Chapter 5 of the IntegratedFiduciary Assessment andPublic Expenditure
Review. A number of actions were taken inresponse to the 2001 CFAA, mostly interms o f
strengthening the oversight of public expenditure. These include the passing of a new budget
law in2002 (effective 2004), in which the National Assembly i s given a much greater role in
reviewing budget proposals. In2003, the National Assembly approvedthe first accounting law


                                                46

inVietnam.4 The law is applicable to the public andprivate sectors as well as to State Owned
Enterprises (SOEs). It also establishes a legal framework for setting accounting standards. The
Ministry of Finance was assigned the task of developing andpromulgating Vietnamese
Accounting Standards on the basis of International Accounting Standards. The law made a
distinction between financial accounting andmanagement accounting and specified that M o F
would provide guidance on the application of management accounting. Decree No. 46 of May 9,
2003 assigns to the State Inspection Office the role of an anti-comption agency. The Office
will: (i)  review the entire legal framework to reduce the incentives for corruption; (ii) on         focus
prevention; and (iii)    be in charge o f assets declaration by civil servants and speedy handlingof
any public denunciations. The State Treasury has been nominated as the single office
responsible for accounting and financial reporting. A tender i s underway for a new Treasury and
Budget Management Information System (TABMIS). Work i s also underway to establish a
UnifiedChart of Accounts. To clarify the functions and powers of the State Audit of Vietnam
(SAV), SRV issuedDecree No. 93/2003/ND-CP of August 13,2003 and a new Audit Law i s
currently under consideration by the National Assembly. InNovember 2004, SRV determined
that the SAV will report directly to the National Assembly.

Article 67 of the State Budget Law requires that Provincial People's Councils specify the
timeline for subordinate units, including districts, to submit final accounts, the deadline to be not
more than six months after the end of the financial year. Further, Article 73 of Decree 60 o f June
6, 2003 specifies that independent external auditors are allowed to be usedto audit special
programs, including National Target Programs. SAV has indicatedthat it would have the
capacity to audit the Education NTPina timely manner if this were to be included inits annual
~ o r k p l a n .MoET, however, has agreed to contract private audit agencies to carry out part or all
                 ~
of the work.

InOctober 2003, the World Bank co-financedPublic FinancialManagementProject was
launchedwith two components of direct relevance to the management of sectoral public
expenditure. Component 1involves the development and gradual implementation of the new
TABMIS, which will eventually provide an integratedfinancial management system to all
provincial and state treasury offices. Component 2 supports the development of a medium term
expenditure framework (MTEF)startingwith four pilot sectors, one of which i s education, and
four pilot provinces.

The FAPER reports positively on the initial implementationof the educationMTEFpilot. A
first draft of the education MTEFwas preparedinDecember 2004. It i s expected that the
education sector will be able to develop a fully integratedMTEFfor the 2006 cycle just as TBS
will begin its first full year of implementation (Year 1). Also, UNESCO with the support of
CIDA andthe World Bank has completeda pilot for a provincial educational planning model in
10provinces, with the expectation of rollingit out to all provinces as part of the next 5-year
Socio Economic Development Plan cycle. This i s informing MoET's current work to prepare


  ~~~     ~




  Accounting Law No. 03/2003/QH11 promulgated on June 17,2003 andeffective January 1,2004.
  It could be, however, that this would take up an inappropriate quantumof the Office's capacity. According to the
GovernmentInspectorateResearchInstitute, Mechanism on Oversight, Auditing and Inspection in Vietnam (Hanoi:
Judicial Publishing House, 2004), the total number of professional auditors inthe State Audit Office in2003 was
414.


                                                         47

national, provincial and institutional5-year plans for education, with support from DFIDandthe
EC  .

Riskassessment

Therei s a significant inherent riskinthe program arising from the overall resourcemanagement
context. The project could possibly reinforce existing allocative inefficiencies inthe education
systemrather than act as an important agent for change. There are substantial needs inthe
education systeminterms of bothprovidinginputsto enhancequality (e.g., infrastructure,
teacher training, books and equipment) andinensuringthat these inputstranslate into
commensurateeducation outcomes. Inpart,the risk i s addressedby the substantial and growing
domestic resources being addedto address these shortcomings. Other mitigating factors include
the MTEFprocess, the provincial 5-year education plan development andthe strong commitment
by provincial/district leadership and administrative units to the improvement of education.
Nonetheless, current central sector influence by MoET i s largely indirect, particularly with
respect to resource allocation. Both provinces and MoF/MPI possess much stronger levers to
influence change. As part of the processfor redressingthis balance and to give more levers to
MoET to implement national education policy, this project will strengthenMoET andits
subsidiary bodies intheir planning, targeting, monitoring and evaluation functions for the NTP
so that they can exercise more influence over resourceallocation policy for education more
broadly.

NTPs are national programs, governed by Inter-MinisterialCirculars, definingtheir purpose,
scope and the allowable use of NTP funds. Becauseof the national nature of the Education NTP,
the inability of subordinate levels of Government to vire centrally-provided funds out of the
education NTP and the strict expenditure control exercisedby Treasury, it i s to be expectedthat
funds allocated from TBS to the EducationNTPwill be spent inaccordancewith the guidance
set out inthe Inter-MinisterialCircular governing its sub-components. Becausethe Circular i s
drafted and approved by MoET and MoF, this gives the central authorities, and MoET in
particular, influence over education programming on the ground.

Currently, the Inter-Ministerial Circular governing the education NTP does not, ingeneral,
restrict expenditure to any particular level or sub-sector of education. The revised Circular will:
(1)make explicit to provinces anddistricts that they are receiving increasedallocations inpart in
order to reduceFSQL deficits in schools; (2) alert provinces and districts (a) that their
expenditures will be tracked through the Treasury system and (b) that they will be requiredto
report on implementation progress; (3) informprovinces and districts that, if they fail to reduce
FSQL deficiencies or to report on progress, they may receive a reduced allocation the following
year; and (4) provide a listing of indicativeFSQL deficits by district and school and a menuof
options for reducing them.

Interms of controlrisk,the overall control of funds is good andleakagesof funds from the
system are assessedto be limited. However, the absence of transparent audit arrangements as
well as in-year reporting (through the education channels as opposedto Treasury systems) makes
this difficult to appraise. The improvements infinancial reporting will assist inreducing this
control risk.



                                                 48

Enquiries at the district level indicate that the "protection" of education NTPfunds as direct
funds that mustbe used only inaccordance with the guidance containedinthe Inter-Ministerial
Circular issued each year i s well understood and respected. At district level, BoF i s responsible
for approval of quarterly expenditure plans and ensuring their compliance with the Circular. The
district Treasury scrutinizes documents for compliance before releasing funds. However, final
decisions on the allocation of NTPfunds, other than construction funds received as designated
for specific projects, i s the prerogative of the District People's Committee. The detailed
allocation of TBS-NTP funds to particular schools and expenditure items i s vulnerable to non-
educational influences from the People's Committee and technical agencies at district level other
than BoET. This risk will be mitigatedb y careful crafting of the Circular on appropriate use of
NTPfunds.

The World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Vietnam (2003- 2006) notes that "corruption
i s a significant and growing problem in Vietnam, andposes risks for the Bank and for Vietnam's
development.'' The Education NTP i s at risk of the public obtaining poor value for money as a
result of corrupt practices as much as any other SRV public expenditure. Regarding financial
management systems, the major forms of corruption have involved deliveries that do not match
invoices and diversion of funds intendedto other purposes. To address these risks, there will be
an audit requirement of the Education NTP and guidelines for information dissemination and
transparency steps at beneficiary level via the Inter-Ministerial Circular. Inaddition,
involvement of social organizations inlocal level oversight and monitoring will be promoted.

                                                       ~~




                   RISK                    RISK RATING              RISKMITIGATIONMEASURES

  Inherent Risk
  1.Overall FiscalEnvironment           Substantial           Reporting o f expenditures comparable to
                                                              baseline data; MTEFprocess (draft MTEF
                                                              prepared and final inprogress for 2006
                                                              onwards); central NTP allocations are
                                                              "protected" down to spending units -NTP
                                                              fundscannot be vired to other
                                                              programs/activities.
  2. NTP funding i s not used for       Modest                Draft Inter-Ministerial Circular contents
  reducing FSQL-deficits specifically                         agreed with MoET, MoF and MPI and covers
                                                              allocations and FMrequirements for TBS;
                                                              Inter-Ministerial Instruction will be issued for
                                                              initial pilot periodfor application insix pilot
                                                              provinces; disbursement covenant inDCA
                                                              requiring Education NTP Inter-Ministerial
                                                              Circular to be issued.
  3. Corrupt practices                  Modest                Inter-Ministerial Circular to include
                                                              guidelines on informationdisseminationo f
                                                              Education NTP allocations and expenditures
                                                              at beneficiary level; encouragement of
                                                              involvement of social organizations inlocal
                                                              level monitoring; external audit results and
                                                              findings are followed up to identify and
                                                              address cases of corruption.




                                                         49

                 RISK             I                       RISKMITIGATION        MEASURES
                                      RISKRATING
OverallInherent Risk                Substantial


Control Risk                       I
1.Implementing Entity               Modest          10years of experience with NTP; continuous
                                                    technical assistance engagement; the
                                                    Department of Planning and Financeo f MoET
                                                    has responsibility for the Education NTP and
                                                    has experience with Bank projects and
                                                    requirements.
2. FundsFlow                        Low             Separateforeign currency account at SBV and
                                                    credit of funds to the NTP sub-components in
                                                    the annual budget; overall allocation of funds
                                                    conditional on demonstrating additional
                                                    expenditure to current government funding
                                                    levels of the NTP sub-components and
                                                    demonstrating adequateprogress in
                                                    eliminating FSQL deficiencies (as measured
                                                    by annual FSQL district audits).
3. Staffing                         Low             Counterpart staff already operating effectively
                                                    with NTP and ODA project experience. The
                                                    Senior Officer of the budget unit of the
                                                    Planning and FinanceDepartment managing
                                                    the EducationNTPhas previous experience as
                                                    Chief Accountant of World Bank projects, as
                                                    well as experience and responsibility for
                                                    budgeting and financing of Ministry
                                                    programs/activities.
4. Accounting Policy & Procedures.  Modest          TBS funds will be accounted, reported and
                                                    controlled inaccordance with Government
                                                    financial regulations and procedures using
                                                    Government's financial systems; instructions
                                                    on compliance with Government decrees on
                                                    financial management and control, budgeting
                                                    and payment procedures and on specific NTP
                                                    accounting, reporting and auditing
                                                    requirements will be included in the Inter-
                                                    Ministerial Circular governing the Education
                                                    NTP.
5. Internal Audit                   Substantial     IFAF'ER proposes specific recommendations;
                                                    an NTP monitoring team within MoET will be
                                                    set up and carry out supervision reviews of
                                                    provincial and selected districtkommune
                                                    education operations every six months
                                                    focusing on checking expenditures against
                                                    proper use and disbursement levels; State
I                                                   Audit of Vietnam to conduct audits of the
                                                    Education NTP (included in2005 SAV
                                                    approved audit program).




                                               50

c6. External Audit                   Modest              Annual Financial Audit of EducationNTP by
                                                         independent external auditors with submission
                                                         of audit report and financial statementswithin
                                                         six months o f the end of the financial year;
                                                         proper use of value for money audits; separate
                                                         performance reviews and procurement audits
                                                         by independent external agents; annual
                                                         DistrictFSQL reviews by MoET with external
L                                                        technical assistanceto establish allocations of
                                                         NTP resources to schools based on FSQL
                                                         criteria.
 7.Reporting & Monitoring            Modest              Established quarterly financial reporting by
                                                         State Treasury and MoET for schools,
                                                         districts and provinces for NTP will continue;
                                                         Chart of Accounts modified to incorporate
                                                         additional reporting on NTP sub-components
                                                         andFSQL sub-codes; semi-annual financial
                                                         monitoring reports incorporating financial
                                                         reports and progress inproject
                                                         implementation; annual financial statements
                                                         for NTP sub-components for which the
                                                         project i s providing additional funding; annual
I                                                        audited financial statements.
 8. Information Systems              Modest              Technical assistanceto Treasury to ensure
                                                         more complete MoET expenditure reports
                                                          (KTKE304) provided; modification of existing
                                                          systedchart o f Accounts to enable the
                                                          recording and reporting of expenditure by
                                                          schools inall districts (scheduled for
                                                          completion in2007/08); introduction of
I                                                         TABMIS under Public Financial Management
                                                          Reform Project; capacity building and
                                                          technical assistancethrough Component 2 and

I                                                         parallel bilateral- and World Bank-funded
                                                          projects

 Overall Control Risk                Modest



EFA programandfinancingplan

The EducationNTP is avehicle for addressingspecific Government priorities andproviding
funding to disadvantagedareas. SRV has been devoting increasing volumes of funds to the
Education NTP, but resources currently available must address several competing demands
 across sub-sectors and are insufficient to eliminate FSQLdeficits inthe short-term.

The TBS Project has 2 components: Component 1-TBS          to the Education NTP and Component
2-Institutional   Strengthening for NTPAdministration and Implementation. IDA funds will
only be usedfor Component 1of the project. IDA proposes to provide a US$50 million credit as
additional fundingfor selectedNTP sub-components. Total additional grant funding i s
anticipated to be US$78 million, among several donor partnersincluding Belgium, Canada, the
European Commission, New Zealand and the UnitedKingdom.


                                                  51

The project i s expectedto commencein 2005 (inception period) in six pilot provinces and then
beimplemented over the following three financial years: 2006,2007 and 2008 in all provinces
where the Education NTPoperates. An indicative financing plan i s shown below. The total
annual contributionto the NTPunder Component 1will be determined as a percentageof
eligible expenses inexcess of abaseline amount identifiedinthe program up to the maximum
specified. The annual contribution by TBS Partners will be determined on a proportional basis to
their overall contribution, with the exception that inthe inception period(Year 0) an advance of
US$2.5 million will be provided from IDA funds and will be distributed among six pilot
provinces (YenBai andHoaBinhinthe North, HaTinh and Quang inthe Central Zone, and
Dong Thap and BenTre in the South).




Component 2 on capacity building will be parallel financed by bilateraldonor partners and will
be covered by separatebilateral arrangementsbetween the UnitedKingdom and Canadaand the
Socialist Republic of Vietnam.

The NTP sub-componentsthat TBS partnerswill finance will add resourcesto those already
provided by SRV for the Education NTP. Performance will be monitoredby SRV andTBS
Partners. Under the project, TBS Partnerswill subscribe to the use of SRV systems for
procurement, disbursement, financial managementand accounting of the Education NTP, which
will include donor funds commingled with SRV State budget funds.

Financial management system

The NTP, as part of the Statebudgetof Vietnam, is processedand accountedfor through SRV
standardfinancial management systems. Funds are allocated by decision of the People's
Committee at each level (National Assembly, Provincial People's Committee, District People's
Committee) following recommendations by the equivalent levelFinance agency (MoF, DoF,


                                                 52

BoF) acting on proposals made by the relevant level Education and Training agency (MoET,
DoET, BoET), with comments by the relevant level Planning and Investment agency (MPI,DPI,
District Projects Bureau) and possibly other technical agencies. Central allocations to the
Education NTP must be used within the Education NTP, although with the exception of NTP
sub-component 2 (curriculum andtextbooks/teaching methods) funds can be vired at provincial
or district level between sub-components of the NTP.The funds cannot be vired to other
programs, projects or budget lines.

The EducationNTPi s governed by an annual Inter-Ministerial Circular issued by MoET and
M o F which defines the purpose, allowed expenditure items and applicable cost norms if any, for
each of the sub-components.

Funds are heldinthe StateTreasury system and disbursed by cheque against production of
appropriate documentation as required by regulations. It i s also the responsibility of Treasury at
each level to ensure that disbursement requests are consistent with the applicable guidance-in
the case o f the EducationNTP, the Inter-Ministerial Circular. This i s an ex ante scrutiny:
Treasury inspects the documentation and issues payment if the documentation i s inorder and
consistent with the guidelines. Treasury does not have an inspection or audit function.

Where beneficiaries cannot be paid by cheque, the relevant district office (BoET) will normally
take an advance by cheque and then make on-payments incash, liquidating the advance within a
calendar month with appropriate documentation. For example, this i s how most rural primary
school teachers are paid, where the school director collects cash for the payroll from BoET or
Treasury andthen collects receipt signatures from teachers.

There are two accounting systems operating (the primary system in State Treasury andthe sub-
ordinate system with MoET); however, the two systems are not universally well integrated. The
Treasury system i s fully automated and links vertically from district to province to Hanoi, using
an Oracle-based locally developed system known as KTKB04.6 Itrecords all expenditures of
State budget funds, whether of central or provincial origin, with account, beneficiary, item object
code and other detail such as source of funds for the expenditure. Expenditure reports from
Treasury are produced monthly, quarterly and annually. These currently are transmitted to BoF,
DoF, MoF, but not to the managing agencies (DoETs, BoETs) o f the Education NTPon a regular
bask7

Inparallel with State Treasury, MoET also keeps accounts andrecords of use of funds.* BoETs
are at different stages in computerising their financial management systems. They use a variety
of software solutions (e.g., Dynamic Accounting System -DAS; MISA; M A S ; Danang-
Haiphongjoint venture Excel templates) and computers often provided by other projects. There
are districts in some provinces that still use manual systems to maintain their accounts. These

 ~~




 This is the systemthat will bereplacedby TABMIS.
 Managing agencies for two other NTPs-Program       135 and the 5,000 HectaresForestry Program-already receive
expenditurereportsdirectly from Treasury.
 BoETs almost always haveexpenditure databy school, whereas inthose districts where primary schools do not
have their own accounts with Treasury yet, but deal with Treasury via BoET, Treasury can only generate
expenditurereports for all primary schools inthe district as a single aggregate. BoET, however, will haverecords
by school.


                                                         53

accounting systems typically provide effectively memorandum accounts, which are not central to
the operation of TBS except inthose districts where schools do not have their own Treasury
accounts or codes. In such districts, BoET handles the finances of all schools it manages and the
financial management i s satisfactory. BoET accounts also support the overall control function,
particularly the use o f cash advances and acquittals as well as providing an alternative source of
information inthe event of problems and delays with the Treasury KTKB04 accounting system.

The most common practice i s that BoET formally reconciles its accounts with BoF (the latter
derived from State Treasury) quarterly, although inmany districts such reconciliation i s done
informally on a monthly basis. This i s not always a universal practice. There are districts in
which BoETs may have little or no role infinancial management, e.g., if schools each have their
own account with Treasury andreceive notification of their allocations direct from BoF or the
People's Committee. Also, reconciliationi s not always perfect for a variety of reasons, not least
that there i s not a common Chart of Accounts between Treasury and operational agencies,
although it i s expected that a common Chart of Accounts will be implemented for the public
sector relatively soon as recommended by the PAPER.

Inadditionto the reconciliation with BoF, BoETs are requiredto make quarterly andannual
reports of their budgetary situation (expenditure plans, receipts and actual expenditures) to
DoET. DoETs normally reconcile with DoFs and report to MoET. A parallel set of financial
management accounts are generated inMoET; however, it suffers from some inconsistencies,
lack of a standardized computerized accounting system and sometimes late or non-reporting
from subordinate to higher units. Typically, there are no financial sanctions for late or
inadequate reporting on the Education side because allocations are ultimately made on the
recommendationof MoF, which receives timely information on actual expenditures from the
Treasury system.

The primary financial records of the Education NTP are the State Treasury accountingrecords
which are reliably maintained and from which timely financial reports of expenditures on NTPs
at all levels (central, provincial and district - and inmany districts b y school) are available.
State Treasuries at the provincial and district levels currently monitor andreport on expenditure
of NTPfunds by source of funds and type of expenditure. Current developments inthe
accounting system will enable the recording of each expenditure transaction by school/location
throughout the country. This process i s scheduled to be complete in2007/08.

PlanningandBudgeting

The EducationNTP (which will include TBS funding) will be managed inaccordance with the
BudgetLaw andJoint Inter-Ministerial Circular. The basic structure of planning andbudgeting
i s that, at all levels, Education and Training (E&T) agencies make proposals to Finance agencies,
inconsultationwith other technical agencies (principally Planning andInvestment) andthen
make a proposal to the relevant People's Committee. The People's Committee makes the final
decision on budgets. The process and the degree of consultation andcomity between Finance
and E&T agencies can vary substantially. Insome localities, actual decision making power i s
effectively delegated to either Finance or E&T, inother localities Finance may make decisions




                                                   54

without conferring with E&T and in yet others the People's Committee may act contrary to the
recommendations of Finance andE&T.

Planning andbudgeting for NTPsi s somewhat different from the regular Statebudget, inthat
funds inthe Education NTP cannot be viredout of it. Useof the EducationNTP funds is
governed by detailed guidancelaidout inthejoint Inter-MinisterialCircular. The TBS project
will complement limitedbudget levels within each province for education and training for
capital, recurrent and NTPexpenditures. Baseline informationwill be usedto assess the
additional contribution of TBS funds to the Government Education NTP. TBS Partners will
ensure that the intentfor project support i s achieved through: (a) reaching agreement on the
wording of the Inter-MinisterialCircular; (b) providingtechnical assistanceto provincial and
district levelE&T staff inplanning andbudgetingfor FSQL reduction through Component 2
activities; and (c) providingprovinces and districts with indicative lists of FSQL deficits by
district and school to assistplanning. Future funding i s conditional upon demonstration of
additional expenditures (compared to the baseline) and adequateprogress inreducing FSQL
deficiencies.

Financialmanagementimplementationarrangementsand staffing

The implementing entity will be the Ministry of Education andTraining. Currently, six of the
seven sub-componentsof the Education NTP are administered by MoETS9The recurrent budget
allocation to MoET from MoF covers this activity. An agreementhas been reachedwith MoET
and MoF that there will be no Project Management Unitfor the TBS Project. MoF and MoET
will finance and provide the necessarystaffing to handlethe management, monitoring and
reporting requirements as necessaryas part of SRV's counterpart contributionto the project. It i s
envisagedthat TBS will add approximately 12percent of the current total volume of funds (or 24
percent of the central level Government contribution) flowing through the relevant sub-
components of the Education NTP. The Planning andFinance Department within MoET i s the
management unit responsible for overseeing planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of the Education NTP, and more specifically the BudgetingSection - NTP
Management Unit has responsibility for NTPbudgets, management and financial reporting. The
Senior Officer of the Budgeting Section has extensive experience with Bank requirements (has
worked with two Bank projects as Chief Accountant). TBS will further support monitoring and
reporting procedures of the Finance and Planning Departmentof MoET, which managesthe
Education NTP.

DoETs andBoETs ingeneral have the capacity to administer the program with current staffing
levels. The management costs for NTPs are fundedfrom the regular State budget allocation and
all NTPfunds mustbe usedfor NTPpurposes. This causes problems inpoorer (deficit)
provinces becausethe managementcosts for NTPs are regarded as part of the local contribution
to the State budget and are not includedinthe central allocation of funds to the provinces. In
such provinces, any additional administrative costs associatedwith TBS may be hardto finance
from local sources. This i s considered to be a modest risk.




 The seventh is administered by the Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs.


                                                        55

The majority o f DoETs supply annual financial management training to BoET staff. Component
2 will supply additional technical assistanceto localities where institutional strengthening
support i s needed to manage NTPfunds at district level. Inaddition to technical assistanceto be
provided under the project, SRV itself has a large-scale financial management training program
for E&T staff.

Capacity buildingi s recognized as critical to continue to buildand sustainimprovements in
education. Capacity buildinginitiatives directly relatedto the TBS project include:

    0  Component 2-Institutional Strengthening for NTP administration and implementation.
       The focus will be on providing technical assistance to MoET to support provinces in
       planning (targeting of schools) and NTPmanagement andreporting. It will fund, as
       required, the costs of independent procurement and financial audits as well as associated
       training programs. The capacity buildingplan will be formalized, based on lessons
       learned from the inception period. It will be implementednationally so as to strengthen
       institutional capacity for NTP administration.
    0  MoET's current work, with support from DFIDand the EC, to prepare national,
       provincial and institutional 5-year plans (2006-2010) for education. This includes the
       provision of guidelines; national, regional andprovincial workshops; mentoring b y
       national specialists and other "help function" activities.
       The EC will be providing support through SREM, a parallel bilateral project. The project
       will undertake capacity buildingto strengthen planning and management capacity at
       central and local level (province and district) and development and utilization of
       educational and financial management information systems.
       The BuildingCapacity for Education Planning Project (CJDA trust-funded) will focus on
       developing planning and management capacity ineducation departments andbureaus at
       provincial and district levels. A pilot program inten provinces has recently been
       successfully completed.
       The PEDCProject i s providing continuous capacity buildingin education management in
       over 200 districts and finances an annual national FSQLDistrict Audit.

Internal controls

The major internal control mechanisms are the pre-disbursement scrutiny o f documents by
Treasury and the inspection functions of MoET and the State Inspection Office. An NTP
monitoring team within MoET will be set up. The MoET monitoring team will carry out
supervision reviews of provincial and selected district and commune education operations every
six months. The reviews will focus on checking expenditures against proper use and
disbursement levels.

State Audit of Vietnam (SAV) will conduct audits of the Education NTP. This i s already
includedinthe 2005 approved audit program. Inaddition, the Education NTP sub-components
supported by TBS will be subject to independent external audits annually.




                                                 56

Accounting

The Treasury will use the accounting systemreleasedby MoFin2004, reflectingchanges inthe
revised Budget Law (2003). The accounting systemis usedconsistently from central to
provincial to district levels. Separatebudget line items for NTPexpenditures are included inthe
Treasury Chart of Accounts.

The Joint Inter-MinisterialCircular for 2006-2010 for the EducationNTPissuedby MoET and
MoF will incorporate specific requirementsand instructions on financial management
arrangements. A draft of the Circular will be issuedin2005 inthe form of an Inter-Ministerial
Instructionfor the six pilot provinces during the inception period of the project. The final
Circular will be improvedbasedon the experience of the inception period. It has been agreed
with Government that the Circular will include specific instructions and requirements inrespect
to the following:

         Budget allocations and outcomes
         Eligible expenditures
         Reporting processes and requirementsincluding formats for identifyingactivities and
         expenditures at various levels of Government, includingthe requirement for six-monthly
         F M R s and annual financial statements
         Timelines for reporting
         Requirement to comply with budget andpayment procedures (as set out inDecision 291
         of 19 April 2004 from StateTreasury)
         Auditing arrangements.

Financial reportingand monitoring

There are two standardkey reporting channels that operate within the Education NTP. The first
one i s through Treasury. As a matter of routine financial managementresponsibility, Treasury
will report to MoET each quarter, within 30 days of the end of the quarter, expenditures under
each of the Education NTP sub-components, disaggregatedby sub-component, level of
schooling (pre-primary, primary, lower secondary, upper secondary, higher and other), province
and district for the quarter inquestion, the year to date and for the preceding year." MoET will
have responsibility to ensure that the Treasury expenditure report i s received in atimely fashion.

For each six-month period, MoET will provide financial monitoringreports (FMRs) to TBS
Partners within 45 days of the end of each semestertogether with reports on project progress.
Thereports will include informationon sources anduses of funds by NTPsub-component by
school level and summarizedby districts and provinces together with reports on project progress.
The NTPManaging Unit inMoET`s Finance andPlanningDepartmentwill be responsible for


loCurrently, Treasury sends to MoF areport covering all NTPs. For each NTP sub-componentthe report states: (a)
plannedexpenditure, (b) receiptsby whether recurrent, capital or "lump sum" (chuyen von,funds that canbe used
for either recurrentor capital), (c) total expenditures from all sources and (d) State budget expenditures by whether
advanceor against vouchers/invoices. This information i s provided for central and provincial funds for the current
year and the previous year. This report is already submitted to the managing agency for two NTPs, Program 135
and the 5,000 HectareForestry Program. The Treasury can provide similar reports to MoET.


                                                           57

preparation andissue of the F M R s within the requiredtime frame. Theformat of thefinancial
monitoring reports has been agreed with State Treasury and MoET during project Negotiations.

The second reporting channel i s through MoET. BoETs will prepare annual progress reports
against baseline lists of FSQL-related shortfalls and associated expenditures disaggregated by
NTPsub-component or other source. These will be submittedto DoETs which will consolidate
them, add details of actions and expenditures undertaken at provincial level and submit the
provincial report to MoET. MoET will then compile and submit to TBS Partners a
comprehensive national progress report no later than June 30 of each calendar year.

Ithas been agreed with MoET andMoFthat the Inter-MinisterialCircular for the EducationNTP
will include: (i) annual progress report requirement, (ii) requirement for Treasury to
                 an                                         the
compile NTPexpenditure reports by district and expenditure type, (iii)    an instruction for District
Treasuries to provide BoETs and Provincial Treasuries to DoETs quarterly expenditure reports
on the Education NTP, (iv) BoETs andDoETs responsibility for reconciling their internal
financial records on NTPexpenditures andprogress on FSQLdeficiency reduction with the
Treasury expenditure reports.

MoET will have overall monitoring responsibility, supplemented by additional reviews and spot-
checks by consultants contracted through Component 2 and further supplemented by semi-
annual supervisions by TBS Partners.

Fundsflow anddisbursementarrangements

Allocation of IDA Credit:

  Category                      Amount of the Credit     % of Expendituresto be Financed
                                    Allocated US$
  1.EligibleExpendituresunder                            Such amount of EligibleExpenditures as the
 ProvincialAnnual Work Plans           $50,000,000      Borrower and the Association may mutually
                                                         agree uponfor any Fiscal Year.

            TOTAL                      $50,000,000


From donor to Government
Disbursement of project funds will be on the report based method with an initial advance to
cover forecast expenditures and in accordance with the agreed funding arrangements (as set out
below). Disbursements of project funds will be made annually in the third quarter of the fiscal
year on the basis of submission of a Withdrawal Application and supporting FMRs. Semi-
annual F M R s will be submitted to TBS Partners within 45 days of the end of each semester.

A separate special Foreign ExchangeAccount will be established inthe State Bank of Vietnam
to receive funds from donors. This will be a U.S. dollar account with separate sub-accounts to
permit the receipt of funds in various currencies. Receipts will be transferred into VND counter
value within five working days of receipt at an exchange rate not more than 0.5 percent below
the market rate which i s the State Bank of Vietnam selling rate. Funds will then be transferred to



                                                 58

the State Treasury Account for credit to the EducationNTP. The SBV will not charge a
commission for maintaining this account.

Government, through SBV, will: (i)     report to IDA the amount receivedinto the Deposit Account
 at the Central Bank; (ii) provide confirmation of the amounts withdrawn from the Foreign
Exchange Account and the equivalent amounts credited inlocal currency to the NTP accounts
usedfor budget expenditures, including the date and namehumber of the Government's bank
 account into which the local currency amounts have been deposited, and (iii)   ensure that project
proceeds are usedfor budgeted public expenditures. If the proceeds of the Credit or any part of
the Credit proceeds are used for ineligible purposes, as defined inthe Development Credit
Agreement, IDA will require Government to either return the amount to the Foreign Exchange
Account or refund the amount directly to TBS Partners. The Foreign Exchange Account and
related fund flows to and from the accounts will be independently audited upon request by TBS
Partners in accordance with terms of reference to be agreed with TBS Partners.

TBS Partners will provide a schedule of proposed disbursements for the inceptionperiod (Year
0) and each of the subsequent three years of the project. This schedule will approximate 5% of
the total inthe inception period (proceeding exclusively from IDA funds), 30% inthe first year
 (35% for all TBS Partners other than the World Bank), 35% inthe second year, and 30% in the
third year. Donors will make firmcommitments under the project by September 15 before the
 start of the financial year to which the commitments relate. The project i s expected to be
completed on or about December 31,2008 and will close on June 30,2009. Disbursements from
TBS Partners to the SBV will:

     0   Adhere to individual donor legal and institutional requirements,
     0   Be consistent with the NTP account containing sufficient funds to support the expected
         level of spending, and
     0   Take place annually inthe third quarter o f the fiscal year for each year (the disbursement
         for the inception period will take place when the project becomes effective).

The donor commitments will represent the maximum drawdown for the year. The actual
drawdown will be the donor partner share of total actual expenditure, calculated ex post.
Disbursements will represent reimbursements to incurred eligible expenditures duringthe first
half of the fiscal year and advances sufficient to permit expected expenditures for the remainder
of the year in line with commitments made by TBS Partners. Any overpayments made inthe
preceding period will be offset by reducing payments for the next period.

Project expenditure shall be defined as an agreed percentage of total expenditures through the
agreed sub-components of the Education NTPfor the benefit of primary schools and other
agreed educational institutions (such as pre-primary schools or creches), less any notional TBS
contribution towards that expenditure in the previous year. These percentages may vary from
year to year. The percentages shall be agreed between donors and SRV duringthe annual review
meetings for the year in question.

Disbursements will be linkedto the following benchmarks, to be monitored and discussed during
joint mid-year supervisions and annual reviews:



                                                  59

   Process:
       9 Organize a mid-year supervision and an annual review meetingwith IDA and other
           TBS Partners to review NTP implementation and progress in achievement of project
           objectives.
       9 For2006 releaseto take place, issue anew Inter-MinisterialCircular for the
           Education NTP2006-2010 cycle andimplement a coding structure consistentwith its
           provisions.
       9 Submissionof anannualEducationNTPworkprogramfor the forthcoming yearno
           later than November 30 of every year.
       9 Submissionof anEducationNTPannualprogressreport nolaterthanJune30ofeach
           year.
       9 Submission ofFinancialMonitoringReports(FMRs)semi-annually nolaterthan45
           days after the endof each semester.
       9 Submissionof auditreportsnolaterthanJune30ofeachyear, whiletheTBS
           Partnersreservethe option of conducting independent audits inconsultation with
           SRV.
        9 Submissionof annualprocurementauditsnolater thanJune30of each year, while
           the TBS Partnersreservethe option of conducting post reviews inconsultation with
           SRV.
        9 Ifconductedbyindependentfirms, procurement andfinancial auditsmaybefinanced
           from capacity building technical assistancefund (Component 2).

       Performance:
        9 Demonstrating adequateprogressinreducingFSQL-deficitsthrough theperformance
           indicators outlinedinAnnex 3, commensuratewith the overall level of expenditure.
           "Adequate progress" will be defined through yearly performance targets to be agreed
           upon with SRV.

        Expenditure:
        9 The TBS fundingmechanismwillbeto provide an advanceandthenreview expost
           on the basis of expenditure performance from all sources inparticipating provinces in
           the five concerned sub-components, up to an agreedmaximum. TBS funds will be
           disbursed against agreedSRV NTP budget contributionthresholds for that year.

From State Treasury to beneficiaries
StateTreasury will transfer allocations to the Education NTP accounts ineach of the Provincial
Treasuries, in accordance with the instructions received from MoF following approval of the
StateBudget by the National Assembly. ProvincialTreasuries will transfer allocations to the
Education NTP accounts inDistrict Treasuriesin accordance with instructions received from the
relevant DoF, following approval from the Provincial People's Committee. Inaddition,
ProvincialTreasuries will make disbursements inaccordance with normal SRV procedureson
submission of appropriate documentation compliant with guidelines contained inthe Inter-
MinisterialCircular for sub-components managedby DoETs. District Treasuries, following
receipt of allocations across sub-componentsheneficiaryschools from BoF and approval by the
District People's Committee, will make disbursementsinaccordance with normal SRV



                                                60

procedures on submission of appropriate documentation compliant with guidelines contained in
the Inter-Ministerial Circular for sub-components managedby BoETs.

As there is strong cashflow, the StateTreasury exercisesfunds controls by budget authorization
rather than by cash flow limitations. Although a single Treasury account systemi s not yet in
operation, district and provincialbranchesoperate with reasonablecashbalances. Inmost
districts, there i s a single Treasury account. All payments are madeby cheque. Where cash
payments are required, BoET withdraws funds by cheque and i s responsible for advancing and
acquitting funds. There i s a one month acquittal period. Overall the control of funds i s good and
the dangers of significant un-acquittedpayments are limited. This is confirmed by the PAPER.

Ensuringcompliance with Government financial andprocurement regulations is the
responsibility of MoET, as the StateTreasury has no formal supervision function. However,
Treasury does scrutinize documents prior to issuing payments to ensure compliance with relevant
guidance. Treasury has a widespread reputation inthe education andtraining sector for being
meticulous about requiringprecisely correct paperwork before it will issue a payment.

The following chart provides an example of the fundandinformationflows under the TBS-NTP
proposal. It i s for a district in which all schoolshave their own accounts with Treasury. At
district level, the funds flow would be different where schools deal with Treasury through BoET.




                                                   61

Flow of FundsandInformationfor NTPEducation




                                                       committee
                                                     I      I       I

                                                                              -------
                                                        II                           III
                                                       I       I
      I-=
      I        ICt                                     II ,,Bo
          Treasury                                      I                            IIIII

              I                                         iI          I




                       Schoolswl
                      Bank Accounts                           Bank Accounts



         Note.            Donor funds to GoV

                 +-e
                  -b       Authority and Communication
                  -*----   Consultation and Negotiation
                           NTP funds allocation
                           Cash transfer




                                                       62

Externalaudit

The Education NTPs will be auditedfor the life of the TBS program by independent external
auditors acceptable to TBS Partners and in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to TBS
Partners. The project financial statements will be audited annually in accordance with
international auditing standards. The auditors' report together with the financial statements will
be submitted to TBS Partners no later than six months after the close of the financial year. A
management letter addressing internal control weaknesses o f implementation agencies will also
be providedby the auditor together with the audit report on the financial statements. Auditing
fees may be financed from the capacity buildingtechnical assistance fund (Component 2).

Fiduciary role and supervision

There will be a MoET monitoring team, supported by continuous technical assistancefinanced
through Component 2. Supervision will be carried out jointly by TBS partners every six months,
covering the responsible unit inMoET and randomly selected DoETs and BoETs. The second
supervision ineach year will consist of an annual review meeting with TBS Partners to appraise
NTPimplementation,progress inachievement of project objectives, TBS disbursements and
NTPexpenditures to determine fundingreleasesfor the following year. Inaddition, TBS
Partners will meet periodically, as needed, to review progress and monitoring reports,
expenditure reports and audits.

Action plan and related conditions

Action                           Responsible                   Completion Date
1. Introduce accounting sub-     State Treasury inconjunction  Effectiveness
codes and develop Treasury       with MoET
expenditure reports by education
NTP sub-components by
province.
2. Prepare and issue an Inter-   MoET and MoF                  Effectiveness
Ministerial Instruction for the
Education NTP 2006-2010 cycle
to be applied to the six pilot
provinces during the inception
period.

Financialcovenants

The following will be listed inthe dated financial covenants inthe Development Credit
Agreement (DCA):

0   Maintain a Foreign Exchange Account, including sub-accounts to receive monies inthe
    currencies of TBS contributors.
0   MoET,DoETsandBoETs have the staff neededto handle the management, monitoring and
    reporting requirements o f the Education NTP.
0   SubmitFinancial MonitoringReports (FMRs) semi-annually no later than 45 days after the
    end of each semester.


                                                    63

0  Submit annual financial statements and audit reports no later than six months after the end of
   each financial year.
0  Organize mid-year supervisions and annual review meetings with IDA and other TBS
   Partners to appraise NTPimplementation andprogress inachievement of project objectives.

The following will be listed inthe dated financial covenants inthe Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) to be completed prior to the release of the 2006 funds:

   For 2006 release to take place, issue an Inter-Ministerial Circular for the EducationNTP
   2006-2010 cycle and implement a coding structure consistent with its provisions.




                                                64

                                 Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
             VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONALEFAPLANIMPLEMENTATION


General

The proposed project will be implementedduring a three and a half-year period. It i s designed to
support the EducationNational Targeted Program (NTP) which has been effectively in operation
since 2001 and consists of seven sub-components. The project i s supporting five out of the
seven NTP sub-components as described inthe main text of this Project Appraisal Document.

A Specific Investment Credit will be usedfor the proposed project. Donor funds-including
IDA- will be pooled together with Government funds for the EducationNTPandchanneled
through the Government budget system (see details in Annex 7). All donors have agreed to use
Government systems for procurement, disbursement and financial management activities under
the project inorder to support Government ownership, facilitate donor harmonization, strengthen
Government procedures, reduce transaction costs and enhance sector management capacity. In
addition, any impact or change at the system level resulting from the project will serve as a tool
for continuous policy dialogue. Thus procurementfor the proposed project will be carried out in
accordance to Government's procurement decrees, whichever are ineffect duringproject
implementation.

Procurementarrangements

Procurement responsibility
All procurement activities for NTPsub-components will be plannedandcarriedout at the
provincial and district levels (see Annex 6 for detailed implementation arrangements) by
provincial and district committees with the help of relevant evaluation committees.
Representatives from provincial DoETs and district BoETs as well as local schools, if needed,
are represented inthese committees.

Control over procurement i s exercised by multiple agencies, Le., (i)        the Ministry of Education
andTraining (through its Planning andFinance Department) who has the overall implementation
responsibility; (ii)  the Public Procurement Office (PPO) which has overall responsibility for
procurement oversight in Vietnam; and (iii)         the MPIInspectorate."

Eligibleprocurement activities
There are four eligible expenditure categories to be financed under the proposedproject: (i)              civil
works (about 55 percent of project costs); (ii)      goods (about 10percent); (iii)     teaching materials
(about lo%, including textbooks, teacher manuals and studentnotebooks); and (iv)
training/workshops (about 20 percent).


''The MPIInspectorate was created inAugust 2003. One of its key responsibilities is procurement oversight. The
MPIInspectoratereceives technical assistancefrom DFIDthrough abilateral grant supporting efforts to improve the
system o f checks and balances over planning and investment decisions.



                                                       65

The specific activities eligible for financing are included under Component 1of the project and
consist o f
             Renovation of classrooms, latrines and libraries;
             Provision of teaching aids and school equipment;
             Instructional materials and textbooks, inparticular for schools serving disadvantaged
             children (poor, ethnic minorities, children with disabilities); and
         0   Training for teachers and principals

Procurement methods
IDA financed activities (under Component 1of the project) can be categorized from a
procurement perspective as: goods, works and services (including required Government pre-
construction reports) and traininglworkshops. There i s no consultant selection financed by IDA
under the project. Consultant selection i s confined to Component 2 of the project which i s
parallel financed from bilateral sources.

(i) worksandgoodswillbeprocuredcompetitivelyinaccordancetoGovernment
     Civil
procurement rules andprocedures. Procurement packages are estimated at about US$30,000 to
US$120,000 for civil works andUS$500 to US$6,500 for goods.

(ii)  Textbooks and teacher manuals will be procuredby direct contracting regardless of value.
Direct contracting i s usedbecause: Vietnamese textbooks and teacher manuals are only available
from one source, Le., provincial Books and School Equipment Companies. Provincial
Departments of Education and Training sign contracts directly with provincial Books and School
Equipment Companies, who buy their supplies from the Education PublishingHouse (EPH).

The efficiency and effectiveness of textbook printingand distribution systems were thoroughly
reviewed and found acceptable under the on-going PEDCProject, after EPHaccepted to enhance
i t s biddingprocedures for textbook inputs from limitedto open competitive bidding. Therefore,
under the TBS Project, the same principles can be adopted if provision of textbooks to
disadvantaged children i s to be supported.

EPHi s a state-owned enterprise with original seedmoney financed from Government. Itis now
operating under commercial law and i s legally, managerially and financially independent.
Textbook printingsare subsidized by Government with pre-negotiated paper supplies. EPHuses
limitednational competitive biddingprocedures to print textbooks andteacher manuals. It has a
distribution system subsidized by Government to provide textbooks and teacher manuals to
provincial Books and School Equipment Companies. The average selling price of a set of
primaryeducation textbooks (about six subjects) including delivery to schools is about
VND37,600 (US$2.45) with multiple colors and good quality paper. Fieldassessmentsalso
confirmed very reasonable costs for student notebooks, for about VND1, 500 (US$O.lO) per
notebook with good quality paper, about 1cm thick and a multi-color cartoon character cover.
Each student usually gets about 11notebooks per year or 18 notebooks every two years.

(iii) Traininglworkshops will be financed based on Government programs agreed by TBS
Partners inaccordance to Government procedures.




                                                   66

Procurement assessmentof the capacity to conduct procurement by the project
implementation agencies

A procurementassessmentwas conducted by a Procurement Accredited Senior Operations
Officer and was subsequently revisedinJanuary 2005 and again inMarch-May 2005. The
overall risk i s ratedhigh after incorporating: (i)         the risks identifiedby the Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) dated October 200212and the 2005 IFAPER; (ii)                     the risks identified
by the World Bank and four other development banks-ADB,                    Kfw,JBIC & AFD-associated
with the Public Procurement Ordinance preparedby MPIPPO, which is scheduled to be
promulgatedin October 200513and (iii)              the inherent risks related to the highly decentralized
nature of project procurement.

Risks associatedwith theproject design
However, the specific risk associated with the project i s rated as moderate due to the limited
share of project funds considered to be potentially at risk and subject to wastage due to
overpricing as a result of non-competitive procedures. The activity of highest fiduciary risk
under the project relates to civil works. It i s estimated that no less than 50 percent of the total
number of civil works will rely on competitive biddingprocedures. The remaining proportion
may potentially be subject to direct contracting, which includes Force Account14 inVietnamese
procurement rules. This procedure normally applies to remote areas where there is no qualified
contractor or it i s difficult to attract competition among qualified contractors. Under these
conservative assumptions, the share of the Credit at greatest risk under the project would amount
to less than 5 percent o f the total if overpricing due to lack of competition or wastage due to
inferior materialdlabor amount to a 20 percent surcharge. This riski s mitigated by wide
publication of unit costs by Government and will be further reduced b y specific risk mitigation
measures proposedinthis project-such                as promoting good procurement practices at the sector
level and procurement annual audits -as              described below.

The moderate risk rating i s consistent with an independent assessmentby DFIDfor this project.
Therefore, TBS Partners have agreed to rely on Government procurement systems due to the
followingjustifications: (i)      the nature o f procurement activities financed under this project
would not be significantly affectedby identified procedural deficiencies; (ii)             there has been
significant capacity buildingof the implementing agencies carried out at provincial and district
level under previous Bank-financedprojects; (iii)             there are significant opportunities to leverage
improvements inplanning and management of NTP sub-components and Government systems,
including procurement and financial management; and (iv) an action plan was agreed with
Government to mitigate residual risks (see section below). A detailed analysis of risks and
mitigation measures associated with the project i s provided below.




l2Assessmentonallrelevant Governmentdecreesandcirculars, Le., Decrees         52,66 and 88, and Circulars 1and 14.
l3is
  It recognized that the Procurement Ordinance i s a much improvedlegal instrument encouragingopen
competition; nevertheless, there are still several issues deemed unacceptable by the abovementioned five
development banks.
l4Inremoteareas when there are no contractors available, Government personnel may be mobilizedto handlecivil
works.


                                                           67

Risks associated with Governmentprocurement procedures andpotential impact
As identified inthe 2002 CPAR and 2005 IFAPER,over the last decade Government has made
goodprogress indeveloping a legal and institutionalframework for public procurement.
However, risks still remain and overall the risk associated with present procurement practices i s
ratedhigh.

The current public procurement legislationi s made of a number of decrees, circulars and
guidelines. This i s a fragmented and not always consistent legal framework, not conducive to a
fully efficient and transparent procurement system. It i s expected that the adoption of the
Procurement Ordinance will be a step forward inthe improvement of the procurement system
anda signthat the Government is serious andcommittedto continue its efforts to modernize
public procurement. The upcoming accession to the World Trade Organization i s an enabling
factor. Thus, the legislative agenda has been recently amended by the Standing Committee of
the National Assembly to accelerate promulgation of important laws in addition to the
aforementioned Procurement Ordinance, including Commercial Law, Law on Anti-Corruption,
Code on Enforcement of Judgments andTax Laws.

Another risk identified i s the fact that some of the procedures under open competitive bidding
are not inline with what the Bank considers best procurement practice as described below.
However, and as mentioned above, it i s expected that most of the risks associated with these
procedures will not critically impact on the project, given the nature of procurement, while for
the remaining risks, mitigation measures will be set inplace.

(a) Thresholds for the use of procurement methods
The thresholds for the use of Direct Contracting, LimitedBiddingand Shopping methods are
unreasonably high, as a result of which open competition can be by-passed. The existing
threshold inDecree 66 for Direct Contracting i s around US$60,000, for Shopping i s around
US$120,000 andfor LimitedBiddingis aroundUS$180,000. Although MoET confirms that
Direct Contracting procedures, which includes Force Account, for school construction i s only
used inremote areas where there i s no or a few qualified contractors available, to mitigate the
above-mentioned riskprovinces and districts will receive guidance on procurement best practices
through MoET annual management meetings andprocurement workshops financedby
Component 2 so that procurement for goods and works yield better quality and more
economically through competitive procedures. Direct Contracting will apply to textbooks and
teacher manuals procurement, where Provincial Departments of Education and Training
purchase directly from provincial Books and School Equipment Companies (as noted above).

/b) Mandatory association
Foreign bidders are required to form mandatoryjoint ventures with local firms if they want to
participateinbiddings. This is not expected to negatively impact on this project since contracts
subject to bidding are not of the size to likely attract international competition.

(c) Pre-registration
The requirement for bidders to be pre-registered in a national information database inorder to be
eligible for biddingon a particular package being tendered i s not acceptable. Inpractice, this i s




                                                   68

not being implemented due to the absence of a complete registration system andMPIhas
indicatedits intention to remove this requirement.

(d) Eligibilityof SOEs
State-ownedenterprises in Vietnam can be allowed to bidfor Bank-financedprocurement only if
they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a
dependent agency of the ProcuringEntityMnistry. This risk i s not deemed critical since SOEs
which are potential bidders under the project are construction companies affiliated with the
Ministry of Works. Such SOEs are legally and financially autonomous and they are not
dependent agencies o f the Ministry of Education and Training. As to the performance of these
SOEs, drawing from the experience of the first IDA-financed PrimaryEducationProject
completed in2002, the quality of school construction was superior to that of private companies.
Implementation capacity of provincial private companies may have experienced some
improvement since 2002. This risk will be further minimized once the draft Procurement
Ordinance becomes effective. The Ordinance stipulates that companies must be financially
independent and have no economic interests with related institutions and individuals,

le) Price ceilings
The current legislation requires that bidprices be within the estimated cost of the bidpackage,
which i s based on Government unit costs guidelines published and accessible to the public.
While prudence inawarding contracts at reasonable prices is critical, particularly for a country
with limitedresources such as Vietnam, some flexibility, with necessary checks and special
approvals, should be allowed incertain circumstances. More flexibility was introduced in
Decree 66 (Le., requiring clarifications from the lowest evaluated bidder when the bidi s above
the cost estimate).

If) preference
    Local
Some procurement advertisements for national competitive biddingsor invitation of bids under
national shopping procedures usually do not include other suppliers or contractors outside of the
province or district. For small biddingcontracts, it i s unavoidable that local preference will be a
standard practice for convenience reasons. Provincial companies are able to provide healthy
competitive prices. It i s also unlikely that other provincial companies will be interested due to
small contract values. Inaddition, under the Procurement of Small Contracts method inDecree
88, the law stipulates that when the number of local potential bidders i s less than three, bidders
from outside the province should be invited.

(E) Complaint handling mechanism
There i s presently no defined mechanismin Vietnam to allow bidders an opportunity to convey
grievances duringprocurement and contract implementation, which i s requiredunder the Asian
Development Bank and World BankNCB procedures. The Socialist Republic of Vietnam has
provided a commitment that it will develop and put into place a national complaint handling
mechanism.

(h) Negotiations
No negotiations should be allowed with any bidder on the price or substance of the bid. This
was an issue identified duringproject preparation field visits since public bidopening i s not a



                                                  69

norm. This practice i s progressively being phased out with increasing awareness about good
practices inpublic procurement-especially under the PEDC Project which covers 40
 province^'^ following World Bank procurement procedures-and growing confidence among
suppliers.

Risks associated with the capacity of the implementing agencies to conduct procurement
Inaddition to assessingprocurement capacity inMoET, which was found to be adequate, field
visits were paid to several provincial DoETs and district BoETs along with relevant Provincial
Treasuries, District Treasuries, communes and schools, which have been beneficiaries of the
Education NTP, for the purpose of assessingprocurement and financial management systems at
the provincial and district levels.16

This assessment also takes into consideration past Bank-financed operations interms of planning
procurement arrangements, executing procurement activities, complying with procurement
guidelines and handling contract management. There i s no history of misprocurement declared
by the Bank inthe education sector unlike other sectors. Nevertheless, collusion amongbidders
probably could be found in all sectors. There i s a total of four Bank-financed educationprojects
inVietnam with one completed -the PrimaryEducationProject, andthree projectsunder
implementation-the      Higher Education Project, the PrimaryTeacher Development Project and
the PrimaryEducation for DisadvantagedChildren Project. Some of the positive outcomes
documented inthe Implementation Completion Report under the Primary Education Project
include: (i) capacity was built at all governance levels interms of planning and executing project
activities; (ii)
               the school construction process was greatly simplifiedand streamlined; (iii)    better
quality and substantial budget savings for procurement of goods, textbooks andworks have been
achieved through competitive procedures; and (iv) supply and distribution of textbook systems
were improved and strengthened, reachingmore schools and poor communities. The
implementation agencies at the provincial and district levels of the above-mentioned Bank-
financed four projects will be involved inTBS, especially for civil works and textbooks
procurement.

A field review inBac Giang andVinhPhuc provinces revealed that procurement methods are
usually determined by implementation agency (Le., province, district or commune), by
expenditure category and by financial threshold through various decrees, circulars, and
instructions, which explain why some of the thresholds are slightly lower than those for other
sectors:

Civil works:
>VNDl.O billion (US$64,000) -limitednationalcompetitive bidding
dND1.0 billion and>VND5.0 million (US$320)-three price quotations
eVND5.0 million- direct contracting

Goods (including school furniture and consumables):
>VNDlOOmillion (US$6,410) -limitednational competitive bidding
cVND100million and>VNDS.Omillion-three price quotations


l5Out of 55 provinces covered by the Education NTP.
l6Thesejoint assessmentfield trips includedTBS Partners andfinancial management consultants.



                                                     70

<VND5.0 million - direct contracting with price negotiations

Textbooks and teacher manuals:
Direct contracting regardless of value -Vietnamese textbooks and teacher manuals are only
available from one source, Le., provincial Books and School Equipment Companies (see detailed
explanation and analysis above).

Riskmitigationactionplan

Inorder to mitigate the risks identifiedby this CapacityAssessment exercise, the following ex
ante and expost risk mitigation measures are included under the project:

Ex ante risk mitigation measures
Government decrees and ordinances provide a wide range of options for procurement methods,
meant to provide flexibility to meet the very wide range of conditions inVietnam. However,
some options within the decrees more clearly conform with the ideal of open and free
competition. A guidance on "Procurement Best Practices" will be issued by October 31,2005 to
be provided to all implementation entities and responsible parties o f the Education NTP. The
Procurement Best Practices guidance will include the following points:

       Competition promotes lower costs and better quality goods, works and services.
       Procurement for goods and works are expected to follow competitive procedures under
        Government decrees, such as the "Procurement of Small Contracts" procedures under
       Decree 88. Direct contracting could be usedifjustified after taking account principles of
       economy and efficiency.
       Direct contracting may only be allowed for procuring textbooks and teacher guides from
        Provincial Books andEquipment Companies, unless exceptional circumstances are
       justified and with the approval of a competent authority. Exceptional circumstances
        could include emergency situations, only one possible supplier, standardization andor
        technical compatibility with existing equipment.
        Negotiations on prices and purchase terms may not be allowed unless justified under
        exceptional circumstances, such as unforeseen soil or site condition of school
        construction, unforeseen difficulties to adapt the design of latrines inremote areas,
        unforeseen reduction of scope, etc.
        Contracting with MoET dependent SOEs may not be allowed, except with Provincial
        Books andEquipment Companies for the procurement of textbooks and teacher guides.
        The "Pass/Fail" system i s ideally the default technical evaluation method. The "Merit-
        Point" system may not be allowed unless exceptional circumstances justify it and with
        approval of a competent authority.

Ex post risk mitigation measures (to be financed by parallel funds under Component 2)
        Annual independent performance reviews and procurement audits, focusing on assessing
        compliance with Government procurement systems, misuse of funds and signs of
        influence by the Guidance of Procurement Best Practices, as referencedabove, will be
        conducted, monitoring and analyzing trends related to project outcomes and efficiency,
        e.g., school construction costs and quality, textbook distribution to schools, competitive


                                                 71

processes, etc. The first audit shall be conducted on the Bank's initial contribution of 5
percent of the total Credit amount, Le., US$2.5 million from project Effectiveness
through December 2005 (Year 0) in six pilot provinces. Any shortcomings identified by
the performance reviews andprocurement audits will be raised and discussed with MPI
and MoET, and corrections shouldbe made. Subsequent annual audits shall include
assessments of improvements inprocurement practices over time usingthe baseline set
by the first audit. Termsof Reference have been drafted and agreed upon duringproject
Negotiations. Submission of annual performancereviews andprocurement audits will
take place no later than June 30 of each year, while TBS Partners reserve the option of
conducting post reviews inconsultation with SRV.

Procurement monitoring andperformance evaluation indicators-            A baseline for
performance indicators will be set through the first procurement audit, including the share
contracts awardedby various procurement methods, number of schools and textbooks
provided under the EducationNTP, cost per classroom of school modernization, the share
of children without textbooks, etc. Disbursements will take place on an annual basis
duringthe thirdquarter of the fiscal year. Annual independent performance reviews and
procurement audits will be conducted to monitor the impact of the proposedproject as
discussed above.

 Procurement MonitoringIndicator                FY05           FY06        FY07       FY08
                                              (baseline)




modifiedor key inputs which were notpricedinthe biddingprocess are added.




                                           72

  0   Training and awareness-raising workshops about procurement best practices will be
      provided through capacity buildingactivities, based on the lessons learnedfrom
      independent audits, starting duringthe inception period (Year 0).

Bank supervision
  0   Post reviews of a representative sample of transactions under the five NTP sub-
      components will be carried out semi-annually, as described in Annex 7,focusing also on
      procurement practices and signs of misuse of funds. Approximately 10percent of the
      total number of BoETs will be randomly selected for review during project
      implementation.

  0   This project will serve as a transition from traditional investmentprojectsto budgetary
      support. All procurement activities for the NTP will be planned and carried out at the
      provincial, district and commune levels. There i s substantial heterogeneity across
      provinces and districts regarding the implementation of NTP-funded activities. Hence, it
      i s unfeasible to plan ahead of time and submit an ex ante procurement plan for Bank prior
      approval, therefore no annual procurement plans will beprepared. However, an
      assessment of the capacity of planning was made andfound acceptable and, in addition,
      information about what i s procured and how will be closely followed through
      performance reviews, monitoring activities andprocurement performance indicators.

  0   Misprocurement will be determined as a failure by the implementation agencies to follow
      applicable procurement procedures as defined in applicable Vietnamese legislation or
      misuse of funds. Remedies for misprocurement will be mutually agreed upon by TBS
      Partners and Government. Should misprocurement-based           on the latest Government
      decrees, circulars, ordinances or misuse of funds-be     identified duringproject
      implementation as defined in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the Bank will
      require the Government to return the amount of the misprocured contract to the dedicated
      Account inthe subsequent year or whatever remedial actions deemed appropriate. All
      donors will receive post review reports and any further review or investigation results
      will be shared among participating TBS Partners.




                                                73

                         Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
          VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONAL EFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION

Economic analysis

Background. Table 1below summarizes data on recent trends inprimary education inVietnam.
The most salient recent developments include:

     The relatively rapid decline intotal enrolment since the 1997-98 school year, caused by
     demographic trends towards smaller family sizes;
     The relatively rapid increase in total numbers of teachers (both established and contract)
     over the same period;
     As a result of (a) and (b), a very rapid decrease (of almost one quarter injust six years) in
     the pupil-teacher ratio (PTR);
     Nevertheless, no evidence of increasing net enrolment ratios, despite some narrowing of
     NERdifferentials by householdexpenditure quintile;
     Continuing gross enrolment ratios of over 100percent, indicating substantial internal
     inefficiency (repetition, early and late enrolment), despite improved completion rates;
     Continuing evidence o f very wide regional and provincial dispersion of both inputs (e.g.,
     PTRs,where the highestllowest ratio by region increased from 2002to 2004) and
     outcomes (failure rates, dropout rates, grade 5 student achievement).




                                               74

Primary, Regional ranges
Failure rate (repetition) %, 2003-4                                                                         0.17 -4.3
Dropout rate %, Primary, Regional range                                                                    0.52 - 6.68
Mathematics Grade 5 Achievement; range of Provincial               16-- 13                                    65 -95
mean scores*
Reading Grade 5 Achievement; range of Provincial mean              20-- 19                                    39 - 14
scores*




MoET's expenditure as a share of the total State budget has steadily increased over the past few
years and has almost returned to its 1998 level (above 17 percent). The overall education budget
has grown substantially as a share of GDP to 4.6 percent. On the other hand, due to the relative
fall in the share o f primary education as well as the increase inthe number of primary teachers
andtheir salaries, the share of total State budget going to operational expenditures at the primary
level has only slowly approached MoET's "target" of 20 percent. Inaddition, "operational
expenditures" at provincial and district levels often include many activities which, while
supportive o f education, do not necessarily translate directly into classroom-level inputs.l7

This situation is further compounded byprovincial disparities inState budget allocations per
pupil andinPTRs. Personal emolument expenditures are given absolute priority within the State
budget, frequently leaving non-personnel expenditures at the school level as low as 5-6 percent
of the total or less. The 2004 PAPER goes so far as to describe non-personnel expenditures as
"negligible." Thus, in many districts it i s still common to find that schools require "voluntary"
contributions from parents to pay for such fundamental inputs as electricity, water and cleaning
materials. Dispersion of non-personnel inputs per primarypupil, especially when account i s
taken of those provided not from the State budget but from other sources, i s quite large across
districts within provinces and across schools within districts.

Insuch circumstances, it is perhaps not surprising that many schools fall below the FSQL
minimumlevels adopted by SRV in2003. FSQL represents the minimumpackage of inputs
capable o f producing educational services of acceptable quality under Vietnamese conditions.
Bringingschools up to this level, particularly inthose localities that are most disadvantaged, will
generate: (a) efficiency benefits through improved quality; and (b) equity benefits through
reduction inthe disparities ininputs and outcomes due to the location and characteristics of
schools. A 2004 District Audit provides evidence o f the gulf betweenFSQL standards and
existing school conditions.




"Examplesmightincluderecognitionofexcellentpupils,meetingsforschooldirectorsoraccountantsfor
administrative purposes, district and province competitions and ceremonies, district and province level allocations
for renovation or repair, and the like.


                                                         75

  FSQLGap                                                                                          No. of School
                                                                                                       Sites
                                                                                                    Nationwide
  Classrooms(all sites) not ingood condition                                                                75,843
  Sites without water for drinking                                                                          31,604
  Sites without toilets                                                                                     26,752
  Classrooms(all sites) without good blackboard                                                            140,799
  Sites without any standardstudent chairstdesks                                                            27,181
  Grades without teaching aids for reading                                                                  41,659
  Grades without teaching aids for maths                                                                    41,200
  Grades without supplementary reading materials                                                            92,559
  Teachers without classroomsupplieststationery                                                             54,653   '
  Teachers without full set of student textbooks                                                            10,874
  Teachers without full set of teacher guides                                                               21.523
  Total Students. with no Vietnamese& Mathematicsbooks                                           I         186.487  1
~ Total Students with no notebook1pens                                                                      97,174

  Teachers (all sites) under 9+3 qualified                                                                  17,517
  Teachers (all sites) under 12+2 qualified                                                                100,763
  Teachers (all sites) receiving less than 5 days in-service training inlast academic year                 128,615
  PrincipaWice Principalunder 12+2 qualified                                                                 5,840

Education has pilotedthe introductionof a MediumTermExpenditure Framework (MTEF)
 approachto budgeting inthe public sector inVietnam (under Component 2 of the IDA co-
 financed Public Financial Management Project). The analyses conducted within the MTEF
 exercise provide a usefulprojection of the likely budgetary situation for the sector inthe medium
 term. On the assumption that economic growth continues at roughly the average rate of the last
 five years and that MoET's share of the overall Statebudget follows the trajectory depicted in
 announcedSRV policy, the MTEFexercise provides abasis for projecting the budgetary
 envelope for MoET institutions and likely evolutionwithin                 it.18 This exercise suggests, after
 taking account of real salary increases and enrolment changes, that a substantial increaseinnon-
 personnel expenditure per pupili s possible inthe mediumterm -perhaps another doubling
 within five years. Thus, it i s expected that SRV will have the budgetary capacity to reach and
 maintain FSQLthroughout the country inthe mediumterm, providedthe backlogof major
 construction has been clearedthrough other means.

However, inthe short term, this i s neither likely nor politically feasible since enrolment increases
 are continuing inthe post-primary sub-sectors within education, some of which have quality
problems at least as great as those inprimary education. Accordingly, this proposal i s to provide
targeted budget support to accelerate the achievement of FSQL inVietnam's schools, with
priority given to schools located inthe more disadvantagedlocalities.


 '*The  MTEF covers the entire education and training sector. However, there are institutions, particularly vocational
 and technical and higher education institutions that fall under MoLISA, other line ministries andprovincial
 governments. They are, therefore, not funded through the Education and Training sector budget. Public primary
 schools are all under the MoET budget, and the MoET budget is, therefore, the appropriatereferencepoint.


                                                            76

Costs and benefits. This project will provide targeted budget support for the implementation of
the National Education for All Action Plan. The National EFA Action Plan encompasses the
development o f four essential components of the education system during 2003-2015: early
childhood care and pre-school education (EFA Target Group l),         primary education (EFA Target
Group 2), lower secondary education (EFA Target Group 3) and non-formal education (EFA
Target Group 4). The EFA Action Plan spans the critical period to 2015, duringwhich primary
andlower secondary education will undergo a substantial transformation of structure, content
and performance on account of factors such as: demographic change; the reform of state
management throughdecentralization; the effective attainment of full universal primary and
lower secondary education and the coalescence of these two sub-sectors into one coherent 9-year
basic education cycle; and the growing needto reach international levels of quality and
performance o f education.

The main project objective i s to accelerate the achievement of FSQL standards in schools,
thereby improving the input mix in educational establishments and, as a result, educational
outcomes. Some resources will also be devoted to increasing the enrolment of children currently
not in school, notably ethnic minorities and special needs children.

In2001, a large scale studyof readingcomprehension andmathematics achievement was
undertaken in 3,639 schools, which tested both pupils and teachers in grade 5." The results of
this study provide the empirical basis for the expectation that reachingFSQL will improve
student achievement and educational outcomes. Controlling for home background and school
location, student achievement was significantly and independently correlated with teacher
capacity and training and school resources (notably furniture andbooks).

Inparticular, pupilstaught by teachers who were moreknowledgeable or skillful on their subject
matter were likely to achieve better than pupils taught by teachers with lower subject-matter
scores. Likewise, pupils inclasses with sufficient teaching and learning resources were likely to
achieve better when compared to pupils inclasses with few or hardly any teaching and learning
resources. All else equal, pupils attending full-day schools were likely to achieve better than
pupilsinschools without full-day schooling. Andwhere parents were involved inschool
development oriented activities, pupils were likely to achieve better than pupils in schools where
parents were not involved in such activities.

For illustrative purposes, the following figure models the impact of different variables on pupil's
mathematics achievement (including final fixed effects coefficients and standard errors at the 95
percent significance level).




l 9 Reading and Mathematics Assessment Study,Volume 2, World Bank, 2004


                                                    77

                   Three-level hierarchical modelfor mathematicsachievement

 School
 (Level-1)




Improving the input mix to bringschools up to FSQLcan be anticipated to generate the
following benefits:

     (a) Improved learning outcomes
     (b) Reducedrepetition anddropout
     (c) Increased completion rates and transition rates to lower secondary
     (d) Improvedacademic performanceinlower secondary for those who continue, which leads
          to internal efficiency improvement at this level as well
     (e) Higher earnings for those who enter the labor force with no more education than primary
          school
     (f) Equityimprovementsinterms of reduceddisparitieson ahouseholdexpenditurebasis
          and a locality basis.

Inbrief, by accelerating the achievement of FSQL,with priority given to schools inthe more
disadvantaged localities, we anticipate benefits interms o f internal and external efficiency, more
rapid achievement of SRV universal primary education goals and improved equity on a
householdincome and geographic basis.




                                                 78

Fiscalanalysis

Trendsineducationspending. The table below shows trends inpublic sector financing for
primary education and, inparticular, public expenditure per pupil on "operational expenditures"
at all levels. Since 1998, there has been a doubling inreal terms. Nonetheless, "operational
expenditures" inprimary education remain at a relatively low level, at about US$10 per annum.
Furthermore, this figure represents total expenditures at all governance levels attributed to the
primary sector, which means that the amount actually reachingclassrooms is notably smaller.
Reports from individual schools, especially less advantaged schools, suggest that often only one
third, or even less, of reportednon-salary expenditures inthe recurrent budget actually reach
them. This implies an annual per pupil amount inthe order ofjust three to four U S dollars.




 Primary sector PE, %
 Implied Operational expenditures per      1994                    46       51           85
 pupil/year, 000 VND
 Same, current 000 VND                    Current                  68       82         164
 Same, current U S $                                              5.25    5.80        10.30




From a financial point of view, the focus o f the program implies that it i s appropriately regarded
as a budgetary "bridging exercise'' that has no negative sustainability implications. The MTEF
projections for education strongly suggest that the combination of growing budgetary resources
available for education and declining total enrolments inprimary education will, within a few
years, permit the allocation o f greater resources to non-personnel inputs inthe primary sector.
This appears to be fiscally sustainable even as SRV continues to tackle the complex issues
surrounding teacher deployment and remuneration. As noted above, pupilteacher ratios are
presentlyunsustainably low inVietnam. While the student population is expected to fall, the
number of teaching staff has steadily increased. Likewise, while the proportion of the primary
school budget spent on teachers' salaries i s in the order o f 95 percent, teacher salaries are
insufficient to be considered a living wage.

The Government of Vietnam has begun to implement a gradual increase o f teacher salaries.
According to the National EFA Action Plan, teacher salaries are expected to grow from US$47
per month on average to US$192 in2015. These estimates are derived from civil service pay
comparator assessments with private sector equivalents requiring similar type of qualifications
conducted by the Ministry o f Finance. The Fast Track Initiative indicative framework


2oClosest academic year, Le., 1997-1998for 1998 fiscal year, etc.


                                                       79

recommends that teacher salaries not exceed 3.5 times the GDPper capita. Presently, teacher
salaries inVietnam represent 1.7times the GDPper capita. Even if they grow to US$192 per
monthin2015, they will only represent 2.4 times of the GDPper capita.

                                    Education Sector MTEFSummary, 2003-2008"
                                                2003         2004    2005    2006    2007     2008
 ExpenditureinTrillionDong
 GDP                                            605.331      694.918 775.279 867.444 970.565 1043.358
 State Budget                                   158.924      187.670 217.078 242.884 271.758 286.9234


 Education% of State Budget                      16.35%      17.13%  17.20%  17.50%  18.00%   18.00%
 EducationBudget                                  25.980     32.146   37.337  42.505  48.916  51.646


 Recurrent                                        21.550     23.083   22.535  25.627  25.471  27.181
 Salary Contingency*                                          2.848
 MainInvestment                                    3.460      4.900   5.216   6.492   7.789    8.031
 NationalTargetedProgram(Recurrent)                0.970       1.315  2.500    1.677   1.677    1.693
"Excludes proposed contributions from TBS support program
*To cover a 25% salary increaseto improveteaching staff wages
Source: Medium TermExpenditure Framework, Draft, December 2004.


Inthe short term, represented by the plannedduration of this program (inception periodin2005,
full-scale implementation 2006 - 2008), central allocations available are insufficient to ensure
that all schools reach FSQL. However, the nature of FSQL i s such that the expenditures needed
to bring schools up to this level are mostly of a one-off nature with little or no annual recurrent
implications (school rehabilitation, furniture and equipment, teacher upgrading, inclusion for
disadvantaged groups, Vietnamese as second language and multigrade teacher training, teaching
and learning materials and facilitation of community support to schools). The only clear
exception i s in-service teacher training which requires annual refresher and enrichment training.
The majority o f the annual recurrent expenditure i s expected to decline after the end of the
program, when SRV recurrent budgets ought to suffice to maintain FSQL.

The proposed TBS project has been designed as a mechanism for achieving FSQL standards in
schools more quickly than it would otherwise be possible. The implications for annual recurrent
expenditure requirements for their maintenance, according to the MTEFprojections, should be
wholly affordable.




                                                                80

                                 Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
            VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONAL EFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION

There are no major safeguardissues associatedwith the project andno land acquisition or
resettlement (OP4.12) concerns expectedsince the majority of civil works rehabilitation will be
conducted on existing school sites. The project i s rated as a Category C project.

EnvironmentalAssessment (OP4.01)
There will be no new school construction with the focus largely on rehabilitation work (Category
C). Therefore no Environmental Assessment (EA) nor an EA framework will berequired in
preparation of the project. The Ministry of Construction has establishedguidelines for
construction bidspecifications to cover eventualities regarding construction dust and noise
control, waste management, site management, sanitation facilities and asbestos containing
material demolition management. These guidelines are contained inthe Vietnam Standards for
Construction TCVN-4319-86 (Standardsfor Public Works andHouses) andTCVN-3978-84
(Standards for School Construction). MoET must abide by these guidelines.

Social Assessment
Project preparation was conducted with a high degree of social participation. Several
consultation workshops were heldwith provincial officials, district staff, school personnel and
community groups throughout the country. A beneficiary assessment about local perceptions on
constraints to education demand andpotential remedies was conducted by an international
consultant duringthe preparation of the PEDC project. Giventhe similarities between the two
projects no additional assessment was undertaken.

Indigenous Peoples(IP) (OD 4.20) [being converted to OP4.101
Project activities will be focused on disadvantaged areas where ethnic minority people reside.
The project i s expectedto enhance the livelihoodsof indigenous people by improving the access
to and quality of primary education. Many ethnic minority children drop out of school early
becausethe languageof instruction acts as a barrier. This project will support teacher training,
vernacular languageinstruction and the provision of teachingleamingmaterials for Vietnamese
language strengthening.

The project utilizes the same basic framework of the IPpolicy framework (IPPF) from the
PrimaryEducation for Disadvantaged Children Project. The Safeguardsteam has reviewed and
found the IPPFof the PEDC Project to be fundamentally sound as abasis for this project. The
project has reviewed how appropriate current policy i s with respect to ensuring equity for ethnic
minorities interms of educational outcomes and the experienceson the ground of various
approaches and strategies implemented to date (see Annex 14).

Gender Issues
There are no aggregate differences inaccess andeducational outcomesinprimaryschools
between boys and girls. While children indisadvantageddistricts perform at levels below the
national average, there i s little difference between boys' and girls' academic performance in
either the most advantagedor disadvantaged districts (including ethnic minorities). However,
the more remote, mountainous andpoorer areas possess notably lower enrolment rates,


                                                  81

especially for girls. Schooling i s difficult for children from poor families; but girls experience
notably fewer opportunities than boys. The rate of boys from poor families who have never gone
to school i s approximately 11percent, while the rate i s 16percent among girls.

Girls oftentimes face greater competing demands from housework or social duties, including
early marriage, than boys. Resource-strappedfamilies may express apreferenceto educate boys,
as girls willjoin their husband's family after marriage andboys will provide for their parents in
their old age. Boys' enhancedeconomic productivity i s more likely to benefitthe family.
Increasing fees or parental perceptions that a low but sufficient level of education has been
reachedby their daughtersmay also act as a disincentive to remain in school as a girl reaches the
upper primary grades.

The project will specifically address factors that constrain girls' educational participation and
support interventions that will benefit them, more specifically:

    0   Reducing direct costs of schooling through the elimination of voluntary fee/contributions
        and the provision of textbooks and school supplies for poor children, and
    0   Providing aclean and safe (`girl-friendly') physical environment through the replacement
        of unsoundor temporary classrooms, construction of latrines and provision of water
        points (i.e., storagecontainers) at these sites.

The project will include the collection of gender-disaggregateddata andencourage the
incorporation of gender equality considerations into development plans. Raising gender
awareness and gender related analytical skills among policy makers and educatorsto address
specific needs and interests of girls will be promoted to the extent possible. Finally, local
government, mass organizations andparent associations can also play an important role to
mobilize and raise awarenessamong parents to keep girls inschool through at leastjunior
secondarylevel (see Annex 13).

CulturalProperty
Dueto the fact that the bulkof civil works will take the form of school rehabilitation, it is
unlikely that the project will adversely affect locations that have archeological, paleontological,
historical, religious or uniquenatural values.




                                                   a2

                        Annex 11:FundamentalSchoolQualityLevels
           VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONALEFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION

The box below includes the key elements of the "Regulation on the Fundamental Quality Levels
of Primary Schools IncludingTheir Satellite Campuses and Classes," issued inaccordance with
Decision No. 48/2003/QD-BGD&DT by the Minister of Education and Training and dated
October 24,2003.


        0  Principals and deputy principals should have (Article 4):
               o   Qualifications of at least "12+2" (12 years of general education plus two
                   years of teacher training
               o Training inschool management, including training insatellite campus
                   management and school managementindisadvantaged areas
        0   Teachers shouldhave (Article 5):
               o Qualifications of at least 12+2: 100percent meetingthis standardby 2005
                         ..
               o Regular in-service training, including training in:
                         .   Teaching children with disabilities
                             Teaching multi-grade classes
                             Vietnamese for ethnic minority children
               o Observation of classroomteaching at least twice per subject per semester
        0   Physical infrastructure (Article 6):
               o No three-shift schools
               o Satellite campuses to be gradually phasedout: any "school" with three or
                   more satellite campusesand at least 150students to be split into two
               o Class size not to exceedthe regulation size (35) by more than 10percent,
                         ...
                   i.e., no classes bigger than 38
               o Every school campusto have, at least:
                             one staff room
                             one library
                         ... one school manager's room
                             one special education room
                             separate latrines for teachers and students and for boys and girls
                             a clean water source
                             adequateplaygrounds for the number of students
               o Classrooms of solid construction (replacement of Grade I V and temporary
                   classrooms)
                         ....
        0   Equipment and materials (Article 6):
               o Classrooms should have:
                             a blackboard
                             teacher's desk and chair
                             desks and chairs for students
                             a storage box for instructional materials
                         ..
               o Every teacher shouldhave:
                             a set of standard supplies (ruler, scissors, paper, pen)
                             a full set of textbooks and teaching manuals
                         .
               o Every student shouldhave:
                             textbooks inmathematics andVietnamese
                             a minimumsupply of notebooks and pencils
               o Every minority student shouldhave: Vietnamese language-strengthening
                   materials

                                                    83

Annex 12: VietnamCommuneMapbyEducationalAchievement Groups
VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONALEFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION




                         84

                                  Annex 13: Mainstreaming Gender
            VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONAL EFA PLAN IMPLEMENTATION


An educational census conducted in 1999revealedthat more than 47 percent of grade 5 students
were female. This overall reassuringpicture about gender parity levels was reinforced by the
population census of 1999 which showedthat 89.5 percent of females aged 6 - 10 were in
primary school as compared to 90.1 percent of boys. Inother words, there are no aggregate
differencesinenrolment rates between boys and girls. Yet, despite highoverall education
enrolments andrelatively small differences betweenmale and female student participation rates,
variations do exist.

The more remote, mountainous and poorer areas possess notably lower enrolment rates,
especially for girls. Schooling i s difficult for children from poor families; but girls experience
significantly fewer opportunities than boys. The rate of boys from poor families who havenever
gone to school i s approximately 11percent, while the rate i s 16percent among girls. This gap in
participation rates between males and females grows even larger at the lower-secondary level,
where 20 percent of poor boys and 32 percent of poor girls have never attendedjunior secondary
school. This i s true even in areas where 100percent of boys from poor families attend school,
such as the RedRiver Delta, where 2.4 percent of girls have never gone to school. These
statistics partially reflect that girls often encounter more obstaclesthan boys to attend school.
Therefore, they drop out earlier than boys. Girls make up about 70 percent of primary school
dropouts.

Children inremote and rural areas frequently musttravel long and arduous distances (more than
one hour) to school, along dangerous pathways. Parents,concerned for their safety, often enroll
theminschool late when they are stronger andbetter able to cope. Parents are even more
reluctant for their daughtersto undertake this walk and delay their age of entry into primary
school even further.

Girlsoftentimes face greater competing demands from housework or social duties, including
early marriage, than boys. Resource-strappedfamilies may express a preference to educate boys,
as girls willjoin their husband's family after marriage andboys will provide for their parentsin
their old age. Boys enhancedeconomic productivity is more likely to benefitthe family.
Increasingfees or parental perceptions that alow but sufficient level of education has been
reachedby their daughtersmay also act as a disincentive to remain in school as a girl reachesthe
upperprimary grades.

Many ethnic minority children drop out early on in their education because language of
instruction acts as a barrier. A study on education inhighland areas highlightsthat the rate of
girls who have never attendedprimary school canreach 60 percent. This gender difference is
widespread amongethnic minority groups inremote areas. Khmer and Hmong girls are two
salient vulnerable groups.

The opportunity cost of education for childrenfrom poor householdsi s high. Primary students
from the poorest quintile work twice as many hours than children from the richest quintile. Girls


                                                  85

work 20-50 percent longer than boys across all income quintiles. Competing labor demands
often contribute to early abandonment.

Nevertheless, a grade 5 student achievement study indicates that while children in disadvantaged
districts perform at levels below the national average, there i s little difference between boys' and
girls' academic performance ineither the most advantaged or disadvantaged districts (including
ethnic minorities). Incombination with student flow data, this suggests that access and
persistence (i.e., fewer years of schooling) are greater problems for girls than boys inthe poorest
and ethnic minority groups. Once in school, on a grade-by-grade basis, girls appear to achieve at
the same level as boys.

Inaddition to student-related concerns, gender biases persist inanumber of alternative social
arenas. A study of primary andjunior secondary school textbooks shows that stereotypical
gender roles are still reflected andreinforced. These images can have a strong influence on
students' understanding, self-perceptions, attitudes andbehaviors. Gender stereotypes can also
affect teachers' methods of instruction.

Low salaries, isolation and poor living conditions are typical for teachers in remote or ethnic
minority areas. A large number of teachers must get involved inother economic activities to
supplement their income, limiting teachers' availability and timetable. These factors negatively
affect the likelihood of female teachers accepting hardship posts.

Finally, the plight andneeds of female teachers and students has been neglected partially due to
low participation rates of females ineducational management. About only one quarter of
primary and lower secondary school principals are women, while 77.4 percent of primary and
68.6 percent o fjunior secondary teachers are female.

Gender mainstreaming and the proposedTargeted Budget Support (TBS) operation

The EducationNTPwill strive to address factors that constrain girls' educational participation
and support interventions that will benefit them. Measures to expand access to universal basic
education will take fully into account the barriers faced by girls and help identify appropriate
means to overcome the gender gap ineducation, especially inpoor and ethnic minority areas.
These include:

First,factors that negatively affect educational participation are the same for boys and girls.
Boys and girls both suffer from inadequate school environment, poor quality instruction, lack of
materials, language barriers andhighdirect and opportunity costs.

Second, many program interventions address constraints that generally tend to affect girls
disproportionately, exerting a stronger negative influence on their chances o f enrolling,
remaining and succeeding in school. Consequently, the overall FSQL strategy addresses these
issues-such    as costs, correct age of school entry, and access to upper primary grades-
including:




                                                86

         Reduction of direct costs of schooling through the elimination of voluntary
         feekontributions andthe provisionof textbooks and school supplies for poor children
      0  Provisionof aclean and safe (`girl-friendly') physical environment through the
         replacement of unsound or temporary classrooms, construction of latrines andprovision
          of water points (i.e., storage containers) at these sites
      0   Support to a child-friendly learning environment through school director andteacher
         training,provisionof teaching aids andinstructionalmaterials
      0   Support to Vietnamese languagestrengthening and vernacular languageinstruction in
         ethnic minority areas to improve school readiness and correct-age entry.

 Third, this operation will include the collection of gender-disaggregateddata andencouragethe
 incorporation of gender equality considerations into development plans. Raisinggender
 awarenessand gender analytical skills among policy makers and educators to address specific
 needs and interests of girls will be promotedto the extent possible.

 Finally, local government, mass organizations andparent associations can also play an important
 role to mobilize andraise awareness among parentsto keep girls inschool through at leastjunior
 secondary level. Districts will be eligible to use program funds for public information
 campaigns to publicize the benefits of girls' education.

 The table below provides a list of popular interventions to support gender mainstreaming in
 education, basedon international best practices, and conveys their eligibility within the proposed
 TBS operation.

 Popular interventions to support girls' education
 Intervention                              NTPEligibility
 Latrines                                  NTPeligible
 Clean, safe environment                   NTPeligible
 Fee waivers                               NTPeligible
 Free students books                       NTPeligible
 Free student supplies                     NTPeligible
 Health, sanitary supplies                 Not reported to be a problem
 Labor-saving devices (wells, mills)       N o (beyond program scope)
 Household income supplements              N o (some in-kindtransfers eligible)
 Proximity o f school to home              NTP eligible to improvephysical facilities
 Female teachers                           Teaching force is predominantly female
 Non-punitive pregnancy policy             Not reported to be an issue
 No-harassment policies enforced           Exist already

IPublicity camDaigns                       NTPeligible
 Stereotype free textbooks                 Being addressedindependently by MoET
 Negative view or low expectation of girls Teacher training is NTP eligible




                                                     87

       Annex 14: Barriers to EducationalParticipationfor Ethnic Minority Children
              VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONAL EFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION


While some of Vietnam's 54 ethnic minorities have levels of access, participation and
achievement similar to those of the Kinhmajority, most experience constraints on their
opportunities and abilities to benefit from education. These are some of the key barriers that
constrain equity ineducational access andparticipation for ethnic minority children.

Teachingand learningstyles
Some progress has been made towards changing from a passive to a more active learning style.
However, teaching i s still largely teacher-centered and involves textbook-driven memorization.
Three factors may constrain the transition to active learning methodologies: (i)     insufficient in-
service and on-the-job training; (ii) inflexible timetables, inadequate textbooks and classroom
designs that inhibit student creativity; and (iii)lack of teaching aids. These are widespread
problems throughout the country, but particularly serious in ethnic minority areas.

Curriculumand teaching materials
Pupilsinethnic minority areas were historically exposed to a 100-120week school program, a
condensed version of the formal curriculum. This abridged curriculum i s now being phased out
since it i s considered to provide a substandard education.

Major challenges regarding the curriculum include: (i)     it tends to foster respectfulreceptionof
knowledge and conformity of response at the expense of inquiry, analysis, application and
creation of knowledge; (ii)  time inschool i s inadequate to cover the prescribedcurriculum; (iii)
range of subjects exceeds teachers' expertise; and (iv) the curriculum content i s overcrowded,
unevenly distributed across age ranges and of limitedrelevance to reality, especially inthe
minority areas.

Languageof instruction
The national language of instruction i s Vietnamese; however, there are 54 ethnic minorities in
the country, each with its own language. Insome areas, in order to help preserve the culture of
minority groups, local languages are taught in school, but as a subject rather than as a medium of
instruction. Other challenges include the highcost o f producing materials inminority languages,
languages without a written form, lack o f teachers able to teach inminority languages and
schools with mixedminorities.

Teachers inminority areas often raise the problem of language as one of the constraints to
teaching quality. Monolingual teachers have problems communicating with their pupils and
many children fall behind intheir education due to language difficulties. Head teachers are keen
to hire a greater number of local teachers in their schools who can speak minority languages; but
the number of bilingual teachers i s small and sometimes such teachers have to be shared among
schools.




                                                88

Facilitiesandresources
Ethnic minorities live mainly inthe upland areas. Public services provided are often insufficient
and their quality i s low. This restrains the development of ethnic minorities, especially inremote
areas.

The following factors may limit the supply of and demand for public services among ethnic
minorities: (i)the difficult topography and an inadequate transportation infrastructure; (ii)  the
lack of information about services; (iii)  the costs which are often beyond their purchasingpower;
(iv) the low quality o f some services; and (v) lack of relevance.

The rugged topography of areas where ethnic minorities live severely limits access to education.
Therefore, the government has established an extensive network of boardingand semi-boarding
schools in these areas. Boarding schools, however, are a sort of elite schools usually catering to
children of local authorities. Pupilsreceive tuition, accommodation and textbooks for free.
Semi-boarding school often lack adequate infrastructure. Pupilslive either with local families or
inpoorly-built accommodations. Assessments of these schools have found themto provide
inadequate living and learning conditions. However, according to local education officials,
semi-boarding schools currently fill a gap inorder to achieve the government's goal of WE.

Child,family andcommunity
Generally, educational attainment among most ethnic minorities is very low. Many are illiterate
or have only attended primary school. Children that have parents with little education are
generally disadvantaged inthe education sector because: (i)     they are more likely to live in
poverty; (ii)parentalperceptions that education offers few tangible benefits; (iii) education
                                                                                     poor
of the adult population reinforces low demand for education; and (iv) children find few
(educational) role models; that is, few adults in the community have benefited socially and
economically from higher educational status.

Inaddition, early marriage is acommon practice, particularly inrural anduplandareas.
Contributing factors include: (i) cultural traditions to establish a family early; (ii)
                                                                                      arranged
marriages; and (iii)  the economic need to expand household labor. Early marriage also implies
that parents are themselves young and their social and economic status i s unstable by the time
their children are of school-age.

Finally, although Government policy encourages ethnic minorities to contribute to local
development processes, decision makingi s usually top-down rather than bottom-up. Although
there have been policies targeting areas where ethnic minorities reside, these have been centrally
designedand often lack relevance to the needs of beneficiaries. Inaddition, poor
implementation, monitoring and feedback can limit their effectiveness. For instance, national
educational policies largely determined centrally, such as curriculum content and the language o f
instruction, do not necessarily reflect local realities, especially inminority areas. Lack o f full
participation therefore makes ethnic minorities less likely to enjoy available opportunities that
the education system offers.




                                                89

Opportunity cost
Poor households have often difficulties to cover educational costs andhave a greater needfor
their children to contribute to householdincome. Children of poor householdsare more likely to
enroll late. They spend less overall time in school and less time at a critical age for learning.
Children from poor householdsare also more likely to fail grades and repeat classes, thus
indirectly raisingthe total costs to schooling.

The majority of people of ethnic minorities are working inagriculture, which i s labor-intensive.
Consequently, there is a highdemand for childlabor. This has severaleffects on schooling: (i)
highopportunity coststo sendtheir children to school, leadingto low enrolment, low attendance
and high dropout rates, and (ii)      working for long hours ineither domestic or productive labor
means pupils spendless time studying.



 Barriers                                                                       Interventions
     1. TeachingandLearningStyles                                               Teacher training and
         Under-qualified and inexperienced teachers                             upgrading
         Lack of fluency invernacular languages
         Isolation
         Lack of support, coaching and mentoring
         Teaching methods are not child-centered
         Short instructional teaching hours (about 2 1/2 hours per day)

     2.  Curriculumand TeachingMaterials
I        Lack of workbooks and textbooks                                        Supplies provided for free
         Lack of teaching aids                                                 I
     3. Languageof Instruction
         LimitedVietnamese language proficiency                                 Language readiness support


     4.  Facilitiesand Resources                                                Investments based on needs
         Poor infrastructure                                                    (identified through district
         Lack of minimumresources available for teaching (chalk, blackboard,    level audits)
         furniture)

     5.  Child,Family and Community
         Ethnic minority students are culturally isolated                       Promote community
         Parents do not always see benefits o f education                       participation and school
     0   Illiterate parents and non-Vietnamese speaking environment             accountability
         Absence of community participation indecision making

     6. Opportunitycost                                                         Elimination of direct costs
         Child labor needed to support household                                to schooling for poor
                                                                                children




                                                      90

       Annex 15: DraftInter-MinisterialInstructionfor theEducationNTP2006-2010
             VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONALEFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION



The New Circular for 2006-10 will be of the same format as the current Circular with the
following additions:

I. GeneralProvisions

InusingNTPfunds, provinces should give special attention to achievingFSQLs inorder to
remedy 20-25 percent of the estimated deficiencies intheir provinces ineach of the financial
years 2006,2007,2008.

InAnnex 11,you are providedwith an estimate of the deficiencies inrespect of the standards in
the districts in your province, andthe indicative amount that you are being given for FSQL
purposes each year, including both central government and donor monies.

The kinds of activities that are eligible are exemplified inAnnex I.In addition to the FSQL
items, these also include activities for four focus groups (Vietnamese language readiness for
Year 5, provision for disabledchildren, special provision for girls indisadvantaged areas, and
provision for children of school going age out of school). Focus groups might change each year
as the FSQL framework develops and spreads through system.

Provinces should pay special attention to ensuring that poor children are exempt from any kind
of fees inaccordance with the Education Law.

You have been provided with an estimate of the deficiencies inrespect of the standards inthe
districts in your Province. Inorder to manage and plan the utilization of these specific funds
correctly, quarterly expenditure reports broken down by district, sub-project, level of expenditure
(pre-school, primary, etc), and source of funds will be made available to Ministries and localities
(provinces).

Systematic annual monitoring will be taking place on progress towards the achievement of
national FSQL standards. Provinces that do not show satisfactory progress towards the targets
that will be provided on an annual basis, risk having their allocation for the following year
reduced.

11.     SpecificRegulations

A. Expenditure Items and Norms
Planning and Finance will publish at the beginning o f the program and distribute to provinces
both the Circular and the overall calculations that are the basis for reaching the estimate of 20
percent in General Provisions above; each year they will give specific advice to each province
regarding:




                                                91

    1. Their FSQL gaps
    2. The amount they are allocated for FSQLs purposes andfor other sectors
    3. What they are expected to be achieved inrespect of FSQL standards.

Eligible activities are exemplified inAnnex I;   inthe final draft of the Circular, cost norms will be
provided for each item.

B. Financial ManagementActivities
The management cost estimation allocation and liquidation of funds usedunder the education
and training National Target Program inthe period 2006 to 2010 will follow the procedures,
activities, time schedule tables regulated under State Budget Law, Document on Guidance on
Law Implementation and current regulations.

0   Sub-codes will be introduced into the accounting system (KTKB04and then TABMIS) in
    order to differentiate spending by EducationNTP sub-component by province.

The Peoples' Committee of each province and district-with       the help of an evaluation
committee-will     handle most procurement activities, as currently practiced throughout the
country in accordance with SRV procurement ordinances and regulations.

Provinces are requested to follow established procurement procedures and guidelines. Provinces
and districts will receive guidance on procurement best practices through MoET annual
management meetings and procurement workshops inorder to ensure that procurement for goods
and works yield better quality outcomes and more economically.

Separate codes will be introducedinto the accounting system (KTKB04 andthen TABMIS) in
order to differentiate spending on the EducationNTPby level, and group of FSQL items.

C. Reporting Procedures
BoETs will compile annual progress reports, including progress ineliminating FSQL
deficiencies against the baseline lists, and these will be combined by DoETs into a Provincial
Report that should be annexed to the plan that they submit to MoET inJuly/August of each year.
Provinces are asked to report on achievements andneed to demonstrate progress each year.

At the beginning of each calendar year, small sample spot checks on implementationof plans
will be carried out by central level authorities.

Treasury will compile expenditure reports broken down by province and by Education NTP sub-
component and these will be shared with MoET ina sufficiently disaggregated form.

An annual financial audit will be carried out each year on a sample of districts to compare the
financial statements with what has been achieved.

An annual procurement audit will be carried out on a sample of districts andprovinces focusing
on an assessment of compliance with government procurement rules and procedures, misuse o f
funds andtrends relatedto project outcomes and efficiency.



                                                92

Based on the Prime Minister's Decision issued inFebruary 2005 about transparency and in
accordance with the Decision No. 166-2004/ND-CP 16/9/2004 on decentralization inthe
education sector, the decisions regarding the allocations to districts and schools will be made
publicly available and clearly posted at each provincial, district and school office.




                                              93

x




               c




x    c   x




               c

          C
          0

                       Annex 16: ProjectPreparationandSupervision
            VIETNAM: TBSfor NATIONALEFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION



                                                    Planned                      Actual
PCNreview                                         09/11/2003                   09/11/2003
Initial PID to PIC                                10/07/2003                   10/07/2003
Initial ISDS to PIC                               10/07/2003                   10/07/2003
Appraisal                                         02/21/2005                   04/25/2005
Negotiations                                      04/25/2005                   05/11/2005
BoardiRVP approval                                06/14/2005                   06/ 14/2005
Planneddate of effectiveness                      09/01/2005
Planneddate of mid-term review                         -
Plannedclosing date                               06/30/2009

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project: Ministry of Education and Training.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                                  Title                             Unit
LuisBenveniste                    Task Team Leader, Sr. Education Specialist          EASHD
BinhThanh Vu                      Senior Education Specialist                         EASHD
Carol Ball                        Senior Operations Officer                           EASHD
MaiThiThanh                       Senior Education Specialist                         EASHD
Christopher Shaw                  Lead Education Specialist                           EASHD
Steffi Stallmeister               Education Specialist                                EASHD
Ahsan Ali                         Senior Procurement Specialist                       EAPCO
Irina Luca                        Senior Procurement Specialist                       EAPCO
Joel Turkewitz                    Senior Procurement Specialist                       OPCPR
Jennifer Thomson                  Senior Financial Management Specialist              EAPCO
HungViet Le                       Financial Management Specialist                     EAPCO
Thong Quang Tran                  Financial Management Specialist                     EAPCO
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                   Senior Counsel                                      LEGEA
Xiomara Morel                     Senior Finance Officer                              LOAGl
DavidWebber                       Lead Finance Officer                                LOAGl
Chiyo Kanda                       Peer Reviewer                                        OPCIL
Chingboon Lee                     Peer Reviewer                                       LCSHD
Michel Welmond                    Peer Reviewer                                       MNSHD
LinhVan Nguyen                    Team Assistant                                      EASHD
Chandra Chakravarthi              Program Assistant                                   EASHD
Grayson Clark                     EconomistKonsultant
James Cobbe                       EconomistKonsultant
EktaKothari                       EconomistIConsultant
Peter Moock                       Economist/Consultant



                                              95

Internationalpartners who worked on the project included:

Name                                                    Agency
Alfred Fickers                  Royal Embassy of Belgium
Carlos Lietar                   Royal Embassy of Belgium
Ngo Thu Huong                   Royal Embassy of Belgium
Peter Van Acker                 Royal Embassy of Belgium
Brian Allemekinders             Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency
Camille Baudot                  Canadian International Development Agency
Nora Fyles                      Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency
MarvinLamoureux                 Canadian International Development Agency
LeAnhThao                       Canadian International Development Agency
Blanka Pelz                    Canadian International Development Agency
Nguyen HuuHieu                 Department for International Development, UK
Steve Passingham               Department for International Development, UK
V o Thanh Son                  Department for International Development, UK
Corinne Boulet                 European Commission
Jos Jonkers                    European Commission
Anne Claire Leon               European Commission
Nguyen Thi Lam Giang           European Commission
Anouk Van Neck                 European Commission
Michael Ward                   New Zealand Agency for InternationalDevelopment

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
1. Bank resources: US$321,138.13
2. Trust funds: ---
3. Total: US$321,138.13

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
1. Remainingcosts to approval: US$15,000
2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$75,000




                                           96

                          Annex 17: Documentsinthe Project File
            VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONAL EFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION

Background

Government of Vietnam andWorldBank (2004), Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and Public
       Expenditure Review (IFAPER),Draft.

Ministry of PlanningandInvestment (2004). Country Procurement Assessment Report

WorldBank (2004), Reducing Fiduciary Risks under WorldBank Financed Projects in Vietnam:
       An Approach Paper, Draft.

Education Sector

Attfield, Ian(2003). National Education MIS Status. PrimaryEducationfor Disadvantaged
       ChildrenProject.

Clarke, Grayson(2004), Education SectorMTEF Budget 2004-2007,Draft.

Lamoureux,Marvin (2005). VietnamEducation Sector: Management Capacity Building and
       Institutional Development-A Review of Current Documentation, Unpublished
       manuscript.

MoET (3/2002). Education Development Strategyfor 2001-2010

MoET (2004). Prefeasibility Reportfor the TargetedBudget Supportfor National EFA Plan
       Action Plan Implementation Project.

MoET (2005). Feasibility Reportfor the TargetedBudget Supportfor National EFA Plan
       Action Plan Implementation Project.

MoET (2004). Report on the Concretization of Schools and Classroomsfor the Past Two Years.

MoET (2003). National Educationfor All (EFA)Action Plan 2003 -2015.

MoET (2004). 2004 District Physical Audit: FSQL Statistical Data andAnalysis, Draft,

Nguyen,PhuongLan(2005). Efsects of Social Class and School Conditionon Educational
       Enrollment in Rural Vietnam,Paperpresentedat GlobalEducationConferenceResearch
       at CERGE-EI, Prague,March31-April 2,2005.

Orbach, Elli (2002). Organizational CapacityAssessment of the VietnameseMinistry of
       Education and Trainingand Its Provincial and District OfJices. PrimaryEducationfor
       DisadvantagedChildren Project.




                                           97

O'Rourke, Maris andT.T. Hanh(2005). An Zndependent Review of Provincial Planning Project
        in 10Pilot Provinces in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. ProvincialEducation
       PlanningProject.

St. George, Elizabeth(2004). Assessment of Institutional Capacity to Train in EFA Planning
       Methodology. CIDA.

Tuan, Tran andTranThuHa(2005). Extra Classesat Primary and ChildLeaming Outcomesin
        Vietnam, Paperpresentedat GlobalEducationConferenceResearchat CERGE-EI,
       Prague,March31-April 2,2005.

World Bank (2004). Reading and Mathematics Assessment Study,Volume 1,Washington,DC.

World Bank (2004). Reading and Mathematics Assessment Study,Volume 2, Washington,DC.

World Bank (2004). Reading and Mathematics Assessment Study,Volume 3, Washington,DC.

National Targeted Programs

Inter-MinisterialCircularNo. 81/2003/TTLT/BTC-BDG&DT on instructions on the
       expenditure items, spending norms and expenditure managementfor the
       implementation of the National Target Programfor Education and Training up to
       2005.

Minford, Mark (2004). A Review of National TargetedPrograms in Vietnam,Unpublished
       Manuscript.

MoET (2004). On Evaluation of Education NTP Implementation.

MoET (2005). Report on National TargetedProgramfor Education and Training andproposal
       for the nextfive year NTP 2006-2010.

Ministry of PlanningandInvestment,Financial andMonetaryDepartment(2004). DraB Report
       on theAssessment of the Implementation of Financial Regulationsfor National Target
       Programs and large scale-projects and schemesfinanced by the central state budget in
       theperiod of 2001-2004.

MainstreamingGender

Desai, J. (2000). Public Expenditure and Gender in Vietnam.

MOET (1999). Education and TrainingSector and the Implementation of the 1OthArticle      of
       UN Convention (CEDAW): Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women.

NCFAW (2000). Implementation of Beijing Platformfor Action in Vietnam.




                                              98

Vietnam Women's Union (1997). Education and Labor Situation of Girls in Some Rural Areas
       in Vietnam.


Barriers to Educational Participation for Ethnic Minority Children

Akesson, Gunilla (2002). A Viewfrom the Community. Primary Education for Disadvantaged
       Children Project.

Akesson, Gunilla (2002). Report on Beneficiary Participation and Beneficiary Assessment.
       Primary Education for DisadvantagedChildren Project.

RoyalMinistry of Education andResearch, Norway (2004). Mid TermReview, Education
       Development Support to Ethnic Minorities inDien BienProvince.

Save the Children/UK, (1999). Ethnic Minority Education: Problem Analysis and Program
       Strategy.

Terme, RosaAlonso (2002). TheElimination of Primary Education Contributionsfor the Poor
       in Vietnam-A Case Study in the Political Economy of Pro-Poor Policies, Unpublished
       Manuscript.

VietnamWomen's Union(1997). Workand Education of Ethnic Minority Girls.

Government Decisions

Decision on the establishment of a "Coordination Board" for the implementation of the National
       EFAAction Plan 2003-2015.

Regulation on the FSQL of primary schools includingtheir satellite campuses andclasses (pilot)
       NO.48/2003/QD-BGD&DT 24/10/03.

Resolution on further decentralisation of state managementfrom the central government to local
       governments of centrally-affiliated cities andprovinces, No. 08/2004/NQCP.

Government Decree regulating the state management of education, No. 166/2004/ND-CP

Model of planmaking and allocation according to NationalTargeted Programs, pursuant to
       Prime Minister's DecisionNo. 531/1996/QD-TTg.

Procurement and FinancialManagement

OECD (2005). Harmonizing Donor Practices for Effective Aid Delivery, Volume 3:
       StrengtheningProcurement Capacities inDeveloping Countries, Paris.




                                              99

OECD (2005). Harmonizing Donor Practices for Effective Aid Delivery, Volume 2: Budget
     Support, Sector Wide Approaches and Capacity Development inPublic Financial
    Management, Paris.




                                       100

                                        Annex 18: Statementof Loans and Credits
                    VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONAL EFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION

                                                                                                             Difference between
                                                                                                             expected andactual
                                                         Original Amount inUS$ Millions                         disbursements

Proiect ID FY   Puruose                                IBRD       IDA      SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.    Frm.Rev'd

PO88362    2005 VN-Avian InfluenzaEmergency Recovery     0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00    0.00    5.10    0.00        0.00
PO66051    2005 VN - ForestSector DevelopmentProject     0.00     39.54     0.00      0.00    0.00   40.21    0.02        0.00
PO70197    2004 VN-Urban Upgrading                       0.00   222.47      0.00      0.00    0.00  218.26    0.00        0.00
PO65898    2004 VN-Water Resources Assistance            0.00   157.80      0.00       0.00   0.00  155.74    0.00        0.00
PO59663    2004 VN-RoadNetwork Improvement               0.00   225.26      0.00       0.00   0.00  230.23    3.90        0.00
PO82759    2004 VietnamPRSC I11                          0.00   100.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  101.71   100.00       0.00
PO44803    2003 VN-Primary Educationfor Disadvantaged   0.00    138.76      0.00       0.00   0.00  195.14    3.50        0.00
                Children
PO75399    2003 Public FinancialManagementReform        0.00      54.33     0.00       0.00   0.00   57.06    2.51        0.00
                Proj.
PO71019    2003 VN-GEF Demand-SideManagement &           0.00      0.00     0.00       5.50   0.00    5.50    1.13         0.00
                Energy
PO51838    2002 VN-Primary Teacher Development           0.00     19.84     0.00       0.00   0.00    20.99   10.39        0.00
PO73778    2002 VN-GEF-System EnergyEquitization-        0.00      0.00     0.00       4.50   0.00     5.02   0.89         0.00
                Renewal
PO66396    2002 VN- SystemEnergy Equitization-Renewal    0.00   225.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  241.52   103.69        0.00
PO59936    2002 VN -NorthernMountainsPoverty             0.00   110.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  107.64    31.61        0.00
                Reduction
PO72601    2002 VN  - RuralFinance  I1Project            0.00   200.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  131.21   -53.94        0.00
PO73305    2002 VN-Regional BloodTransfusionCenters      0.00     38.20     0.00       0.00   0.00    43.39   15.36        0.00
PO62748    2001 VN  -Community   BasedRural              0.00   102.78      0.00       0.00   0.00  105.28    20.20        0.00
                Infrastructure.
PO52037    2001 VN-HCMC Environmental SANIT.             0.00   166.34      0.00       0.00   0.00  170.29    30.37      12.57
PO42927    2001 VN-Mekong TranspoNFlood Protection       0.00   110.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  106.35    81.96        0.00
PO59864    2000 VN-2nd RuralTransport                    0.00   103.90      0.00       0.00   0.00    33.16   20.43        0.00
PO56452    2000 VN-Rural Energy                          0.00   150.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    50.51   45.28       -3.20
PO42568    2000 VN-Coastal Wetlandsmot Dev               0.00     31.80     0.00       0.00   0.00    29.78   24.21        0.00
PO04845    1999 VN-Mekong DeltaWater                     0.00   101.80      0.00       0.00   0.00    73.19   64.67        0.00
PO04833    1999 VN-Urban Transport Improvement           0.00     42.70     0.00       0.00   8.19    14.87   21.55        3.73
PO04828    1999 VN-Higher Education                      0.00     83.30     0.00       0.00   0.00    55.88   45.52      26.02
PO51553    1999 VN-3 Cities Sanitation                  0.00      80.50     0.00       0.00   0.00    60.77   40.12        3.43
PO04839    1998 VN - FORESTPROT.& RULDE                 0.00      21.50     0.00       0.00   0.00    16.16   14.66       13.60
PO45628    1998 VN-Transmission andDistribution         0.00    199.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  104.89    97.27      35.98
PO04844    1998 VN-Agricultural Diversification         0.00      66.90     0.00       0.00   0.00    26.07   20.65       -6.29
PO04843    1998 VN-Inland Waterways                     0.00      73.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    45.43   41.41      25.43
PO04830    1997 VN-Water Supply                         0.00      98.61     0.00       0.00  31.28    10.03   45.40        9.46
PO04838    1996 VN-National Health Support              0.00    101.20      0.00       0.00   2.35    19.69   29.17        0.00
                                                Total:  0.00   3,069.53     0.00      10.00  41.82  2,481.07 861.93      120.73




                                                            101

                                                    VIETNAM
                                             STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                          HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                            InMillionsof US Dollars

                                                             ~    ~~


                                                     Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                    IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval Company                     Loan       Equity        Quasi     Partic. Loan      Equity      Quasi  Partic.

2003        ACB-Vietnam                 0.00         5.02           0.00    0.00      0.00    5.02        0.00   0.00
2002        M A G F Vietnam             0.00         1.32           0.00    0.00      0.00    1.32        0.00   0.00
2002        CyberSoft                   0.00         1.25           0.00    0.00      0.00    1.25        0.00   0.00
2002        DragonCapital               0.00         0.00           2.00    0.00      0.00    0.00        2.00   0.00
2002        F-V Hospital                5.00         0.00           3.00    0.00      5.00    0.00        3.00   0.00
2003        GlassEgg                    0.00         1.I5           0.00    0.00      0.00    0.63        0.00   0.00
1998        MFLVinh mat                 0.15         0.00           0.00    0.00      0.15    0.00        0.00   0.00
1997        NghiSon Cement              14.87        0.00           0.00    9.15     14.87    0.00        0.00   9.15
2001        RMIT Vietnam                7.25         0.00           0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
1996        SMHGlassCo.                 5.00         0.00           0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2003104     Sacombank                   0.00         2.32           0.00    0.00      0.00    1.14        0.00   0.00
2002/03     VEIL                        0.00         8.00           0.00    0.00      0.00    8.00        0.00   0.00
1996        VJLC                        0.00         0.75           0.00    0.00      0.00    0.75        0.00   0.00

                       Totalportfolio:   32.27      20.41           5.00    9.15     25.02   18.11        5.00   9.15




                                                                      Approvals PendingCommitment
            FY Approval     Company                             Loan        Equity     Quasi      Partic.
            2002            F-V Hospital                      0.00           0.00       0.00       0.00
            2000            Interflour                        0.01           0.00       0.00       0.01
             1999          MFLChauGiang                       0.00           0.00       0.00       0.00
             1999          MFLMinhMinh                        0.00           0.00       0.00       0.00
            2000           MFLMondial                         0.00           0.00       0.00       0.00
            2000           MFL-AA                             0.00           0.00       0.00       0.00

                                 Total pendingcommitment:        0.01        0.00       0.00       0.01




                                                       102

                                                 Annex 19: Country at a Glance
                   VIETNAM: TBS for NATIONALEFA PLANIMPLEMENTATION
                                                                      East
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 Asia &    Low-
                                                          Vietnam   Pacific income         Development diamond*
2002
 Popuiation,mid-par(millions)                                  80.5   1,838    2,495                   Lifeexqectancy
 GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                              430     950      430
 GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                               34.8   1,740    1,072

 Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                          I                   T
 Population(4                                                   13       10       1.9
 Laborforce (%)                                                 17       12      2.3       GNI                                Gross
                                                                                           per                                primary
 M o s t recent estimate (latest year avaliable, 1996-02)                                  capita                          nrollment
 Poverty (%ofpopulation belownationalpoverty/ine)
 Urban population (%of totalpopulation)                         25       38      30
 Lifeexpectancyat birth (pars)                                  70       69      59
 Infantmortality(per (000iive births)                           26       33       81
 Childmalnutrition (%of childmn under5)                         34        15                    Access to improvedwatersource
 Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopuiation)               77       76      78
 Illiteracy(%ofpopulationage 54                                  7        t3     37
 Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age pOpU/atiOn)           x)6      106       95             -Vietnam
    Male                                                       109      m        103                    LOW-hCOmeQfOUp
    Female                                                                                          ..
                                                               102      E6        87

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                                                                                                        I
                                                1982          1992    2001    2002          Economlc ratios'
 GDP (US$ billions)                                             9.9    32.7      35.1
 Gross domestic investmenilGDP                      ....       7.6     312       32.1
 Exports of goods andserviceslGDP                              34.7    64.6     55.5                       Trade

 Gross domestic savingslGDP                         ....       t3.6    28.8      28.1
 Gross national savingslGDP                                            30.9
 Current account balancelGDP                                   -0.8      16      -1.5      Domestic
 InterestpaynentslGDP                                           0.4       11     0.8       savings                        Investment
 Total debtlGDP                                     ......    246.6    38.5     38.0
 Total debt servicelexqorts                                     7.1     6.7      5.9
 Presentvalue of debffGDP                                              33.6
 Presentvalue of debffexports                                          80.8                              Indebtedness
                                     1982-92 1992-02         2001    2002 2002-06
 (averageannuaigrowfh)
 GDP                                      5 2     7.4           6.9     7.0
-GDP    DercaDita                         2.9     5.8           5.5     5.7
      - ,    .


 STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                1982          1992    2001    2002        I Growth  of investment and GDP
 (%ofGDP)                                                                                                                        ( O h ) 1
 Agriculture                                                   33.9    232      23.0
 Industry                                           ....       27.3     38.1    38.5
   Manufacturing                                               15.4     19.8    20.6
 Services                                           ....       38.8    38.6     38.5
 Private consumption                                           80.7    84.8     65.7      :&      97     98    99    00
 Generalgovernment consumption                                  5.8     6.3      6 2      I                                              I
 imports of goods andsewices                        ......     38.8    56.9     59.5                  -GDi          -GDP    O1       O2



                                             1982-92 1992-02          2001    2002
 (averageannualgrowth)                                                                [Growth o f exports and Imports          ( O h )   1
 Agriculture                                      3.1          4.2      3.0       4.1
 Industry                                         5.0          112      10.4     9.4
   Manufacturing                                  1.9          113      113      11.6
 Services                                         7.9          6.6       6.1     6.5
                                                                                          10
 Private consumption                                           5.0      5.6      7.9
 Generalgovernment consumption                      ....       3.4      6.6      5.4              97    98     99    00     01
 Gross domestic investment                                     U.8      10.8     10.6  I                                                 I
 Imports of goodsandservices                        ....      23.9      2.3     222               -Exports         -Inports          O2




                                                                      103

                                                                                                                   Vietnam

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982    1992     2001     2002
Domestlc prlces                                                                Inflation  ( O h )                          I
(%change)                                                                      10
Consumer prices                                   37.7      -0.4       4.0
ImplicitGDP deflator                              32.6        I 9      4.1     5

Government finance                                                             0
(%of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      97        90     99
Current revenue                                    19.0     214       21.0
Current budget balance                             0.0       5.4      5.5     1"                                           I
Overallsurplusldeficit                                      -2.5      -2.3             -GDPdeflator          -CPI


TRADE
                                         1982    1992    2001      2002
(US$ millions)                                                                  Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                              2475    15,027    )9,706
 Rice                                             300       568       725     p.000  T                                     I
 Fuel                                             756      3 , m    3270      20,000

 Manufactures                                                                  15,000
Total imports (cif)                              2,950    16,162   19,733
 Food                                               82                         10,000

 Fueland energy                                    616     1,871    2,ov       5,000
                                                                              I                                            I
 Capitalgoods                                     950                              0

Export priceindex(1995=WO)                                                             80     87     90    99 00

import priceindex(1995=WO)
Terms of trade (E'95=WO)                                                                         .Exports     olrrports O2
                                                                                                                   O1


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982    1992    2001      2002
(US$mllllons)                                                                  Current account balance t o GDP (%)

Exports of goods andservices                     3,199   7,837     19,654       c _
Imports of goods andservices                     2,950   7,763     2177
Resource balance                          -659    249        54    -1,523
Net income                                 -85   -384      -634     -766
Net currenttransfers                        90      59     1,100    1,767

Current account balance                   -654     -76      521     -522
Financingitems (net)                      456     538      -196      986
Changesinnet reserves                      196   -462      -325     -464       15
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)            0.9 1l202.2  14,725.2  15279.5

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982   1992     2001      2002
(US$ millions)                                                                1Compooltlon o f 2002 debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed        43  24,332    e584      t3.332
 IBRD                                        0      0          0        0
 IDA                                       35      57      1,344    1,715
Total debt service                           0    232      120      l,V4
 IBRD                                        0      0          0        0
 IDA                                         0       1        10       13
Composition of net resource flows
 Official grants                           67      1t3     263
 Official creditors                         7     248      993       686
 Private creditors                           0     140     -591      -641
 Foreign direct investment                  t3    385     1,300     1,100
 Portfolio equity                           0       0          0        0
                                                                                               E:7,635
World Bank program
 Commitments                                0       0      739       558         -
 Disbursements                                                                 A IBRD
                                            16      0                                                          E- Bilateral
                                                           279        261      B ~ i D A  D- Other Mltilaleral F - Privafe
 Principal repayments                       0        1         2       2       C-IMF                           G-Short-term




                                                         104

                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33511

                                               102E                                   104E                       To
                                                                                                                   To   106E                               108E                          110E
                                                                        To
                                                                        To                                       Babao
                                                                      Kunming                  To
                                                                                               To
    VIETNAM                                                                                    Kaiyuan                                       To
                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                             Tiandong           CHINA

                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                          Giang            Cao Bang
                                                                                                                            `
                                                                                                      4
        PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                    5
                                                                                 LLo Cai
                                                                                 o                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                       Phong Tha                                                                         Nanning
        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                    1            Red
                                                                                         3                            9
                                                                                                              8          `BacCan
                                          22N                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                 To                         22N
        RIVERS                                                                                                 Tuyn
                                                                                                               Tuyn           10   Lang                         Hepu
                                                                                                  7            Quang                Son
                                                                          2                                             Thai
                                                                                                 Yn Bi
                                                                                                 Yn Bi
        MAIN ROADS                                                                  Black                               Nguyen
                                                                                                                   13
                                                                                         Sn La
                                                                                         Sn                    12Vinh Yen            14
        RAILROADS                                                        Din
                                                                         Din                          Vit Tr
                                                                                                       Vit Tr
                                                                         Bin Ph
                                                                         Bin Ph                        11                    Bc Giang
                                                                                                                               Bc
                                                                                                                      16     Bc Ninh
                                                                                                                             Bc               15
                                                         To
                                                         To                              6                     HANOI                           Ha Long
        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                 17 Ha Dng
                                                                                                                                Ha Dng
                                                     Muang Xai                                        Ha Bnh
                                                                                                      Ha Bnh   H Dng
                                                                                                                 H Dng  19   20        Hai Phong

        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                22 18      Hung Yen 21
                                                                                                                 H Nam
                                                                                                                 H       23   24
                                                                                                                                  Thi Bnh
                                                                                                                                  Thi Bnh
                                                                                                                              Nam Dinh
                                                                                                                Ninh Bnh
                                                                                                                      Bnh
                                                                                                                          25  26
                                          20N                                                                      Ma                                                                      20N
PROVINCES:                                                                      To
                                                                                To                          27


1 Lai Chau        32 Thua Thien Hue                         LAO                Luang
                                                                              Prabang                                    Thanh Ha


2 Dien Bien       33 Da Nang                        PEOPLE'S                                                                                      Gulf
3 Lao Cai         34 Quang Nam                                                                           28                                                                       Hainan I.
4 Ha Giang        35 Quang Ngai                   DEM. REP.                                                                                          of
5 Cao Bang        36 Kon Tum                                                                    A                                              Tonkin                              (China)
6 Son La          37 Gia Lai                                                                                    Vinh
                                                                                                   n
7 Yen Bai         38 Binh Dinh                                                                        n                   H Tinh
                                                                                                                               ~
8 Tu Yen Quang    39 Phu Yen                                                                             a       29
9 Bac Can         40 Dac Lac              18N                                                    To
                                                                                                  To          m                                                                             18N
10 Lang Son       41 Dac Nong                                                                 Khammouan

11 Phu Tho        42 Khanh Hoa                                                                                      C
12 Vinh Phuc      43 Binh Phuoc                                                                                         o       30      Dng Hi
                                                                                                                                        Dng Hi
13 Thai Nguyen    44 Lam Dong                                                                                             r
14 Bac Giang      45 Ninh Thuan                                                                                              d
15 Quang Ninh     46 Tay Ninh                                                                                                   i                  Dng H
16 Ha Noi         47 Binh Duong                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                   To             l
                                                                                                               Savannakhet           l       31
17 Bac Ninh       48 Dong Nai                              THAILAND                                                                    e                   Hu
18 Ha Tay         49 Binh Thuan                                                                                                          r
19 Hung Yen       50 T.P. Ho Chi Minh                                                                                                       a          32
                                                                                                                                                               33    D Nang
20 Hai Duong      51 Ba Ria-Vung Tau      16N                                                                                                                                              16N

21 Hai Phong      52 Long An
22 Hoa Binh       53 Tien Giang                                                                                                                                           Tam Ky
                                                                                                                                                               34
23 Ha Nam         54 Dong Thap
24 Thai Binh      55 Ben Tre                                                                                                                                                   Qung Ngai
25 Ninh Binh      56 An Giang                                                                                                                                             35
26 Nam Dinh       57 Vinh Long                                                                                                                               Ngoc Linh
                                                                                                                                                             (3143 m)
27 Thanh Hoa      58 Tra Vinh
28 Nghe An        59 Kien Giang                                                                                                                             36   Kon Tum

29 Ha Tinh        60 Can Tho                                                                                                                                                  38

30 Quang Binh     61 Hau Giang                                                                                                                                   Central
                                          14N                                                                                                                                              14N
31 Quang Tri      62 Soc Trang                                                                                                                            Play Cu
                                                                                                                                                                   37                  Quy Nhon
                  63 Bac Lieu                                                                                                                                 Highlands
                  64 Ca Mau

                                                                                                                                                                                39
                                                                                                                                                                                       Tuy Ha
                                                                                               C A M B O D I A                                                   40


                                                                                                                                                                   Bun Ma
                                                                                                                                                                   Bun
                                                                                                                                                                    Thut
                                                                                                                                                                    Thut
                                                                                                                                                                                42
                                                                                                                                                            41                        Nha Trang
                                                                                                                                                         Gia Nghia
                                          12N                                                                           To
                                                                                                                         To                                        D Lat
                                                                                                                                                                   D                       12N
                                                                                                                  Kampong Cham
                                                                                                                                           Dng
                                                                                                                                           Dng
                                                                                                                                              43
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                  To                                                               44          45
                                                                                             Kampong                                        Xoi
                                                                                                                                            Xoi
                                                                                             Chhnang      Meko               46                                                   Phan Rang-
                                                                                                                                                                                  Thp Chm
                                                                                                                              Ty Ninh
                                                                                                                              Ty
                                                                                                                                         47         48
                                                                                                            gn                   Thu Du
                                                                                                                                      Du
                                                                                                                                    Mt
                                                                                                                                    Mt                         49
                                                                                                                                              Bin Ha
                                                                                                                                              Bin Ha
                                                         Gulf                                                                          50                           Phan Thit
                                                                                                                               52
                                                           of                                                    54                       Ho Chi Minh City

                                                                                                            56     Cao Lanh           Tan An        51
                                                   Thailand                                          Long Xuyn
                                                                                                          Xuyn              53      My Tho
                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                                    Vung Tu
                                                                                                                                                     ~
                  VIETNAM                                                          Phu                           Vinh Long           Bn Tre,
                                                                                                                                     Bn
                                                                                Quoc                            60         57
                                          10N                                                    Rach Gi     Cn Tho'
                                                                                                               Cn                   55                                                     10N
                                                                                                              59   61                Tr Vinh
                                                                                                                   Vi Thanh    58
                                         This map was produced by                                                                             D elta
                                         the Map Design Unit of The                                                  62      Sc Trang
                                         World Bank. The boundaries,                                            63
                                         colors, denominations and                                                      Bac Liu
                                                                                                   C Mau                        e  k o n g
                                         any other information shown                                                          M          0       50      100    150     200 Kilometers
                                         on this map do not imply, on                                    64
                                         the part of The World Bank
                                         Group, any judgment on the
                                         legal status    of any territory,                                                               0            50         100          150 Miles
                                         or any endorsement or
                                         a c c e p t a n c e o f  s u c h
                                         boundaries.                                 104E                               106E                                 108E

                                                                                                                                                                                  NOVEMBER 2004

