Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1478 
Project Name 
VN-TBS for NATIONAL EFA PLAN IMPLEMENTATION 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Primary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P085260 
Borrower(s) 
Ministry of Finance 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Education and Training 
49 Dai Co Viet, Hanoi 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
Tel: 844. 869.5116 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[] S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 10, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 17, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
May 31, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Vietnam has expressed strong commitment to achieving universal basic education as a 
foundational stone to social development and economic growth.  This commitment is clearly 
formulated in the Education Development Strategic Plan for 2001-2010 and the Comprehensive 
Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy.  A fully-costed National Education For All (EFA) 
Action Plan has been approved in July 2003 by the Prime Minister and has been jointly reviewed 
and endorsed by international partners and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in 
September 2003.  Vietnam is the only country in the South East Asia region that has qualified to 
date for the EFA Fast Track Initiative.   
During the past decade, Vietnam has accomplished tremendous progress in the field of 
education.  The primary net enrolment rate has increased from 86 percent in 1990 to 91 percent 
in 2003, the dropout rate has declined from 12 percent to about 3 percent, the repetition rate from 
9
percent to less than 5 percent and the completion rate has increased from 47 percent to more 
than 75 percent.  In addition, Vietnam has also significantly developed lower secondary 
education opportunities.  The transition rate from primary to lower secondary has increased from 
78 percent to 88 percent and a majority of young Vietnamese has gained access to nine years of 
basic education. 
However, significant challenges in educational access and quality still remain.  Barriers to 
education access are concentrated in specific regions of Vietnam, where schooling conditions are 
harder due to lack of adequate human resources, prevalence of vernacular languages, high 
poverty incidence, lack of adequate financial resources, low resource mobilization ability at the 
local level and the existence of smaller remote communities that tend to make unit costs of 
education higher.  An estimated 20 percent of ethnic minority children have no access to basic 
Page  2
education.  It is clear that the goal of universal basic education in these disadvantaged areas will 
not be achieved without targeted compensatory programs. 
Furthermore, the quality of primary education remains low and variable.  A study of grade 5 
reading and mathematics achievements in 2001 found that less than 40 percent of primary school 
students in some areas have attained independent learning skills.  A recent survey shows that 80 
percent of primary schools in Vietnam do not have the minimum infrastructure and instructional 
resources required to deliver quality education. 
Despite a rapid increase in budget allocation to the education sector in recent years, funding has 
not been allocated effectively on the basis of need.  Critically, the proportion of the primary 
school budget spent on teachers' salaries is in the order of 95 percent at the expense of non-
personnel expenditures.  This has occurred at a time when the number of children in the primary 
education age range is expected to decrease from about 9.5 to 7.5 million over the period 2000-
2012 due to demographic factors.  Pupil-teacher ratios (PTRs) have fallen to excessively low 
levels in some areas.  The Government of Vietnam (GoV) has transitorily interrupted the 
recruitment of new teacher trainees in some provinces and is currently considering measures to 
right-size teacher supply. 
Financing of the education system still heavily relies on significant contributions from families, 
for both capital and some recurrent expenditures.  Except for limited fee exemptions for 
approximately 10 percent of parents, it is widely acknowledged that direct costs to education are 
a
salient obstacle to schooling access for disadvantaged children.   
Vietnam is committed to the implementation of its National EFA Action Plan and has pledged to 
increase the share of the education budget to 20 percent by 2010.  Official Development 
Assistance (ODA) accounts approximately for 10 percent of the total public education budget.  
But in spite of substantial Government and overseas contributions to education, the existing level 
of effort is not yet sufficient to achieve Vietnam’s targets for EFA by the year 2015.  The EFA 
Plan shows that these objectives will remain elusive without an additional investment of at least 
2
to 2.5 billion dollars for the period 2003-2015.  This situation is compounded by the fact that, 
in order to relieve the burden of education cost-sharing to poor families, additional financing 
must be found to compensate for private contributions to the sector.  The proposed targeted 
budget support intervention would help to partially bridge the estimated financing gap at the 
primary level for the period 2005-2008. 
 
2. Objectives 
The project will contribute towards the achievement of the National EFA Action Plan goals by 
providing targeted budgetary support through the National Targeted Program disbursement 
channel.  Priority will be given to the primary level and the improvement of educational 
outcomes in this subsector.   
More specifically, the project will support the Government of Vietnam to make progress towards 
the improvement of education service delivery through the implementation of minimum quality 
standards, known as Fundamental School Quality Levels (FQSL) in the primary subsector
.
During the life of the project, the share of schools achieving these minimum education quality 
inputs will increase.  
Page  3
In addition, the project will also promote an overarching 
policy framework in education finance, 
planning and governance that will act as an enabling environment 
for improved service delivery.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The Bank has been a long-standing partner of the Ministry of Education and Training.  
Beginning with the Primary Education Project (PEP) in 1993, one of the first World Bank 
projects in Vietnam, a comprehensive strategy of support for basic education has been adopted 
through a process of progressive engagement.  Over the last three years the level of support has 
increased significantly both in terms of the number, size and scope of projects.  Currently, the 
Bank has been leading several co-financed operations, including the Primary Teacher 
Development project, the Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children (PEDC) project and a 
trust-funded activity to support Provincial Education Planning.  Bank-supported projects in basic 
education have increasingly provided the operational context for the piloting of critical elements 
of Vietnam's wider reform agenda that include the development of minimum service delivery 
standards, teacher professional profiles, student achievement testing instruments, a sector 
investment planning methodology and a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).  This 
operation relies and builds on the achievements from these activities. 
The introduction of the fully-costed EFA Action Plan, the increasing importance of decentralized 
education planning and delivery mechanisms and the ongoing support that is being provided to 
strengthen education management capacity at all levels of Government has meant that the time is 
prescient for a coordinated multi-donor funding approach to support EFA goals using 
Government’s own administrative and budgetary structures.  The Bank has played an important 
coordination role with the four co-financiers to this Targeted Budget Support (TBS) operation—
Belgium, Canada, the European Commission and the United Kingdom (subsequently referred to 
as the TBS Partners).     
 
4. Description 
Project beneficiaries will be children attending schools being upgraded to FSQL and out-of-
school children who will be drawn into the education system through NTP interventions.  
Activities are targeted to disadvantaged groups or areas, hence the beneficiary group will contain 
a
higher proportion of poor children and ethnic minorities than the population of Vietnam in 
general.     
There are two project components.  Component 1 strives to support the implementation of FSQL 
standards by channeling official development assistance into the Education National Targeted 
Program.  Component 2 provides technical assistance and capacity building to strengthen the 
administration, implementation and evaluation of the Education NTP.  
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 315.0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
50.00 
BILATERAL SOURCES:  Belgium, CIDA, DFID and European 
Commission 
85.00 
Page  4
Total 450.00 
 
Page  5
6. Implementation 
A
National EFA Committee has been established to coordinate the implementation of the EFA 
Action Plan, while an Inter-Ministerial Working Group has been created to oversee Education 
NTP implementation and coordinate GoV inter-agency and donor relations.  These two groups 
have project oversight responsibility and will ensure that close ties are maintained between the 
Education NTP and relevant EFA Action Plan initiatives.   
The Planning and Finance Department within MoET is the management unit responsible for 
overseeing planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Education NTP.  
Provincial Departments of Education and Training (DoET) and District Bureaus of Education 
and Training (BoET) are the main program executing agencies, following MoET standard 
procedures.  Annually, DoETs develop a plan for the coming year, specifying objectives and 
budgetary needs as well as proposed activities and expected outcomes.  Annual plans are based 
on information provided by school- and district-level stakeholders.  The plan is then submitted to 
the Provincial NTP Steering Committee (comprised of Departments of Finance and Departments 
of Planning and Investment) for approval and ultimately forwarded to MoET.  After receiving 
notification of the State allocated budget, the Steering Committee allocates the budget across 
BoETs and NTP sub-components.   
The provincial level is responsible for overall program implementation and reporting.  The 
central level provides quality assurance and capacity building, as required.  The project will also 
strive to promote community participation and public accountability by encouraging districts and 
schools to involve local level participants in decision-making and make public displays about 
resource allocation and utilization.   
 
7. Sustainability 
The Government has a long-term commitment to achieving universal primary education as 
demonstrated by the Prime Minister’s endorsement of the EFA Action Plan 2003-2015.  The 
EFA Action Plan has been fully costed, with an increasing proportion of Government resources 
committed to the education sector over the EFA period.  
 
This national commitment to address the educational needs of disadvantaged children is also 
evident through the long-standing operations of the Education NTP (established in 1996).  The 
Education NTP budget has grown from US$40 million in 2001 to US$83 in 2004.  Increasing 
levels of central budgetary support has been matched by a high level of support to the program at 
the provincial level.  A review of the Education NTP has found that, for the 47 provinces for 
which full data is available, the central allocation accounted for only 47.1 percent of total funds. 
The MTEF projections consider the required resources to maintain FSQL to be affordable at the 
national and provincial level.  There are also contributory demographic factors at play, as the 
number of primary school-age children is expected to decline within the EFA Action Plan 
period.  With incentives in place to foster that TBS funds do not supplant Government financing, 
the project can be appropriately regarded as a budgetary bridging exercise.  Furthermore, the 
policy, management and reporting approaches that are being trialed by the project are part of 
ongoing Government efforts to improve public service delivery and accountability.  An explicit 
institutional building effort will promote sustainability and implementation capacity at lower 
governance levels. 
Page  6
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
The allocation of funding to basic education has been determined until recently by provincial and 
district general population levels.  This approach greatly favored schools located in highly 
populated, developed urban areas and penalized schools in remote and sparsely populated 
disadvantaged regions.  The Government has recognized that, in order to achieve greater equity 
in educational outcomes, changes in the funding formula were required.  First, the allocation of 
resources to schools has shifted to take into consideration the school age population.  Secondly, a 
greater emphasis was placed on central level targeted compensatory programs to channel 
resources to disadvantaged populations in provinces with limited revenue-raising opportunities.  
The project supports this needs-based funding approach to ensure that all primary schools are 
equipped with a basic set of inputs of acceptable quality.   
Schooling standards in Vietnam have been traditionally associated with elite schools that fulfill 
conditions of excellence.  The concept of FSQL was initially developed under the PEDC project 
and has drawn on extensive in-country experience related to the pedagogical and language needs 
of disadvantaged children in Vietnam.  This is a basic set of school resource requirements related 
to infrastructure, instructional materials, furniture, equipment, teaching skills, management and 
community participation.  FSQL also takes into account the specific needs for instructional 
improvements in isolated multigrade classrooms and communities where vernacular languages 
are spoken.
 
The project supports decentralized planning and service delivery, focusing on districts and 
schools.  This approach was adopted in response to the ongoing shift of administrative, planning 
and management responsibilities to lower governance levels under the current public 
administration reform process.  Empowering provinces, districts and schools (including local 
communities), allowing for local-level flexibility in resource allocation whilst increasing local 
level accountability for educational outcomes, creates an opportunity to customize programs to 
the specific needs.  The project also acknowledges that local level capacity constraints do exist 
and may hinder the achievement of project goals.  A technical assistance facility will help 
strengthen institutional capacity and promote sustainability.  
Finally, the project has adopted a pooled funding approach to support the GoV education 
objectives in order to honor Government ownership, facilitate donor harmonization and 
alignment with Government procedures, reduce transaction costs and strengthen sectoral 
management capacity. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Page  7
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
Contact point 
Contact: Luis Benveniste 
Title: Senior Education Specialist 
Fax: (202) 614-0935 
Email: lbenveniste@worldbank.org 
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
