Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB274 
Project Name 
VN-NATIONAL EFA PLAN IMPLEMENTATION 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Primary education (70%); Secondary education (30%) 
Project ID 
P085260 
Borrower(s) 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Ministry of Education and Training 
49 Dai Co Viet 
Tel: (84-4) 869 4795  Fax: (84-4) 869 4085 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
August 26, 2003 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 14, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 15, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Vietnam has expressed strong commitment to achieving universal basic education as a 
cornerstone of social development and economic growth.  This commitment is clearly 
formulated in the Education Strategic Plan for 2001-2010 and the Comprehensive Poverty 
Reduction and Growth Strategy.  A fully-costed National Education For All (EFA) Action Plan 
has been approved in July 2003 by the Prime Minister.  To date, Vietnam is the only country in 
the South East Asia region that has qualified for the EFA Fast Track Initiative.   
 
During the past 10 years, Vietnam has accomplished tremendous progress in the field of 
education.  The primary net enrollment rate increased from 86% in 1990 to 94% in 2000, the 
dropout rate declined from 12% to less than 3%, the repetition rate fell from 9% to less than 5% 
and the completion rate increased from 47% to more than 75%.  In addition, Vietnam has also 
significantly developed junior secondary (JS) education opportunities.  The transition rate from 
primary to JS has increased from 78% to 88% and a majority of young Vietnamese have gained 
access to nine years of basic education.  The share of education on total public expenditure in 
2003 is 17% and is expected to increase to 20% by 2015. 
 
However, significant challenges in educational access and quality still remain.  First, 
approximately 6% of the school age population has never attended school.  Barriers to education 
access are concentrated in specific regions of Vietnam, where schooling is made harder due to 
lack of adequate human resources, prevalence of vernacular languages other than Vietnamese, 
high poverty incidence, lack of adequate financial resources, limited resource mobilization  at the 
Page  2
 
 
local level and the existence of smaller remote communities that tend to make unit costs of 
education higher.  An estimated 30% of ethnic minority children have no access to basic 
education.  It is clear that the goal of universal basic education in these disadvantaged areas will 
not be achieved without targeted programs. 
 
Second, financing of the education system still heavily relies on significant contributions from 
families, for both capital and some recurrent expenditures.  Except for limited fee exemptions for 
approximately 10% of parents, it is widely acknowledged that direct costs to education are a 
salient obstacle to schooling access for disadvantaged children. 
 
Overseas Development Assistance (ODA) accounts approximately for 10% of the total public 
education budget.  But despite substantial Government and overseas contributions to education, 
the existing level of effort is not yet sufficient to achieve Vietnam’s targets for EFA by the year 
2015.  The National EFA Action Plan shows that these objectives will remain elusive without an 
additional investment of 2 to 2.5 billion dollars for the period 2003-2015 (see EFA Technical 
Annex IV for full costing).  This situation is compounded by the fact that additional financing 
must be mobilized to relieve the burden of education cost-sharing to poor families.  The 
proposed targeted budget support intervention would help to bridge the estimated financing gap 
at the primary level for the period 2005-2006.   
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
First, the project will provide budget support the Government of Vietnam needed to make 
progress towards the achievement of its National EFA goals, 
in particular with regard to
 
expanding access to universal basic education for
 
poor and disadvantaged children
.    
 
In addition, the project will support the improvement of educational quality
 through the 
implementation of minimum quality standards, commonly referred to as “Fundamental School 
Quality Levels” (FSQL).  The FSQL standards establish minimum service delivery criteria in 
terms of infrastructure, teaching staff qualifications, in service professional development, school 
organization and management and schooling inputs.  During the life of the project, the share of 
schools achieving FSQL standards will be expected to increase.  In addition, the share of schools 
offering a full-day curriculum will grow.      
 
Finally, the project will support a 
policy framework in education finance, planning and 
governance that will act as an enabling environment 
to promote expanded educational access 
and improved service delivery.  In support of the EFA strategy objective to make free primary 
school available to all children by 2015, direct cost and fee exemptions for disadvantaged 
students will be expanded during the project period.  The school funding formula will 
accommodate provisions for compensatory financing to better serve poor children.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed support program consists of an earmarked budget support operation to the 
education sector in support of National EFA goals in basic education and the promotion of 
Page  3
 
 
minimum service delivery standards.  The funding gap to achieve primary education goals is 
calculated at about USD 50 million per year on average.  
 
The project will utilize a specific purpose transfer disbursement channel, introduced by the 
revised Budget Law, which will top-up traditional equalization budget transfers from the central 
government to sub-national governments.  These specific purpose transfers will channel 
resources to specific policy priorities and interventions in provinces, districts, communes and 
schools, which cannot be reallocated to other purposes by sub-national governments.  These 
earmarked budget transfers can support both recurrent and capital expenditures.       
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
Indigenous peoples
:  This is a targeted budget support operation to advance an overarching 
enabling policy environment aimed at expanding educational opportunities and enhancing 
education service delivery for disadvantaged communities.  The project is expected to benefit 
districts and provinces where indigenous peoples reside.  Earmarked budget transfers from the 
central government to sub-national governments will support the attainment of education 
minimum quality standards. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
50 
 Total 
50 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Luis Benveniste 
Title: Senior Education Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-8495 
Fax: (202) 614-0935 
Email: lbenveniste@worldbank.org 
 
