                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001284



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-40890)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.0 MILLION
                         (US$ 50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                        SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                    FOR A

    TARGETED BUDGET SUPPORT FOR NATIONAL EDUCATION FOR ALL PLAN
                     IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM



                                December 8, 2009




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                 (Exchange Rate Effective 11/13/2009)
                                Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                                      VND 1.0= US$0.00005596
                                       US$1.00 = VND17,869.50

                                                    FISCAL YEAR



                                               January 1 ­ December 31



                                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BCEP   Building Capacity for Education Planning                M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
BoET   Bureau of Education and Training                        MoET      Ministry of Education and
                                                                         Training
BoF    Bureau of Finance                                       MoF       Ministry of Finance
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                             MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure
                                                                         Framework
CIDA   Canadian International Development Agency               MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
CPAR   Country Procurement Assessment Report                   MPI       Ministry of Planning and
                                                                         Investment
CPRG   Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy     NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
S
DCA    Development Credit Agreement                            NTP       National Targeted Program
DFA    District FSQL Audit                                     ODA       Official Development Assistance
DFID   Department for International Development                PAD       Project Appraisal Document
DoET   Department of Education and Training                    PC        People's Committee
DoF    Department of Finance                                   PEDC      Primary Education for
                                                                         Disadvantaged Children Project
DPI    Department of Planning and Investment                   PEP       Primary Education Project
EC     European Commission                                     PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
EFA    Education for All                                       PTDP      Primary Teacher Development
                                                                         Project
EMIS   Education Management Information System                 PTR       Pupil-Teacher Ratio
FMIS   Financial Management Information System                 SBV       State Bank of Vietnam
FMR    Financial Management Review                             SEDS      Socio-Economic Development
                                                                         Strategy
FMT    Financial Management Technical Review                   SEQAP     School Education Quality
R                                                                        Assurance Program
FSQL   Fundamental School Quality Level                        SREM      Support to the Renovation of
                                                                         Education Management
FSQL   Fundamental School Quality Level Input Indicator        SRV       Socialist Republic of Vietnam
II
FTI    Fast Track Initiative                                   TBS       Targeted Budget Support
IDA    International Development Association                   UPE       Universal Primary Education
GOV    Government of Vietnam                                   WB        World Bank
VJ
CV
SE
PE
IE
                                      VIETNAM
  Targeted Budget Support for National Education for All Plan Implementation Program


                                                              Contents

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...................................................... 13
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................ 7
3.    Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................... 22
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................................. 38
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance............................................................... 39
6.    Lessons Learned................................................................................................................. 42
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.................... 45
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 50
Annex 2: Outputs by Components/Sub-Components ................................................................... 51
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................................. 58
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................. 63
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results [Not Applicable] ............................................................... 66
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results [Not Applicable]....................................... 67
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................................... 68
Annex 8. Joint Partners External Evaluation ................................................................................ 79
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents....................................................................................... 87
Map IBRD 33511R ....................................................................................................................... 89
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Support for National
                                                                           Education-for-All Plan
Country:                Vietnam                  Project Name:
                                                                           Implementation
                                                                           Program
Project ID:             P085260                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-40890
ICR Date:               12/17/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF
                                                                           VIETNAM
Original Total
                        XDR 33.0M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 33.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 33.0M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education and Training
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/11/2003      Effectiveness:          01/26/2006           01/26/2006
Appraisal:            04/04/2005      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/28/2005      Mid-term Review:        09/17/2007           09/17/2007
                                      Closing:                06/30/2009           06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     7                    7
Primary education                                                     93                  93


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     50                  50
Gender                                                                25                  25
Indigenous peoples                                                    25                  25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Victoria Kwakwa                      Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:            Eduardo Velez Bustillo               Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:       Emanuela Di Gropello                 Luis Benveniste
ICR Team Leader:           Emanuela Di Gropello
ICR Primary Author:        Suzana Nagele de Campos Abbott


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project will assist the borrower in the implementation of its National Education for
All Plan through targeted budgetary support for selected sub-components of the
Educational National Targeted Program (NTP) designed to enhance the quality of basic
education, and through strengthening of the administration of the Education National
Targeted program. Priority will be given to the primary level and the improvement of
educational outcomes in this sub-sector.


                                               ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                              documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Gross Intake Rate in Grade 1
Value
quantitative or 100%                                                        106.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2005                                                    06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Net Primary Enrolment
                                                                            100% (FSQL audit)
Value           100% (FSQL audit)
quantitative or
                                                                                 96.1%
Qualitative)    95% (MOET/EMIS)
                                                                                 (MOET/EMIS)
Date achieved 11/30/2005                                                         06/30/2009
                Baseline NER according to FSQL audit was overestimated. Methodology for
Comments
                assessment of NER was adjusted by completion and therefore, latest NER value
(incl. %
                is likely to reflect an increase. This is also confirmed by the NER generated by
achievement)
                MOET/EMIS data.
Indicator 3 : Grade 1 Drop Out Rate
Value
quantitative or 3.0%                                                             2.3%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2005                                                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Grade 1 Repetition Rate
Value
quantitative or 2.3%                                                             3.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2005                                                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Primary Completion Rate
Value
quantitative or 89%                                                              98.2%
Qualitative)



                                               iii
Date achieved     11/30/2005                                                   06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Student Achievement in Grade 5 (Standardized Learning Assessment)
Value
                  Math: 79.9                                                   Math: 86.7
quantitative or
                  Language: 51.3                                               Language: 61.0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2001                                                   06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          This refers to the indepdendent learner benchmark.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Pupil-Teacher Ratio
Value
quantitative or   22.0                                                         19.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2005                                                   06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Per Student spending on Non-Salary items (in VND, 2003)
Value
quantitative or   66,000                                                       136,080
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2004                                                   06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Still to be updated to 2007/08
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Gender Parity Index (added in last ISR as part of IDA core indicators)
Value
quantitative or                                                                1.01 (FSQL audit)
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                  06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Average district FSQL index
Value
(quantitative   65.0                                                           70.9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2005                                                       06/30/2009


                                                   iv
Comments
                  Baseline value was slightly readjusted at completion to reflect consistency in
(incl. %
                  methodology
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number and % of schools that score >80 in FSQL index score
Value
                  2,443                                                          3,804
(quantitative
                  16%                                                            24%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2004                                                     06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number and % of teachers to have received 5 or more days of in-service training
Value
                  237,738                                                        222,303
(quantitative
                  66%                                                            64%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2005                                                     06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          This is not a cumulative indicator but an indicator of teachers trained very year
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number and % of grades to have teaching aids for reading
Value
                  127,095                                                        235,739
(quantitative
                  81%                                                            88%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2005                                                     06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number and % of schools to have potable water
Value
                  11,248                                                         18,129
(quantitative
                  28%                                                            48%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2005                                                     06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Number and % of classrooms to have a good blackboard
Value
                  110,137                                                        217,113
(quantitative
                  49%                                                            96%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2005                                                     06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Number and % of classrooms to have achieved school construction FSQL
Value
                  136,909                                                        163,501
(quantitative
                  61%                                                            73%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2005                                                     06/30/2009


                                                  v
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                1) Central, Provincial and District financial and performance reporting
                mechanisms and management capacity improved
Indicator 8 :
                2) education budget increases in % of national budget
                3) formula funding improved
                                            1) Fully functional
                                                                                1) New monitoring
                                            monitoring and
                                                                                and planning tools
                                            reporting
                1) Reporting mechanisms                                         developed and Joint
                                            mechanisms and
                weak                                                            Circular issued
Value                                       satisfactory
                2) 18.6% (2004)                                                 2) 20.1% (2008)
(quantitative                               management
                3) Funds not sufficiently                                       3) Needs-based
or Qualitative)                             capacity
                driven by needs and                                             transparent
                                            2) 19.1%
                performance                                                     allocation formula
                                            3) Equitable and
                                                                                applied to 2009
                                            efficient formula
                                                                                ENTP
                                            funding
Date achieved 12/31/2004                    06/30/2009                          06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        See policy matrix benchmarks for full set of intermediate results indicators
achievement)
                Decline in shortfall of qualified teachers (added in last ISR as part of IDA core
Indicator 9 :
                indicators)
                                                                                Shortfall in teachers
                Shortfall in teachers with
                                                                                with 12+2=15% N
                12+2=25% N and % of
Value                                                                           and % of teachers
                teachers having received
(quantitative                                                                   having received 5
                5 or more days of in-
or Qualitative)                                                                 or more days of in-
                service training: 228,849
                                                                                service training:
                - 64%
                                                                                166,236 - 52%
Date achieved 11/30/2005                                                        06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Decline in shortfall of classrooms (added in last ISR as part of IDA core
Indicator 10 :
                indicators)
                                                                                Shortfall in quality
                Shortfall in quality
                                                                                (FSQL) classrooms:
                (FSQL) classrooms: 39%
Value                                                                           30% N and % of
                N and % of classrooms to
(quantitative                                                                   classrooms to have
                have achieved school
or Qualitative)                                                                 achieved school
                construction FSQL =
                                                                                consctruction FSQL
                136,909 - 61%
                                                                                = 155,996 - 70%
Date achieved 11/30/2005                                                        06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                 vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    05/15/2006       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  2    12/01/2006       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              2.50
  3    08/28/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            17.50
  4    01/02/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            35.00
  5    06/12/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            35.00
  6    02/07/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            35.00
  7    06/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            50.19


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vii
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

At the time of Appraisal, Vietnam had demonstrated strong commitment to achieving universal
basic education as a foundation to social development and economic growth, as reflected in the
Education Development Strategic Plan for 2001-2010 and the Comprehensive Poverty Reduction
and Growth Strategy (CPRGS). A fully costed National Education for All (EFA) Action Plan,
which provided a credible strategic framework, had been approved and endorsed by Vietnam's
international partners and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). At the time, Vietnam was
the only country in the South East Asia Region that had qualified to take part in the EFA Fast
Track Initiative (FTI).


Vietnam had made considerable progress in education in the earlier decade. Between 1990 and
2003, the primary net enrolment rate (NER) had significantly increased to reach levels of above
90 percent, the dropout and repetition rates had decreased from 12 percent to about 3 percent and
from 9 percent to less than 3 percent, respectively, and the completion rate had increased from 47
percent to about 90 percent. Vietnam had also made significant progress in developing lower
secondary education opportunities. The transition rate from primary to low secondary had
increased from 78 percent to 88 percent; a majority of Vietnamese youth had gained access to
nine years of basic education.


However, Vietnam still faced, at the time, significant challenges in educational access and
quality. Barriers to education access were concentrated in specific regions and rural areas
where schooling conditions were harder due to lack of adequate human resources, prevalence of
vernacular languages, high incidence of poverty, lack of adequate financial resources, low
resource mobilization ability at the local level and the existence of smaller remote communities
that tended to make the unit costs of education higher. An estimated 20 percent of children from
some minority groups had no access to education, and it was increasingly apparent that universal
basic education in these areas could only be achieved through targeted compensatory programs.


The quality of education was low and variable, and it was estimated that a significant proportion
of Vietnam's primary schools did not have the minimum infrastructure and instructional
resources they needed to deliver quality education.


Vietnam was at the time carrying out an ambitious reform of the teaching profession with
assistance from Department for International Development (DFID) and the World Bank (WB)
under the Primary Teacher Development Project (PTDP). The reform addressed the introduction
of professional teaching standards and accreditation of teacher training, review of teachers' work
and terms of service, creation of options for credentialing, performance/remuneration at different
levels and right-sizing the teaching force. It was also implementing the Bank and donor-
financed Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children (PEDC) project that aimed to improve
the access to primary education and the quality of education for disadvantaged children through,
inter alia, a component targeted at raising the fundamental school quality level (FSQL) of
schools in the country's most disadvantaged districts.


There were also important challenges with respect to the sector's financing. Despite a rapid
increase in budgetary allocations to the education sector -- the sector's share of total public
expenditures in 2003 was 17 percent-- funding was not being allocated effectively, in particular
to address the needs of disadvantaged groups. About 95 percent of the primary school budget
was spent on teachers' salaries, leaving minimal resources for non-personnel expenditures. As
a result, financing of the education system still relied heavily on significant contributions from
families for both capital and some recurrent expenses.


As part of its National EFA Action Plan, Vietnam had committed to increase the share of its
education budget to 20 percent by 2010. Official Development Assistance (ODA) accounted for
approximately 10 percent of the total education budget. Still, the existing levels of funding were
not considered sufficient to achieve Vietnam's EFA targets by 2015, and an additional $2 billion
to $2.5 billion would be required over the period 2003-2015. Furthermore, additional funding to
compensate for private contributions was considered fundamental towards relieving the burden
of education cost-sharing to poor families. The International Development Authority's (IDA's)
support to the Targeted Budget Support (TBS) Program, along with that of other donors, was
designed to partially bridge the estimated financing gap at the primary level for the period 2005-
2008.


The TBS operation was expected to support the Government's strategic approach to poverty
reduction through: (a) prioritizing financial assistance to achieve specific education goals to
localities in greatest need; (b) providing top-up funds for non-salary expenditures to improve the
quality of basic education; (c) promoting planning, management and service delivery based on
evidence-based needs analyses ­ supporting the use of FSQL; (d) encouraging local community
demand; (e) strengthening governance as well as accountability, monitoring and evaluation
procedures to assess continuously and in a timely fashion the effectiveness of education
programming, resource allocation and resource utilization; (f) enhancing necessary
administrative and financial management systems, particularly at the local level, in order to
complement the ongoing decentralization and public administration reform efforts; and (g)
providing technical support in order to respond to the challenges of uneven capacity across
provinces and districts. Building on budget support arrangements that had been developed under
the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) series, the TBS operation aimed to channel ODA
more efficiently and reduce transaction costs by using a sector budget support and delivery
mechanism.


                                                2
1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The TBS operation's development objectives were to assist the Recipient in the implementation
of its National EFA Plan through targeted budgetary support for selected sub-components of the
Educational National Targeted Program (ENTP) designed to enhance the quality of basic
education, and through strengthening the administration of the ENTP. At the Government's
request, priority was given to the primary level (in part because this was the only level that
incorporated minimum standards of access and quality, as defined by the FSQL regulation) and
the improvement of educational outcomes at that level.

A key assumption in the design of the TBS was that the provision of FSQL-inputs to schools that
served poor children and ethnic minorities would be necessary and sufficient to improve both
access and quality outcomes. Because schools below FSQL tended to serve poorer communities,
the beneficiary group was expected to contain a higher proportion of poor children and ethnic
minorities than the population of the country in general. Initial amounts of ODA financing,
including the Bank's assistance, were expected to provide resources needed to cover
approximately one-third of the shortfall in FSQL deficiencies in primary schools in Vietnam.
Strengthening the administration of the National Targeted Program (NTP) was to be achieved
through capacity building strategies and actions that would enhance the Ministry of Education
and Training's (MoET's) ability to perform and comply with its existing performance
benchmarks such as financial and administrative regulations and procedures, and adapt to
emerging demands and requirements.
Progress towards the accomplishment of PDOs and outputs was to be monitored yearly based on
key performance indicators of education access, quality and efficiency and a policy matrix (see
Table 4 and Annex 2).

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
       and reasons/justification

The Project's development objectives and key indicators were not revised during
implementation.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

The TBS Project's main beneficiaries were to be primary school-aged children who were to be
provided with the following benefits for primary education: reduced dropout and repetition,
higher primary completion rates, enhanced net enrollment rates from inclusionary interventions
for out-of-school children, improved transition rates to lower secondary schools and improved
quality of education in schools. Primary school-aged children in rural/isolated areas as well as
high-poverty districts would especially benefit through targeted funding to elevate local schools
in disadvantaged localities to a minimum service delivery standard that would help address
existing inequities.

1.5    Original Components (as approved)


                                               3
The Project had two components. Component 1 aimed to support the implementation of FSQL
standards by channeling official development assistance into the ENTP. Component 2 aimed to
strengthen MoET's institutional capacity to administer and implement the ENTP.




Component 1: Achievement of FSQL Standards through TBS to the ENTP
(US$123 million total, including IDA and bilateral funding sources).


The targeting of resources was to be based on an assessment of the financing gap needed to
improve educational outcomes and satisfy minimum standards of access and quality, as defined
by the FSQL regulation, in disadvantaged schools and districts. The FSQL standards established
minimum service delivery criteria in terms of physical infrastructure, instructional materials,
teaching staff qualifications, in-service professional development, school organization and
management and school-community linkages. It also included a framework to enhance teacher
capacity, school leadership and community participation while promoting inclusive education for
traditionally disenfranchised communities.


The ENTP mechanism was considered a useful vehicle to enhance pro-poor allocative efficiency
and provide additional resources for the accomplishment of agreed sector priorities. The MoET
has received technical assistance during preparation of the TBS Project to review and amend the
then existing joint MoET-Ministry of Finance (MoF) Inter-Ministerial Circular that regulated the
purpose, contents, targeting, budget management and implementation of the ENTP.


The TBS was to focus on five of the seven existing ENTP sub-components:



   ·   Sub-component 1: Illiteracy elimination, consolidation of Universal Primary Education
       (UPE) and achievement of Universal Lower Secondary Education

   ·   Sub-component 2: Renovation of the curriculum and textbooks/teaching methods

   ·   Sub-component 4: Upgrading infrastructure of Teacher Training Institutions and teacher
       qualifications

   ·   Sub-component 5: Support for the education of ethnic minorities and disadvantaged
       regions

   ·   Sub-component 6: Infrastructure development



                                               4
The Inter-Ministerial Circular placed emphasis on innovative ways to encourage school
attendance by special needs children, who were frequently out of school. Activities eligible for
financing included:
    · Outreach activities to attract out-of-school children

   ·   Renovation and construction of classrooms, latrines and libraries

   ·   Provision of teacher aids, equipment, instructional materials or free textbooks for schools
       servicing disadvantaged children (due to poverty, ethnic background, disability)

   ·   Teacher upgrading and in-service training in areas such as Vietnamese as a second
       language, vernacular language instruction, multi-grade teaching, inclusive education and
       school readiness for Grade 1

   ·   Principal training in school management, planning and mobilizing communities for UPE

   ·   Community participation and Parent/Teacher Association (PTA) activities to encourage
       enrolment and to retain children in school.
The ENTP is a centrally-sponsored scheme in which the MoET indicates to the provinces the
expected allocations of central State budget funds to ENTP sub-components. However,
provincial authorities have full discretion over planning, investment and resource allocation.
Unlike a traditional investment credit, there were to be no legal ex ante financing allocations
under the TBS Project. The Project was to support provincial and district ENTP annual work
programs as well as technical assistance and capacity building to strengthen program
management, allocative efficiency and equity, financial accountability, monitoring and outcome
evaluation.
ENTP expenditures are financed not only by the central Socialist Republic of Vietnam (SRV)
State budget, but also by provincial and district supplements, community contributions, transfers
from other special programs and other minor sources. IDA funds were to be pooled with
bilateral donor partners' grant funds and channeled directly into the State budget via the State
Bank of Vietnam (SBV) and the central Treasury. Donor funds were to be indistinguishable
from central SRV funds, and there was therefore to be no intent to track ODA funds separately
from those of other State budget expenditures.
The ODA contribution to the ENTP was to total on average approximately 24 percent of the
central State contributions to the relevant ENTP sub-components or approximately 10 percent of
the total ENTP funds available for those sub-components (including, central, provincial,
community and other sources). The SRV committed to increase the yearly central State budget
counterpart financing for the ENTP by approximately 10 percent per annum from its 2005 level.
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening for ENTP Administration and Implementation
(US$5 million, parallel financed from bilateral sources, but jointly managed by all TBS
partners)
This component was to be financed from a parallel capacity building technical assistance fund,
that was to be predominantly reserved for support to the central, provincial and district levels on
planning, allocation, procurement, financial management and institutional strengthening issues,
as well as for enhancing community consultation and empowerment. Funds were also to be
allocated to independent implementation progress reviews (including procurement and financial
management audits), some local-level monitoring by social organizations and commissioning

                                                5
case studies on ENTP administration, monitoring and impact evaluation. This component
included support to the following broad categories of activities: (i) ENTP Management and
Administration; (ii) Capacity Building; (iii) Monitoring, Assessment and Evaluation; (iv) Inter-
Ministerial Coordination; and (v) Program Administration, TBS-EFA Review and ENTP
External Audits.
The Project's expected contribution to the overall institutional strengthening of the ENTP
management and monitoring system was to include:
    · Effective needs-based targeting of funds

      ·   Educational output and outcome results-based reporting

      ·   Enhanced accountability of education administrators

      ·   Effective and transparent financial reporting, supervision and audit

      ·   Efficient public procurement processes through rigorous benchmarking and capacity
          building.
In addition, the project aimed to strengthen the policy environment within which schools
operated through a policy matrix1 detailing supportive government policies and benchmarks.
Annual performance monitoring would incorporate regular appraisals of the policy environment
in which the project operated. Some of the key areas included:
    · Implementation of provincial education planning

      ·   Strengthening of resource allocation

      ·   Student achievement measurement and monitoring

      ·   Enhanced pro-poor budgeting and spending

      ·   Inter-ministerial coordination

      ·   Non-salary expenditure per student
Planning and implementation of activities related to ENTP institutional strengthening would be
closely coordinated with related parallel donor activities addressing critical capacity building
issues.
Disbursements. ODA funding for the Component 1 of TBS was to be made against advances
and then subsequent ex-post reviews on the basis of expenditure performance for all sources in
participating provinces under the five sub-components of the Education NTP, up to a previously
agreed maximum and upon demonstrating progress in reducing FSQL deficits. According to the
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed by the Government and TBS Partners (Belgium,
Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the European Commission and IDA), disbursements
for each of fiscal years 2006, 2007 and 2008 would be made following an annual review meeting
to be held no later than September 15 of each year on the basis of: (i) the annual work program
for selected Sub-components of the ENTP and Component, provided by MoET; (ii) Financial
Monitoring Reports for the previous two semesters indicating sources and uses of funds for each

1
    See Annex 2.

                                                   6
of the Sub-components, physical progress in the implementation of each Sub-component, and the
sources and uses of funds for Component 2; (iii) annual financial statements and financial audit
reports of the ENTP for the preceding fiscal year; and (iv) the annual procurement audit report.
1.6     Revised Components

The Project's components were not revised during implementation, although there were
significant delays in the implementation of Component 2. As planned, the implementation of
Component 2 will continue through December 31, 2010.

1.7    Other Significant Changes

Not Applicable.




2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Bank had been a long-standing partner of MoET. Beginning with the Primary Education
Project (PEP) in 1993, a comprehensive strategy of support for basic education had been adopted
through progressive engagement. During the three-year period immediately preceding appraisal,
the level of Bank support had increased significantly in terms of the number, size and scope of
projects. The Bank was, at the time, leading several co-financed operations, including the
Primary Teacher Development project, the Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children
project, and a trust-funded activity to support provincial education planning capacity. ODA-
supported projects had increasingly provided the operational context for piloting critical
elements of Vietnam's wider reform agenda that included: the development of minimum service
standards (or "Fundamental School Quality Levels or FSQL"), teacher professional profiles,
student achievement testing instruments, a sector investment planning methodology, a Medium
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), and a computerized Education Management Information
System (EMIS). This operation was designed to rely and build upon the achievements and
lessons of experience from these reform activities.


Alignment with Government, Bank and other donors' priorities. The introduction of a fully-
costed EFA Action Plan, the increasing importance of decentralized education planning and
delivery, and the support that was being provided to strengthen education management capacity
at all levels of Government provided a unique opportunity for developing a coordinated multi-
donor approach to funding EFA goals using the Government's administrative and budgetary
systems. Taking advantage of this opportunity, the Bank assumed a coordination role with
Belgium, Canada, the European Commission, New Zealand and the United Kingdom (the TBS
partners) in the development and implementation of the TBS operation.

                                               7
The TBS operation was fully aligned with the then current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
goal of "making basic social services accessible and affordable for the poor". The Government
had recently renewed its commitment to provide Universal Primary Education, and this
commitment was reflected in several Government plans and strategies. The National EFA
Action Plan provided the strategic framework for long-term education development and brought
together the national education goals and targets under the Socio Economic Development
Strategy (SEDS) 2001-2010, the Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
(CPRGS), the Education Development Strategic Plan for 2001-2010 and the Vietnam
Development Goals.
Lessons learned. The design of the TBS operation incorporated several lessons learned from
previous involvement. First, it supported a change in the Government's funding formula for
basic education aimed at promoting greater equity in educational outcomes. Previously, the
allocation of recurrent funding to education had been determined by provincial and district
general population levels which favored schools located in highly populated, developed urban
areas at the expense of those in remote and sparsely populated disadvantaged regions. The new
funding formula altered the resource allocation formula to consider the size of the school age
population while placing greater emphasis on central level targeted compensatory programs to
channel resources to disadvantaged groups. Second, the operation supported the concept of
FSQL initially developed under the PEDC Project, shifting the emphasis on schooling standards
from one traditionally associated with elite schools that fulfilled conditions of excellence to one
that focused on a basic set of school resource requirements, taking into account the specific
needs for instructional improvements in isolated multi-grade classrooms and communities.
Third, in response to the ongoing shift of administrative, planning and management
responsibilities to lower governance levels under the then ongoing public administration reform
process, the TBS operation supported decentralized planning and service delivery focusing on
districts and schools (while recognizing that local level capacity constraints could affect the
achievement of project goals). Finally, in order to facilitate donor harmonization and alignment
with SRV procedures, reduce transaction costs and strengthen sector management capacity, the
TBS operation adopted a funding approach whereby ODA funds were fully merged with
domestic funds to support the government's education objectives.
Participatory process. Project preparation was built upon an extensive consultation effort during
the design of the PEDC Project and the development of FSQL principles. During preparation,
eleven field visits were made and discussions were maintained with provincial representatives,
district officers, teachers, principals, primary students and community members from urban,
rural and remote areas. Focus group discussions were held at school sites, and provincial
consultations reviewed preliminary project proposals.
Choice of instrument. The preparation and consultation process also included extensive
discussions on the choice of instrument. Most donors supported an approach which would
provide support to an already established Government program, while strengthening
Governments' systems and minimizing transaction costs through donor harmonization,
alignment with SRV procedures and ultimately a funding approach pooling all funds into the
Treasury. As such, this approach was very much in line with a "budget support" which could
have led to the choice of a DPL. At the same time, however, maintaining a closer grip on
education sector funding and technical support, together with the need to actively support and

                                                8
accompany the Government in the introduction and use of FSQL in the ENTP, was also
considered to be a priority by the World Bank, leading to a preference for a SIL over a DPL. In
this context, and after various discussions and consultations among donors and with the
Government, an "hybrid" approach was finally chosen whereby a SIL was finally selected but
with characteristics tending very much towards a budget support approach ­ leading to the
admittedly rather ambiguous appellation of "targeted budget support" (which raised several
"eyebrows" in some parts of the World Bank). In fact, as further developed below, this ended up
being a very much a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp), in its purest sense, probably ahead of time
for the complex and low capacity Vietnamese institutional context.
Safeguards. The TBS operation did not trigger any of the Bank's Safeguard Policies. Still, since
it focused on disadvantaged areas where ethnic minority people resided, and was expected to
enhance the livelihood of indigenous people by improving the access to and quality of primary
education, the project utilized the same basic Indigenous Peoples' Policy Framework (IPPF)
from the PEDC Project. While recognizing that there were no aggregate gender differences in
access and education outcomes in primary schools, preparation identified factors that constrained
boys' and girls' educational participation and aimed to support interventions that would benefit
them.
Risks and mitigation. The TBS operation responded to the Government's priorities, counted on
its full commitment, was framed within the context of the Bank's and donors' assistance
strategies, took into account lessons learned and incorporated input from extensive stakeholder
consultations. Yet, the operation was extremely ambitious. While it focused on the critical
subcomponents of the ENTP and set-up a program of donor-financed technical assistance to
support their implementation, the geographic reach of the operation was country-wide (and by
definition because of its objectives, in more dispersed, less advantaged districts and
communities), and it was to be implemented by central, provincial and district levels of
government besides the schools themselves. The operation's parallel objective of strengthening
the administration of the ENTP was pursued by relying exclusively on existing Socialist
Republic of Vietnam (SRV) systems -- administrative, financial management, procurement,
monitoring and evaluation -- while providing support to improve those systems during
implementation of the project.
Project documentation acknowledges concerns about varying institutional capacity among
districts, a significant inherent risk in the program arising from the overall resource management
context, a risk of obtaining poor value for the money as a result of corrupt practices, and an
overall high procurement risk2 based on findings of previous studies and revisions of SRV's
procurement legislation and the inherent risks related to the highly decentralized nature of
project procurement. In retrospect, perhaps the greatest challenge that the TBS operation faced
was its dispersed and decentralized implementation by multiple levels of agencies of somewhat
limited but varying capacity, within a fiduciary framework that was in itself cause for some
concern. IDA's Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was not explicit about these risks, although
they were subsumed under different risk headings. The risk rating for local level implementation
capacity was "Modest", and fiduciary risks, although mentioned in the Financial Management
(FM) and Procurement Arrangements Annexes, were not brought forward to the Critical Risk
Table, and hence not taken into account in the project's overall risk which was rated "Modest".
Although these risks would by definition have been difficult to mitigate during preparation, it is
not clear that the mitigating measures for Financial Management, for example, which relied on
2
    Risk associated with Government procurement procedures and potential impact.

                                                         9
an audit to mitigate FM risks, were sufficient. The same applied to procurement where, in spite
of the "High" ascertained risk of using Government systems, the only mitigation measures
proposed were to provide guidance on "Procurement Best Practices" and the external audit.
The design of the TBS operation basically followed a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp), in its
purest sense, where there is up-front agreement on a Government program (defined as the five
eligible Sub-components), donor coordination, pooling of funds, and use of Government systems
for financial management, procurement and monitoring and evaluation. However, during
preparation, weaknesses in those very systems that would be used to supervise the project's
implementation had already been identified but under-rated in terms of the risk they would
impose and with insufficient upfront mitigation measures. Instead of requiring a strengthening
of those systems before implementation in order to have them up and running to provide needed
inputs, the design of the TBS included strengthening and capacity building activities to
strengthen the Government's systems under Component 2, to be carried out in parallel with the
implementation of eligible Sub-components. For example, the preparation of FM and
Procurement Manuals, which were eventually completed under Component 2 during
implementation, could have provided more forceful measures to mitigate fiduciary risks. Along
the same line, the completion of an acceptable 2006-2010 Inter-Ministerial Joint Circular before
effectiveness, or at least disbursement, regulating the implementation, roles and responsibilities
under ENTP would have also helped address the extremely complex institutional setting.

2.2    Implementation

Implementation of the TBS operation was impacted enormously by the extremely complex
institutional environment in which it was operating, with varying levels of institutional capacity
and the resulting need for coordination among different institutions and levels of government,
and the resulting difficulties in financial administration and control, that were all the more
important given the operation's design as an instrument of budget support. The lack of adequate
systems for monitoring, evaluation, and control of expenses, as well as institutional capacity to
improve those very systems, made supervision, both by the MoET and the donors all the more
cumbersome.
Institutional Environment. The institutional environment in which the TBS operation was
implemented involved what is basically a matrix structure, undergoing a process of
decentralization that was initiated with the passage of the new Budget Law. At the central level,
MoET, MoF and Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI) had different responsibilities;
MoET's responsibilities were changing and it was expected that its main functions would center
on policy development, and provision of guidelines and framework for the improvement of
education quality as well as of a national quality assurance mechanism to ensure the fulfillment
of national priorities through locally-based activities; MoF had the primary responsibility for
recurrent expenditures (which represent roughly 95% of education expenditures), and for the
design and implementation of the MTEF and Management Information Systems; and MPI had
responsibility for capital expenditures. This structure was paralleled at the provincial levels,
with Departments of Education and Training (DoETs), Departments of Finance (DOFs) and
Departments of Public Investment (DPIs) that report jointly to both their respective ministries at
the central level, and to the Provincial People's Committees (PCs), which have education units
which are involved in the planning and implementation of education. At the district level,
Bureaus of Education and Training (BoETs) report to the respective DoET and the local People's

                                               10
Committee (PC). Representatives of these sub-national units work through Steering Committees
at each level, but the ultimate control of expenditures rests with the PCs, limiting the authority of
MoET over program implementation and reporting. In this already complex basic framework,
things were made even more complicated by the inconsistency in implementation of
responsibilities across provincial samples, which impacted performance and the ability to address
shortcomings in a systemic fashion.
Implications for the implementation of Component 1. Funding for the TBS operation's five
eligible Sub-components was affected in several ways, both allocation and utilization. Central
allocations, based on the ENTP pro-poor allocation formula for eligible Sub-components, are
proposed by the MoET to the MoF, but the latter can adjust the proposal not only in aggregate
but also reallocating among Sub-components. Not all ENTP expenditures are financed from the
central budget, however. Donor funds, which accounted for around 10 percent of ENTP funding,
are transferred to provincial accounts, together with the central budget, where they are then
complemented with provincial and district supplements and community contributions. ENTP
funding is transferred to provinces under seven separate budget sub-headings corresponding to
the ENTP's priorities, of which only five were considered eligible sub-components under the
TBS operation. Once the funds are transferred, the provinces, especially the PCs, have
considerable autonomy over planning, investment and resource allocation across priorities and
districts
Table 1 below summarizes the State Budget allocations across each sub-component over the
2006-2008 period. From 2006 to 2008, school infrastructure (Sub-component 6 of the ENTP),
vocational training (Sub-component 7 ­ not supported by TBS), and textbooks (Sub-component
2 of the ENTP) accounted for the bulk of ENTP funding, followed by support of ethnic minority
groups (Sub-component 5 of the ENTP). However, in the absence of fully reliable actual
expenditures by sub-component and how these compare province-to-province, we cannot say to
what extent the provinces have followed the indicative allocations by sub-component as they
were received from MoET.3 Additionally, there are early indications that over time, as universal
primary education was being achieved, in response to enrolment demand, resources were
allocated to the growing priority sub-sectors of lower and upper secondary education.4
    Table 1: Allocation of State Budget Funding by ENTP Sub-component

                                             2006                 2007                 2008            2006-2008

    ENTP Sub-component                VND bn.       %        VND bn.     %      VND bn.       %       %

    Eradication of Illiteracy and            150      5.1         170     5.0           150     4.3            4.8
    Universalisation of Primary
    Renovation of Curriculum             1,120.5    37.7         563.5   16.7           252     7.2           19.7
    and Textbooks
    Training of Informatics                   78      2.6         150     4.4           168     4.8            4.0
    Engineers *




3
  Field work observations indicated that in most but not all cases provincial allocations were consistent with central
notional allocations.
4
  See also Draft Joint Donors' Final Evaluation Report, October 2009

                                                            11
      Upgrading Teacher Training            275     9.3           400      11.8            80      2.3         7.7
      Institutions and Teacher
      Training
      Support for Education of              330    11.1           500      14.8         540       15.5        13.9
      Ethnic Minorities and
      Disadvantaged Groups
      Infrastructure Development          516.5    17.4         897.0      26.5      1,290.0      37.0        27.5

      Improvement of Vocational             500    16.8           700      20.7        1,000      28.7        22.4
      Training *
       TOTAL                             2,970.0    100        3,380.0      100      3,480.0      100          100

       * = Not included in TBS-EFA
       Source: MoET - DPF


Another issue related to funding and expenditure was a significant under-spending of allocated
budgets (estimated at around 26%), over the implementation period. Table 2 below shows the
figures available for the period January 1, 2007 - March 31, 2008, using the 2008 allocation
including local fund counterpart.5 There is a significant total under spent, with total expenditures
of VND 3,164.8 bn. / 4,100.1 bn. = 87.2%, or a total 22.8% under spent; there was a broadly
similar under spent for the year 2008. Under-spending was the result mostly of: (i) the late
release of budgets to provinces and districts; (ii) complex procedures to agree upon expenditures;
and (iii) rigid unit cost forecasts which would later require complex approval procedures to be
adjusted. 6


Table 2: Under-spending of Funds for ENTP (Jan 1, 2007 ­ March 31, 2008)

                                     Forecast              Actual                               Shortfall
                                                                  as % of                       as % of     as % of
    Sub-Component                    VND.m.        VND.m.          Total          VND.m.        Forecast     Total

    Primary Universalisation &         179,960      130,244               4.1       49,716          27.6          5.3
    illiteracy eradication
    Reform of curriculum &           1,081,813      823,790              26.0      258,023          23.9        27.6
    textbooks
    Training of Informatics
                                       211,855      152,291               4.8       59,564          28.1          6.4
    engineers*



5
  This explains the higher budget in relation to the table above
6
  However, it appears that this situation is common in Vietnam and that the sums unspent will be carried forward to
future years and will still be used for purposes specific to ENTP. In this sense, it can be argued that donor funding
towards elements of Component I will continue, at least into 2009.




                                                          12
  Improvement of pedagogical
  colleges and teacher               315,716      245,978      7.8    69,738     22.1          7.5
  training
  Strengthening Education in         440,899      354,528     11.2    86,371     19.6          9.2
  mountainous areas
  Improvement of school            1,170,026      965,854     30.5   204,172     17.5         21.8
  infrastructure
  Improvement of vocational          699,814      492,153     15.6   207,661     29.7         22.2
  training*
  TOTAL                            4,100,084    3,164,838    100.0   935,246     22.8        100.0
  * = Not included in TBS-EFA
Source: External Audit Report, Deloitte Vietnam, 2008

Implications for the implementation of Component 2. The extremely complex institutional
environment in which the TBS was implemented, the design of the operation's institutional
arrangements which involved coordination and implementation by the existing structure of the
MoET, MoET's limited capacity to implement a program of this magnitude while trying to
strengthen cross-cutting systems that required inter-Ministerial coordination and that were
required to provide input and structure to and evaluation of the program              all stretched
MoET's capacities, and required an extraordinary effort on the part of the donors to keep the
operation on track. In this context, implementation of the institutional strengthening activities
under Component 2 suffered important delays ­ made worse by differences of opinion among
donors as to the intensity of supervision and Technical Assistance (TA) to be provided in a
context where country systems applied, to the point that donors were still discussing the work
plan of Component 2 late during implementation. Financial reporting by the provinces, which
differed substantially in term of institutional capacity, was invariably delayed, yet the project's
FM Manual was only finalized in March 2009. Understandably, problems with external
financial audits became a central theme in donors' supervision efforts (see Section 2.4).


Implications for donors' supervision, working arrangements and disbursement decisions. Donor
supervision involved a broad framework of Joint Annual Review (JAR) and Joint Semi-Annual
Reviews (JSAR); the JARs were scheduled around September of each year, and JSARS around
April. There was an agreed process of rotating responsibility among donors (from now on
defined as TBS partners) for taking the lead in formally inter-acting with the Government to
reduce transaction costs for both Government and donors and ensure alignment of views and
approaches within the program. In the second stage of program implementation (and up to June
30, 2009), when a more "hands-on" approach was finally determined to be necessary to address
the program's complexities, TBS partners and relevant Government' counterparts also organized
themselves in two working groups (on financial management and procurement, and education
quality and standards) to tackle basic implementation issues, but also to try to bring the technical
dialogue forward, in these two areas.
Scheduled annual disbursements in respect of Component 1 were to take place after each JAR.
Yet, invariably TBS partners would have to delay disbursements because of the delays in
submission of important documents. These delays together with the need to focus on basic
implementation issues as opposed to broader strategic themes affected the program and placed

                                                        13
added responsibilities on the donors for follow-up (see above regarding the strengthened working
arrangements). The 2006 disbursement was delayed pending receipt of: (i) Procurement Audit
and Financial Assessment Reports; and (ii) 2007 Work Plans and Budget for ENTP Support
(Component 1) and ENTP Capacity Building (Component 2). The 2007 disbursement was
delayed pending receipt of: (i) acceptable finalization of the financial statement audit for 2006
(which highlighted persistent problems in relation to monitoring and oversight of allocation,
execution and outputs by the decentralized system and lack of response to the previous year's
audit report); (ii) a time-bound action plan for addressing critical financial management issues
adopted by MoET and State Treasury; and (iii) a 2008 work plan for Component 2 finalized and
agreed by all the partners. Finally, the 2008 disbursement was delayed pending receipt of: (i) a
report on the budget allocation to the ENTP disaggregated by sub-components and provinces for
the 2009 fiscal year, including an overview of the allocation principles and evidence of
dissemination to provinces; (ii) management responses to procurement and financial
management audits, including action to be taken in response to findings, etc, (iii) report and
update to the 2007-developed FM Action Plan; (iv) 2008 progress and financial reports for
Component 2; and (v) a refined and prioritized Project Implementation Document for 2009-2010
Component 27, with clear implementation arrangements. In spite of these delays, however, pro-
active donors' management succeeded in at least obtaining all the needed documentation and
completing the project on schedule.

2.3       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. SRV was to provide information on implementation progress and impact of NTP-
funded activities at different levels of Government based on available databases. Funds were to
be controlled, accounted for and reported on using the Government's own financial systems.
Key outcome and results indicators were defined to monitor the project's progress towards its
objectives, and a baseline established during preparation. Expected targets to be achieved by
completion were not set, however, for two main reasons. First, the fully decentralized nature of
the program allowed provinces full discretion on how to allocate funds across sub-components
(with the exception of Sub-component 2 on curriculum renovation) and districts, subject to
spending eligibility. As a result, fixing ex-ante targets was very difficult. The second reason
was related to the fact that the ENTP was an existing Government program to which donors'
financial contributions would represent only about 10 percent of the overall budget, making it
difficult to have enough leverage to "impose" targets on the overall program. An agreement was
reached to aim for an overall improvement in all indicators. Two exceptions to this rule were the
agreements ­ which were however not put up-front in the results framework ­ that it "was
expected that ODA financing will provide additional support to cover approximately one-third of
the shortfall in FSQL deficiencies in primary schools" and that the "Government has made a
commitment that yearly central State budget counterpart financing for the ENTP will increase
approximately 10 percent, using 2005 as a baseline level". Some targets, more in qualitative
terms, were also fixed for some policy measures contained in the Program's Policy Matrix,
which represented another section of the M&E framework aimed at monitoring broader policy
and institutional improvements related to ENTP. Finally, since the TBS supported eligible sub-

7
    Generally described by its MoET title "TBS-II ­ EFA Work Plan 2009-2010".



                                                       14
components of an ongoing program, another complication was that the outcomes and results
were defined for the country as a whole, making it difficult to attribute results solely to the
support from this operation.
Improvements in education quality and service delivery were to be captured through annual
FSQL district audits undertaken every year since 2004/2005 in the whole country. An FSQL
Input Index (FII) was developed to provide a numerical summary score against which yearly
progress could be measured for each school, district, province or groups therein could be
measures. The FII consists of five sub-components with 29 indicators relating to school quality
covering the following categories (and respective weights, which total 100): (i) school
organization and management (26); (ii) teaching staff (27); (iii) infrastructure, teaching and
learning equipment (25); (iv) implementation of education socialization (7); and (v) education
activities and quality (15). The district audits were also providing information on education
outcomes such as enrollment and completion rates. The results framework had all outcomes and
outputs expressed as national average values, to measure improvements in the quality of basic
education overall (as written in the PDO). It was designed also under the assumption that any
further improvement in, say, primary enrollment, completion and FSQL indicators, would most
likely benefit the poorest areas and disadvantaged groups (other objective of the ENTP program)
because of the already high values of some of the primary outcome indicators (the last 10 percent
not completing primary would necessarily come from disadvantaged groups), and the very clear
pro-poor focus of FSQL. Further disaggregations by disadvantaged groups of some of the
indicators were however advised when needed.
Districts were to prepare annual reports specifying progress towards ENTP outcomes and
outputs. Provinces would then compile these and prepare annual summaries of ENTP
implementation. Technical assistance to support local and national capacity building for
monitoring and evaluation of ENTPs was provided under Component 2. The project was also
designed to promote local monitoring by social organizations, such as parent-teacher
associations.
M&E Implementation. Thanks to the continuity and relative reliability (with some exceptions8)
of the District FSQL census data ­ supported by the PEDC Project ­ as well as the familiarity of
most districts and provinces with this dataset, outcome and output indicators were generally
regularly updated, becoming routinely used as monitoring tools. However, in many instances, in
part because of the project's decentralized institutional set-up (which required keeping track with
64 provinces), there were delays in reporting on the results framework. This was in part
mitigated by the consolidation at the national level undertaken by the team in charge of the
FSQL Audits in the PEDC Project. Reporting was more problematic for sub-components'
specific outputs and, in particular, financial reporting (see below). A limitation of M&E in
Vietnam which could not yet be fully solved during implementation was the integration of the
District FSQL census data within the broader MoET EMIS to setup a fully functioning,
consistent and sustainable M&E framework for all education levels. While this was very much
related to unclear signals received from the MoET's management and divisions across existing
projects dealing with data collection, this was also the result of the delays in procuring the
technical assistance and capacity building activities that would strengthen the MoET's M&E
capacity under Component 2 and help set-up an integrated M&E framework. As shown below,
recent progress was however made towards finally achieving integration.


8
    The adequate measurement of the net enrollment rate was an issue for a long time.

                                                          15
M&E Utilization. A comprehensive integrated education management information system
applicable to all levels of the education system would be necessary in order to make sound
education management decision based on facts. Currently FSQL is the only system through
which nationwide data is collected; however, it is only applied for primary education and its
sustainability may be at stake after the end of PEDC.9 The MoET's current EMIS needs
improvement and is currently supported by a Delegation of the European Commission (EC)
project.10 An action plan for the achievement of a comprehensive integrated EMIS,
incorporating the most critical elements of the District FSQL audit, is under development
improving prospects for good M&E in the future. At the same time the importance of the issue
was recognized by the setting up of an 18 member, high level, inter-departmental EMIS
committee approved by the Minister. While a good integrated M&E system is a pre-condition
for utilization, currently, MoET does not yet necessarily use the education data collected for its
decision making planning. This will require further capacity building on how to translate data
into management decisions, to be supported under Component 2 and Support to Renovation of
Education Management (SREM), among other initiatives.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

History of fiduciary compliance and audits. Fiduciary compliance was the weakest area of the
TBS operation. This should not have come as a surprise given that the funding mechanism relied
exclusively on Government systems, which had been identified from the outset to present issues
that needed strengthening, and especially in view of the institutionally complex environment in
which the operation was to be implemented. It was also the result, in part, of a lack of
preparedness of the operation, especially with respect to its fiduciary aspects, at approval, where
risks were generally either under-estimated11 or insufficiently addressed up-front, putting a lot of
pressure during implementation. As an example, the summary of the March 2006 semi-annual
review by the TBS partners mentions: "TBS Partners are currently working on draft Terms of
Reference (TOR) for the internal audit......Audits will be conducted [by] an independent
auditing firm chosen through competitive bidding......The initial audit will be conducted in 2006
in order to track the use of government funds and to build up the capacity of the Government of
Vietnam [Socialist Republic of Vietnam]". Not surprisingly, the first disbursement of funds was
delayed pending, inter alia, the submission of procurement audit and financial assessment
reports. When eventually submitted, these reports were considered to be of "low quality" and
apparently steps were taken to ensure higher quality of the second year audits. Finally, delays in
the implementation of Component 2, as well as an initial "hands-off" donors' approach in
supervision, also admittedly did not help in fostering early improvements in fiduciary aspects.


The second financial management audit was considered of satisfactory quality, but its findings
pointed to "significant weaknesses in the financial management of ENTP with weak control and

9
   Although the new primary education project ­ SEQAP- may be able to continue financing and implementing the
survey at least temporarily.
10
   The SREM project.
11
    Overall financial management control risk was for instance considered to be only "moderate", including
"moderate" for reporting and monitoring. Or, yet, following a DFID assessment, procurement risks associated with
project design were only considered "moderate".

                                                      16
accounting practices and no certainty that the funds are being used for the intended purposes".12
This is in sharp contrast with a control risk for ENTP considered to be only "modest" one year
before and/or shows that the mitigation measures recommended to address the control risk at
approval, which were fundamentally already existing supposedly "positive" characteristics of the
Government's financial system, improvements to be made through the 2006-2010 Joint Circular
yet to be prepared, measures outside the direct control of TBS, or the audit, were insufficient. As
a result of the identified weaknesses, the independent auditors were unable to express an opinion
on the 2006 financial statements of the ENTP. The second procurement audit was also of
satisfactory quality, but "showed some weaknesses in the compliance of the new procurement
law and poor response of the government to the outcomes of the previous audit, calling for the
communication of the procurement finding to all concerned agencies and for a detailed action
plan to address them". Again, this was not entirely surprising given the deficiencies already
identified in the Government's procurement system and practices and the lack of adequate
mitigation measures, although admittedly more effort could have been put from all sides to
disseminate procurement best practices. Both Financial Management and Procurement ratings of
the Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) had been reduced to Moderately
Unsatisfactory (MU) by January 2008.


The joint semi-annual review of April 2008 highlighted financial management as a "critical
concern with limited evidence of progress against the Financial Management Action Plan
developed in response to the 2007 September Annual Review findings". The review
recommended actions to: (i) prepare for the execution of financial statement and procurement
audits; (ii) finalize a complete 2007 Financial Management Technical Review including an in-
depth analysis of financial performance of ENTP during 2007 and its main determinants; (iii)
finalize Operational Manuals for Financial Management and Procurement; and (iv) adjust the
TBS work plan to include clear mobilization of technical assistance for financial management.
The review's aide-memoire noted: "Financial management and, to a lesser extent, procurement
remain a cause of concern. There is limited progress in achieving timely, accurate and usable
Financial Monitoring Reports.....Current progress is hampered by systemic financial
management obstacles; however, there is limited evidence of MoET and inter-ministerial activity
to support financial management planning and preparation activities at the central and sub-
national levels....". Bank ISR ratings for Financial Management and Procurement continued to
be rated MU.


The 2007 Financial Management Technical Review (FMTR)13 took place just before the 2008
JAR and highlighted some useful findings with respective recommendations. Main findings
included improvements in accounting and use of sub-codes, and much better planning and
coordination of the preparation of the financial statements and audit of Fiscal Year (FY) 2007,
but still very clear weaknesses in reconciliation and financial reporting, together with inadequate
FM staffing at the central level. While there was some limited improvement in some areas, the
persistent weaknesses in others were again outlining both initial serious systemic deficiencies of
the ENTP FM system, such as a lack of clear responsibilities at the central, provincial and district
12
     Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) No. 4 dated January 2, 2008.
13
     The results were summarized in Annex 1 of the September 2008 joint annual review.

                                                         17
level for reconciliations, financial reports preparation and consolidation, including the use of a
double reporting channel (through Treasury and MoET) using different financial report formats
and generating inconsistent results, and a persistent lack of action from the Government in
tackling some of the identified issues, including a continuous underestimation of the needs for
FM staff and lack of action on the audit findings in spite of reiterated insistence on these points
by the TBS donors. Several specific recommendations came out of the FMTR. Some of the
main and most general ones are reported in Box 1 below.




Box 1: Main Recommendations of the 2008 FMTR

   ·   Specify and clarify responsibilities in reconciliations and reporting
   ·   Implement regular follow up and assistance by the MoET central level to provinces and lower levels that
       have not submitted either adequate, reliable financial reports or late reports or no reports
   ·   Align the format of the financial reports to reduce and if possible eliminate multiple reporting
       requirements and finalize the format of the FMRs
   ·   Decide whether to continue to develop MoET's financial reporting systems and capacity or to move
       towards reliance on the Treasury system for the financial reporting
   ·   Develop and implement training programs on financial reporting
   ·   Finalize and issue Joint circular and FM Manual to support all of the above
   ·   Ensure FM Manual provides simple, concise and comprehensive guidelines on the FM requirements and
       support it with relevant training
   ·   Develop and implement a longer term plan for FM staff in the MoET for ENTP FM
   ·   Disseminate audit report findings throughout MoET and ST as one method of improving awareness of FM
       weaknesses and ways to improve
   ·   Provide regular progress reports on Agreed Action Plans needs to be provided by MoET

Source: FMTR 2008

Many of the findings of the FMTR were confirmed by the 2007 financial statement audit report.
The auditor's report demonstrated an improved process for facilitating the 2007 Financial
Statement Audit and allowed for a qualified opinion, on the basis of financial reports from State
Treasury rather than from the implementing agencies. This was a marked improvement upon the
no opinion of 2006. The qualified opinion was based mostly on the fact that the scope of the
audit was limited (the sample too small) and that auditors were not provided with all of the
needed supporting documents in those provinces they visited (representing less than 0.5% of
supporting documentation). The auditors also noted significant delays and inaccuracies in
reporting disbursements on the part of the State Treasury (incorrect coding), but were able to
report that 98% of the ENTP expenditure were used correctly, with the remaining 2% applied to
other categories of expenditure which the auditors considered ineligible (but which did not
constitute misuse of funds). Similar to the FM Audits, there was progress in MoET's preparation


                                                     18
and management of the 2007 procurement audit, and this was acknowledged as welcomed
improvement over the management of the past audits. However, the audit found a significant
proportion of non-compliant contracts of which 19 percent with medium-to-high risk and repeats
the recommendations of previous reports as it finds no evidence of follow up of the MoET on the
main audit findings, including sharing the audit findings in full with those provinces audited and
provide a summary to all other provinces for their understanding. In order not to lose the
momentum of the FMTR and of somewhat more encouraging but still challenging 2007 audits,
the joint financial management-procurement working group was also established at this point
under the leadership of the World Bank as focal point for 2008/2009.

By early 2009, there had been some improvement in fiduciary aspects: the fiduciary manuals had
been completed, audit findings of 2006-2007 were shared with provinces and districts, the Joint
Circular was officially issued addressing most (although not all) of the financial management
weaknesses (including responsibilities in financial reporting and an improved Financial
Management Review (FMR) format), provincial training workshops were being carried out on
the manuals, Joint Circular and audit findings, and the work plan for the 2008 financial statement
and procurement audits had been completed. On this basis, the Bank's ISR rating for Financial
Management was upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory in May 2009.

As expected, however, the effects of these positive developments could not yet be seen on the
2008 financial and procurement audits, of which the draft reports both showed persistent
problems, including instances of non-compliance with the country procurement law and lack of
follow-up on procurement "best-practices" (procurement audit) and "mis-statements" in the
financial statements (financial statement audit). In particular, while some improvements such as
a significant decrease in ineligible disbursements (e.g., site clearance before construction work)
have been noted, the draft audit financial statement report contained a qualification where the
misstatement of about 4 percent of expenditure was noted during the audit of 19/63 provinces of
the program which was considered as material. Nevertheless, further efforts from State Treasury
have been noted when the Provincial State Treasuries have taken corrective action to improve the
reliance of the disbursement reports used by the Program Management as their financial
statements; and mis-statements in the financial statements have been adjusted and recognized as
reasonable by the auditors. As a result the auditors gave a qualified opinion of the 2008 financial
statements.14

It is to be expected that the improvements of early 2009 have positively reflected on the 2009
financial management and procurement processes, but, in spite of some evident steps in the right
direction, the fiduciary record of the program by closing remains nonetheless generally weak.
The qualifications in the anticipated auditor's report need to be taken seriously by donors and
Government. They indicate that while relying on the Government system for the ENTP program
was probably too much of an under-estimated risk at preparation, in particular given the
insufficient mitigation measures, the Government was also slow in acting on the financial
management recommendations. Similarly, while the risks of following the Government's
procurement procedures have probably been under-estimated at preparation given the non
compliance of the country law with World Bank's best practices, MoET has been overall too

14
  The opinion was only "qualified" because the auditors were not able to perform additional audit procedures to
ensure that all material mis-statements (if any) in non-audited provinces were detected and adjusted.

                                                        19
slow in taking action, resulting in several actions being only implemented in 2009 and some
actions having not yet been implemented. Sustained effort, through Component 2, to improve
FM and procurement processes needs to continue (starting with the on-going workshops on the
2008 audit findings), including continuing with the audits.15

Safeguards. None of the Bank's Safeguard Policies applied to the TBS operation, although it did
focus on areas related to ethnic minorities under Component 2 (the Study on Ethnic Minorities)
and through financing of sub-components in less advantaged areas, where the concentration of
ethnic minorities is higher. The main reason for not triggering this safeguard advanced at the
time was that the project was expected to enhance the livelihood of indigenous people by
improving the access to and quality of primary education without expected negative
consequences. The Bank's Environmental Assessment Policy was also not triggered, under the
understanding that ENTP sub-components would largely focus on school renovation and
rehabilitation and that new classroom construction would occur within the existing school
premises.

2.5     Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

Despite continued difficulties in implementation in view of weak implementation capacity
combined with a complex institutional reality, prospects for continued emphasis and focus on the
ENTP are very good.

ENTP as an on-going Government program. First and foremost, the ENTP is an ongoing
government program which reflects continuing national priorities and which uses government
systems for implementation. These government systems have been strengthened and will
continue to improve with the continuous implementation of Component 2. A Joint Circular
Governing the Management and Utilization of ENTP Funds from 2011 to 2015 is in its initial
stages of development, building on the 2006-2010 Joint Circular, to guide the future
implementation of the program.16 In the meantime, the government through a Decision of the
Prime Minister has approved an extension of the targeted program through 2010 with the
following objectives: (i) universalisation of lower secondary education nationwide by 2010; (ii)
increase the proportion of the trained labor force to 40% of the total labor force by 2010; and (iii)
improve access to and equity in education in remote areas, ethnic minorities and difficulty-hit
areas. Reflecting achievements to date, the focus is shifting a bit towards lower secondary, yet
the objectives that were supported by the project remain relevant, and count on the government's
support as reflected in the ENTP's approved budget allocation. For 2010, the government has
allocated VND 4,600 billion to the ENTP's seven sub-components. The largest increases have
been allocated to Sub-components 2 (Renovation of Curriculum and Textbooks), 4 (Training of


15
   The audits should ideally include some of the provinces and institutions which had been audited in previous years
in order to find out if there have been improvements in procurement and financial management practice.

16
   As detailed in the Summary of the Borrower Completion Report, the new circular confirms support to the existing
ENTP sub-components while broadening the scope of some of them (such as the sub-component on ethnic
minorities to include broader geographical coverage and new schools) and adding some new sub-components
(including universalization of pre-school coverage).

                                                        20
Teachers, Lecturers and Education Managers), and 5 (Support to the Education in Mountainous
Areas, Ethnic Minorities and Disadvantaged Regions).

Capacity building component. Second, implementation of technical assistance for institutional
strengthening under the DFID and Canada funded Component 2 will continue until December
31, 2010. During the April 2009 Joint Semi-Annual Review of the TBS, the government and
donors have agreed upon a very detailed Work Plan 2009-2010 to guide the priorities and
implementation of Component 2 over the final year of implementation. The priorities and work
program are described in Section 3.2.




                                             21
Table 3: Allocation of ENTP State Budget by Sub-Components ­ 2006-2010

                                                                                                  Total budget
        No.                                  ENTP Sub-Components                                  07/QD-TTg                Allocated budget by years
                                                                                                  2006-2010
                                                                                                 Central budget   2006         2007        2008         2009


                                                                                                                                                                   2010 plan


                                                 TOTAL FUNDS                                          18,500.00 2,970.00      3,380.00    3,480.00     4,000.00    4,600.00


                                                                                                            660       150          170         150          130           55


         1    Universal lower secondary education/consolidation of universal primary education


         2    Renovation of curricula, textbooks and teaching materials                                2,530.00   1,120.50        563.5        252          230          364
                                                                                                            910          78        150         168          220          294
         3    IT human resources training and IT application to schools
         4    Training of teachers, lecturers and education managers                                        600          80        100            80        110          230
                                                                                                       2,900.00       330          500         540         652.3        847.7
         5    Education in mountainous areas, ethnic minorities and disadvantaged regions
         6    Upgrading infrastructure for schools                                                     6,400.00     711.5      1,196.50    1,290.00     1,457.70     1,709.30
         7    Capacity building for vocational training                                                4,500.00       500          700     1,000.00     1,200.00     1,100.00

       Source: MoET-DPF

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the TBS operation continue to be relevant to Vietnam's current development
priorities. Vietnam has largely achieved universal primary education and is on track to reach its
other Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of eliminating gender inequality in primary
education by 2015. The operation is fully consistent with the SRV's draft Education
Development Strategic Plan for 2010-2020 and its ENTP which both continue to emphasize: (i)
pursuing eradication of illiteracy and universalizing primary school enrolment; (ii) universalizing
lower secondary enrolment; (iii) continuing support for education development; (iv) innovating
curriculum, textbooks and teaching materials; and (v) organizing training and other activities to
improve teachers' and administrators' capacity. The TBS operation also continues to be relevant
to the SRV's ongoing decentralization, public sector reform and strengthening and institutional
capacity building objectives.
The objectives of the TBS operation are also consistent with the Bank's current country and
sector assistance objectives, including the updated Country Partnership Strategy which puts
emphasis on FSQL to improve the governance of the education sector and achieve equity targets,
while renewing commitment to quality education for all in Vietnam.
The TBS operation's design and implementation continue to be relevant. While the operation
addressed, and continue to address, important SRV sector priorities, it tackled, through a
somewhat ambitious mechanism and, therefore, with slower than expected results, key issues
that are still very pertinent to the education sector: strengthening and capacity building for
strategic planning, management, monitoring and implementation within a decentralized
framework, with the objective of achieving higher quality and equity in basic education. As
mentioned in Section 2.2, implementation of the TBS operation was impacted enormously by the
extremely complex institutional environment in which it was operating, with varying levels of

                                                                                     22
institutional capacity and the resulting need for coordination among different institutions and
levels of government, and the resulting difficulties in financial administration and control, that
were all the more important given the operation's design as an instrument of budget support.
The lack of adequate systems for monitoring, evaluation, and control of expenses, as well as
institutional capacity to improve those very systems, made supervision, both by the MoET and
the donors all the more cumbersome. As a result, the Bank and other donors correctly adjusted
and intensified the focus of their supervision efforts to prioritize the development of the systems
needed to strengthen the Government's implementation capacity for the ENTP.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Outcome indicators.      Although there was some fluctuation during the operation's
implementation period, the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (SRV) achieved generally good
progress towards educational outcomes (Table 4).

Access to and quality of primary education improved from 2003/2004 (original baseline in
Project Appraisal Document or PAD) and 2004/2005 (updated baseline in first ISR) to
2007/2008 and the recently available 2008/2009 according to the vast majority of indicators.
Gross intake in Grade 1 increased from 90.1 percent at the baseline in 2003/2004 to about 107
percent in 2009, net primary enrolment increased from 83 percent to 100 percent according to
DFA data (which however had probably not adequately measured this indicator up to 2007 given
issues in the assessment of the school age population) and from 94 percent to 96 percent (2008
data) according to EMIS data, completion rates increased from 92.3 percent in 2003/2004 to 98.2
percent in 2009, and drop-out rates decreased from 3.2 percent to 2.3 percent. Repetition rates,
however, have increased since 2006 after an initial brisk decline. Learning outcomes17
(admittedly slower to move and therefore likely to capture at best only part of the effects of the
interventions at this stage) have also moved in the right direction, with substantial increases in
both math and language. Achievement in Grade 5 language increased substantially with 61.0
percent of students reaching the "independent learner" benchmark in 2007/2008 versus only 51.3
percent in 2001; and achievement in Grade 5 math as well with 86.7 percent of students reaching
the "independent learner" benchmark in 2007/2008 versus 79.9 percent in 2001. Finally, the
share of non-salary spending per student increased significantly in real terms, at least up to 2007,
reflecting more emphasis on quality related inputs. On a mixed note, while the continuous
decrease of the pupil-teacher ratio over the 2003-2009 period may indicate some slight quality
improvement in terms of smaller class sizes and higher interaction between teachers and
students, it is more likely to indicate losses in efficiency resulting in a higher salary burden over
time per student. This decrease was largely the result of a decline in primary-school aged
population which did not translate in fewer teachers because of systemic rigidities.

During the 2005-2008 period, SRV also made progress towards increasing equity in access to
primary education. As could be expected from the already high initial baselines, further
improvements in access and completion were generally pro-poor resulting in a closing gap



17
  Produced from two comparable Grade 5 assessment studies undertaken by MoET in collaboration with the World
Bank, NIES and the University of Melbourne.

                                                     23
between urban and rural areas and Kinh and ethnic minorities in enrollment18, and, more
generally, advantaged and disadvantaged areas in completion (Figures 1 and 2). Gaps between
urban and rural areas also decreased in terms of learning outcomes19 between 2001 and 2007, but
unfortunately increased somewhat between Kinh and ethnic minorities (Figure 3). A likely
explanation at this stage for this slightly increasing gap is that the higher access for ethnic
minorities to primary education has likely translated into even more disadvantaged ethnic
minority groups being enrolled with a negative reflection on learning outcomes. But effects on
learning outcomes take longer to be seen and it is likely that the pro-poor improvements in FSQL
indicators over the project life will translate into decreasing gaps in learning outcomes between
advantaged and disadvantaged groups in the future. Notwithstanding this point, SRV would be
well advised to put renewed emphasis on the quality of education for ethnic minorities. New
strategies to address ethnic minority issues20 and new operations such as School Education
Quality Assurance Project (SEQAP), introducing full-day schooling for ethnic minorities, go into
that direction.


While these aggregate data shows that SRV has made generally good progress towards its
desired outcomes, it needs to be clear that it is not possible to attribute this progress solely to the
ENTP or TBS through ENTP, especially in view of the relatively minor financing shares
involved and the presence of other donor financed projects.

Table 4: TBS for Education NTP Outcome and Results Indicators




18
   While the overall NER was over-estimated in 2005/2006 according to DFA, relative values across groups are to
be taken as accurate (in other words, the bias was uniformly distributed across groups). EMIS calculations also
confirm closing gaps.
19
   Calculated in terms of standardized raw scores.
20
   As documented in the recent status report on Component 2 supported ethnic minority development programs
(MoET, 2009).

                                                      24
Outcome Indicators:       Baseline           Updated       Year1     Year2        Year3         Year4
                          09/03-06/04        Baseline      09/05-    09/06-    09/07-06/08   06/08-06/09
                          (a) (PAD)        09/04-06/05     06/06     06/07
                                            (ISR) (a)
Gross Intake Grade 1          90.1             100          108.0     104.6      105.0         106.9
Net Primary                   83.0             100           100       100       99.0           100
Enrolment (b) DFA
Net Primary                   94.4            95.0          95.2      96.0        96.1          NA
Enrolment (c)
Dropout (Grade 1)              3.2             3.0           2.9       3.2         2.0           2.3
Repetition (Grade 1)           2.7             2.3           1.9       2.0         3.4           3.6
Completion (d)                92.3            89.0          96.8      94.8        97.1          98.2
Achievement in Grade          79.9                                                86.7
5 Math (e)
Achievement in Grade          51.3                                                61.0
5 Language (e)
Pupil-Teacher Ratio           23.1            22.0          21.5      21.0        20.5          19.4
Yearly Per-Student           66,000           NA           107,647   136,080      NA            NA
Spending on Non-
Salary Items (in VND,
2003)
Results Indicators:
Average District              62.1            65.0          67.8      68.9        69.6          70.9
FSQL Score
No. and % Schools             2,443           NA           2,820     3,102        NA           3,804
that Score >80 in             16%                          18.1%     19.9%                     24%
FSQL Index
No. and % Schools              NA            11,081        12,359    12,759      13,306        14,124
that Score >60 in                             71%           79%       82%         85%           90%
FSQL Index (f)
No. and % of                228,849         237,738        256,692   246,205    166,236       222,303
Teachers (all sites) to      64%             66%            74%       71%        52%           64%
have Received 5 or
more Days on In-
Service Training
FSQL
No. and % of Grades         123,228         127,095        230,515   239,584    238,146       235,739
to Have Teaching             75%             81%            83%       87%        89%           88%
Aids for Reading
FSQL
No. and % of Schools          9,216          11,248        12,118    13,710      16,308        18129
(all sites) to have           23%             28%           31%       35%         43%           48%
Potable Water FSQL

No. and % of                 73,948         110,137        127,849   202,689    210,161       217,113
Classrooms (all sites)        34%            49%            58%       91%        94%           96%
to have a Good
Blackboard FSQL
No. and % of                140,226        136,904         143,526   150,711    155,996       163,501
Classrooms (all sites)       65%              61%           65%       68%        70%           73%
to have Achieved
School Construction
FSQL
Disaggregated                See Table
expenditure levels by     1/Figure 6 for
NTP sub-projects and by   disaggregation
province (g)
                                                      25
                            across sub-
                              projects
Disaggregated funding
sources by province (g)
   Source: DFA data, various years, unless otherwise indicated; Notes: in Italic, estimates; (a) Except for grade 5 achievement,
   where baseline is for 2001; (b) NER according to DFA data. Issues with the calculation of the primary school age population
   led to over-estimation of the indicator in 2004, 2005 and 2006; (c) NER according to EMIS data. This recent re-calculation
   using EMIS data seems closer to reality, although probably somewhat under-estimated for 2007/08; (d) Primary completion
   rate of the 14 years old; (e) Independent learner benchmark according to Grade 5 studies (MoET-NIES-Melbourne ­World
   Bank); (f) Not one of the original indicators, only added for information; (g) Disaggregation across provinces has been
   reported in the FMRs and financial statements.




Figure 1: Changes in NER across Groups                          Figure 2: Changes in Completion across Groups




                                                                                                                                   Source:
Source: DFA                                                     DFA


                           Figure 3: Changes in Grade 5 Achievement across Groups




                                  Source: MoET-NIES

Component 1: Achievement of FSQL Standards through TBS to the Education NTP

From outcome to result indicators. While the effects of Component 1 are to be measured
through both the outcome and results indicators, the main primary objective of this component
was to improve FSQL indicators, and through FSQL the outcome indicators. Aggregate data
taken from the District FSQL Audit (DFA) also reveal good progress in the FSQL Input Index
(FII) and the individual FSQL indicators between 2003/2004 or 2004/2005 and 2008/2009
(Table 4). In particular, the FII increased from 62 to 71 percent, the proportion of schools
achieving a FII of more than 80 percent from 16 to 24 percent and the proportion of schools
achieving a FII of more than 60 percent from 71 to 90 percent. Teacher training (except in the
last two years), availability of teaching materials and quality of the infrastructure all improved
substantially over the life of the project, showing an impact of the ENTP sub-components (with

                                                             26
the limitation of specific attribution). An increase in 9 percentage points in the FII over the life
of the project represents between 50 and 24 percent of the FSQL shortfall depending on the FII
upper threshold (80 to 100 percent). Taking the Government definition of an FII>80 as standard
for achieving FSQL (Decision 55), the broad target of covering approximately one-third of the
shortfall in FSQL deficiencies in primary schools can be said to have been achieved. However,
this target was achieved focusing more on the schools further away from the 80 standard than on
the ones closer to it, as shown by a stronger increase in the proportion of schools achieving a FII
of more than 60 percent (see Figure 4 for the evolution on the FII across schools between 2005
and 2008). Along this line, the data show greater progress in the FII achieved among
disadvantaged districts and the poorest district quintile (Figure 5 and Table 5). Again, as this is
aggregate data, by district classification, it is not possible to attribute all of the improvements to
the ENTP or TBS through ENTP (all the more as disadvantaged districts are also included in
PEDC).
     Figure 4: Distribution of FII across Schools Nationwide from 2005 to 2008
          S tr   ng
        3500
        3000           2005
        2500           2006
                       2007
        2000
                       2008
        1500
        1000
         500
            0                                                                               i m FII
                                                                                        0
            25
                 30
                      35
                           40
                                45
                                     50
                                          55
                                               60
                                                    65
                                                         70
                                                              75
                                                                   80
                                                                        85
                                                                             90
                                                                                  95
                                                                                       10




 Source: MoET, Analysis of DFA Data in the School Year 2007-2008



                 Figure 5: FII and Poverty Levels from 2005 to 2008




                                                          27
     75,0



     70,0



     65,0



                                                                                                  FII (2005)
     60,0
                                                                                                  FII (2006)
                                                                                                  FII (2007)
     55,0                                                                                         FII (2008)


     50,0
                               W
               1 N h óm giàu




                                                    R ichest Q uin tile




                                                                            3 N h ó m tru n g




                                                                                                          4 N h óm n gh èo




                                                                                                                                      5 N h óm n gh èo
                               V
                                                                             bìn h / M id d le                                                            W
                                                       2 N h óm giàu




                               H                                                                                                                          V
                               Q uin tile




                                                                                                             n h ì/ N ear
                                                                               Q uin tile
                                                                                                                                                          H




                                                                                                              Q u in tile




                                                                                                                                                           Q u in tile
                               K




                                                                                                              Po o rest
                                                         n hì/N ear




                                                                                                                                                          U
                               F
                               L                                                                                                                          R
                               5                                                                                                                          R
                               
                               W                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          W
                               K
                               Q                                                                                                                          K
                                                                                                                                                          Q




     Source: MoET, Analysis of DFA Data in the School Year 2007-2008

            Table 5: FSQL Input Index Nationwide and by Different Groupings21

     Indicator FII                          Number              Number of           FII                  FII                   FII                         FII           Increase
     (FSQL Input                               of                 Primary         (2005)               (2006)                (2007)                      (2008)            of FII
        Index)                              Districts               and                                                                                                   (2005-
                                             (2008)             Secondary                                                                                                 2008)
                                                                  Schools
Nationwide                                  677                 15,610         65.0                   67.8                   68.9                        69.6            4.6
Averagely                                   204                 5,104          66.4                   68.6                   69.4                        69.9            3.5
Disadvantaged
Districts
Disadvantaged                               227                 4,978          57.6                   60.7                   62.4                        63.4            5.8
Districts (*)
Advantaged                                  246                 5,528          71.5                   74.1                   75.1                        75.4            3.9
Districts

Richest                                     133                 2,649          69.1                   72.5                   73.1                        73.4            4.3
Second Richest                              133                 3,112          68.4                   71.2                   71.9                        72.6            4.2
Averagely                                   128                 3,620          66.7                   69.1                   70.6                        71.4            4.7
Advantaged
Second Poorest                              138                 3,432          64.5                   66.9                   68.1                        68.2            3.7
Poorest                                     135                 2,797          59.3                   61.7                   63.3                        64.8            5.5
            Source: MoET, Analysis of DFA Data in the School Year 2007-2008

            (*) Also corresponding to PEDC districts.

21
     Source: MoET, Analysis of DFA Data in the School Year 2007-2008.

                                                                                                 28
From the equity perspective, it is also noticeable that the relative financial weight of the sub-
project on support to ethnic minorities and disadvantaged groups has increased in time and
remains sustained, representing in 2008 the third most important sub-component (see Figure 6).22
However, it is infrastructure development which has increased the most and this is good news
from the perspective of the quality and equity of primary education only if sufficient priority is
maintained on primary and if it is sufficiently well targeted to help address FSQL shortfalls in
construction. The 2010 planned allocations provide continuous emphasis on the education of
disadvantaged groups, with relatively lower increases for infrastructure.




22
     And that does not include a share of sub-component 6 on infrastructure directed to ethnic minorities.

                                                            29
       Figure 6: Evolution in the Share of ENTP Sub-Components over 2006-2008




       Source: Table 1




From outcome and result indicators to outputs. At a more disaggregated level, SRV made good
progress in each of the five TBS financed Sub-components, as shown below and in Annex 2.

·      Sub-component 1: Illiteracy elimination, consolidation of Universal Primary
       Education (UPE) and achievement of Universal Secondary Education

       Illiteracy is not monitored by MoET on national scale but it is deemed to be very low in
       Vietnam. The SRV moved toward universal primary education from 2006 to 2008: Net
       enrollment increased from 94.4 percent to 96.0 percent (or even 100 percent according to
       DFA 2009 data) and completion rates increased from 92.3 percent to 97.1 percent during
       the period (raising further to 98.2 percent in 2009). To help move in this direction, this
       sub-component financed programs to reduce illiteracy, and training of teachers and
       education managers and teaching-learning materials to support universalisation in mostly
       disadvantaged provinces, resulting in a higher proportion of teachers trained and grades
       with learning materials in these provinces. However, the progress in outcome and result
       indicators cannot be attributed to funding from the TBS operation alone since there were
       several other projects aimed at achieving these objectives, and funding from multiple
       sources including provinces, communities and parents.
·      Sub-component 2: Renovation of the curriculum and textbooks/teaching methods


       The primary and secondary education curricula were revised, new textbooks and
       teaching-learning aids conforming to the revised curricula were printed and distributed on
       a large scale (both in replacement of the existing ones and to address the needs of new
       curriculum areas) and in-service training provided. These activities also resulted in a
       higher proportion of teachers trained and grades with updated teaching aids. Textbooks



                                              30
        were distributed free-of-charge to children from poor families.23 This intermediate result
        can be expected to have a significant impact on learning outcomes of children from poor
        families.



·       Sub-component 4: Upgrading infrastructure of Teacher Training Institutions and
        teacher qualifications
        By 2008, nearly all basic education teachers had received pre-service and/or in-service
        training, with the result that 99% of teachers have attained the 9+3 level. There was also
        progress towards raising the level of required teacher qualifications to 12+2: Between
        2004 and 2008, the percentage of primary teachers attaining this level increased from
        71.9 percent to 84.5 percent.24 The sub-component mostly financed pre-service training
        to 12+2 for primary teachers, in-service training for teachers and education managers on
        the new curriculum and textbooks, and infrastructure upgrading for teacher training
        colleges with priority given to disadvantaged provinces, contributing to the improved
        teacher qualifications as well as to the proportion of teachers having received at least 5
        days of in-service training. As also confirmed by the recent field trips, training was
        carried out mostly through a system whereby one teacher received training in an institute
        and then returned to train the other teachers of his/her school. This cascade model is
        generally considered to be a very cost-effective model.
·       Sub-component 5: Support for the education of ethnic minorities and disadvantaged
        regions
        This sub-component of ENTP mostly provided support to the renovation and
        refurbishment of provincial and district boarding schools for ethnic minorities and
        schools in mountainous and disadvantaged areas. This investment has clearly already
        impacted positively school attendance of disadvantaged and minority groups ­ as
        indicated by closing gaps in the NER and even completion rate ­ as well as some of the
        FSQL indicators which are typically lower in disadvantaged areas. However, as was
        mentioned and shown above, more focus needs now to be given to the still very weak
        learning outcomes of ethnic minorities.
·       Sub-component 6: Infrastructure development



        This sub-component of ENTP supported infrastructure improvements through the
        construction, renovation and refurbishment of about 13,367 classrooms, contributing to
        increasing the proportion of FSQL classrooms and schools. However, it needs to be
        noted that a significant and increasing fraction of classrooms has been and is being
        built/refurbished in secondary schools and even higher education institutions, making the
        trend towards post-primary education particularly visible for this sub-component.

23
   The joint evaluation team could verify on its school visits at several provinces that in most of the schools all
pupils had textbooks and used them in class lessons. Enquiring on this issue the teachers, principals and BoET
officials all confirmed that textbooks were provided free of charge to children from poor families.
24
   MoET, DFA Report 2007-08.

                                                        31
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening for ENTP Administration and Implementation

Component 2 was jointly supervised by TBS EFA partners and co-financed by Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) and DFID. Implementation of Component 2
suffered delays from the outset, mostly due to MoET's weak institutional capacity to manage a
large set of activities within an institutionally complex setting, requiring not only inter-
institutional coordination at the central level, but also at the provincial and district levels. The
fact that the TBS was implemented within the mainstream organizational structure ­ by itself a
laudable goal from the institutional sustainability perspective ­ (i.e., without a separate Project
Management Unit) only aggravated the burden on an institutionally weak institution. The delays
in implementation of Component 2 also came to impact MoET's compliance with the donors'
reporting and fiduciary requirements, most of which had counted on progress with
implementation of institutional and capacity building activities and the contracting of technical
assistance to allow for full compliance. The implementation period of Component 2 continues
through December 31, 2010. A detailed Work Plan 2009-2010 will guide the priorities and
implementation of Component 2 over the final year of implementation. Details of this Work
Plan are described later in this section.
Current achievements - from results to output. Despite delays, several activities financed by
Component 2 to date have represented important improvements to the institutional framework
and the systems under which the Education NTP is operating. Annex 2 contains a matrix of
originally expected results by policy theme and focus area, as well as progress to date in
achieving those results (main outputs under each expected result).25 Some of the main notable
Component 2 achievements include:
         ·       Issuance of the MoET-MoF Inter-Ministerial Joint Circular. The Joint Circular
         regulates the purpose, contents, targeting, and budget management of the ENTP (which
         covers all levels of education from kindergarten to higher education). In the absence of
         its prior development, the Joint Circular was prepared by the MoET and MoF, together
         with the TBS partners, during implementation and finally adopted in December 2008.
         Adoption of this Joint Circular, although it entailed a long preparation process, was a
         significant achievement that provides policy, regulatory and managerial guidance and
         direction to the ENTP program.



           ·       Building Capacity for Education Planning (BCEP) Coordination. The integration
           of BCEP with Component 2 of the TBS has been one of the key achievements of the
           technical assistance program. The TBS operation had underestimated the complexities of
           administering and managing ENTP in a decentralized environment given the inter-
           ministerial framework for implementation. A plan to strengthen administration was
           developed in coordination with BCEP and will be rolled out in 2009 planning, public
           financial management, and monitoring and evaluation. BCEP's objective was that of
           strengthening education planning capacity of central and local levels with localized
           education planning software (VANPRO) developed, tested, piloted and used by
           provincial and district planners. All 63 DoETs are using this new instrument to produce

25
     Most of these outputs are closely related to the implementation of Component 2.

                                                          32
           their five year and annual provincial education plans which are used to disaggregate
           planning data by MoET. More importantly, the approach to planning has changed from
           one that was input-oriented to one that is output-oriented. The approach has helped to
           improve effectiveness and efficiency in education planning as well as enhancing
           stakeholder participation in the planning process. As BCEP closed in September 2009,
           TBS under Component 2 will continue its approach by: (i) using the resources of the
           BCEP (staffing, tools, approach and methodology); (ii) transferring coaching to training
           institutions; (iii) institutionalizing the planning tools developed; (iv) continuing support
           to provincial and district planners; and (v) planning for integration of VANPRO with
           other existing databases, and those under development such as EMIS.



           ·       Allocation Formula. To address the lack of transparency in the allocation of the
           ENTP envelope across provinces, Component 2 supported SRV in the development of a
           needs-based pro-poor allocation formula for ENTP, which has now been applied ­ with
           some fine-tuning in time ­ since 2008 and represents another clear achievement. The
           formula's basic principle is a two stage targeting process, through which, in a first stage,
           the envelopes for the two sub-components not yet targeted but with most potential to be
           targeted (sub-components 1 and 4) are allocated to provinces according to the level of
           their FII to make sure provinces with larger FII shortfalls receive more of these sub-
           components; and, in a second stage, specific allocation criteria ­ taking into account
           school-age population, students, teachers and achievement of shortfall in specific FSQL
           indicators ­ are then used to finalize the allocation of each sub-component across
           provinces. The joint donor's assessment confirmed that ENTP budget allocations from
           MoET to DoETs are now broadly targeted to allocate increased resources to the poorer
           provinces, with the less-poor provinces receiving only relatively small allocations26, and,
           indeed, these findings are confirmed by a simple correlation analysis between ENTP
           allocated resources by province and the 2006 provincial FII which shows evidence of a
           increasing negative correlation between the level of the 2006 FII and ENTP allocations
           over the 2006-2008 time period. This result indicates that well targeted ENTP resources
           have in part helped close the FSQL gap illustrated above.



           ·       Operations Manuals. Although late in the process, FM and Procurement Manuals
           applicable to the management and implementation of ENTP were finally prepared and
           rolled out to the provinces through workshops. A draft M&E manual was also prepared
           which will be finalized in January 2010 when additional international M&E technical
           assistance assumes this responsibility.



           ·       Annual Audits. Component 2 financed the cost of the annual TBS financial
           management and procurement audits, and the follow-up, including workshops and
           training in connection with the outcome of those audits. While Bank and donor financing

26
     See Draft Joint Donors' Final Evaluation Report, October 2009.

                                                          33
       contributed only about 10% of the cost of the ENTP, independent financial management
       and procurement audits (and the subsequent follow-up which involved substantial
       capacity building) carried out under the TBS operation have covered the entirety of the
       Program.

       ·       Advances in Institutional Coordination on EMIS. Currently, different projects are
       supporting MoET in data gathering (PEDC) and system development (SREM) but these
       projects will end in 2010. By that time MoET will not have a comprehensive system that
       collects all necessary data required for sound education management. During the last few
       months good progress has been made in the development of the costed EMIS roadmap
       which connects the vision, values and objectives of MoET. A costed strategic action plan
       was attached to the Roadmap. The Roadmap has major strengths such as: (i) it defines
       key roles and responsibilities; (ii) costs scenario for the implementation of a nationwide
       school management information system; and (iii) includes a short term action plan from
       now till 2010 which provides opportunities for revisions and updates of the Roadmap.
       Nevertheless there are still some important challenges that need to be addressed,
       including the need to develop unified standards and indicators and to define a clearer
       legal framework for data and indicator management. Component 2 will continue provide
       support to MoET to refine education indicators, to develop the policy framework for data
       for education management, and to agree on a single, verifiable data source for agreed
       national indicators and a single focal point for the collection and management of data.

Future priorities. Institutional strengthening activities under Component 2 will continue after
the closing date of the TBS operation according to the agreed Work Plan 2009-2010 for the
component. The most recent JAR found that activities under this component were picking up.
However, continuous effort and monitoring of MoET is needed to ensure that all activities of
what is an ambitious work program can be completed in time, including prompt action on
making sure all consultant positions are filled. The following were the priorities identified for
completion during the slightly over one year remaining:


       ·      Improving ENTP Management and Administration. Continued support will be
       provided towards: (i) improved budgeting and resource targeting; (ii) the training
       approach and methodology implemented by the former BCEP team now integrated
       within Component 2; (iii) computerized input and activity monitoring for ENTP; (iv)
       ENTP payment control mechanisms through the State Treasury's Integrated Treasury and
       Budget Management Information System (TABMIS); (v) State Treasury capacity
       building for ENTP in TABMIS at the national level; (vi) a study to finalize ENTP (and
       other NTP) payment control and management mechanisms; (vii) training to provincial
       State Treasuries on ENTP payment control and management mechanisms; and (viii) web-
       based access to ENTP support materials.



       ·      ENTP Capacity Building Strategy. This group of activities would support: (i)
       ENTP leadership and strategy workshops; (ii) provincial and district level capacity
       building through activities to train the trainers and deliver workshops and coaching; (iii)

                                               34
       piloting ENTP short-courses for in-service training on planning, financial management
       and monitoring and evaluation; (iv) capacity building for decentralized medium-term
       planning and projection; (v) improved national and provincial FM procedures by
       strengthening MoET financial management and internal audit; and (vi) monitoring and
       evaluation of the capacity building strategy.



       ·      Improving ENTP Assessment and Evaluation. Support would be provided for: (i)
       improved data collection, management and analysis by MoET's Department of Planning
       and Finance (DPF) Statistics Division; (ii) a school mapping pilot; (iii) national and
       provincial workshops on format, content and utilization of provincial and district results
       monitoring matrix; (iv) provincial monitoring and coaching field visits; and (v) support to
       policy assessment and development, including studies on ethnic minority education and
       development and implementation of the final 2010 and baseline 2015 ENTP evaluation
       instrument.



       ·      Streamlining ENTP Governance. This would support activities to: (i) strengthen
       inter-ministerial coordination through, inter alia, semi-annual steering committee
       meetings; and (ii) develop the 2011-2015 Joint Circular to support a continuation of the
       ENTP through 2015, after assessing implementation of the 2006-2010 ENTP.



       ·       TBS Management and Administration. Component 2 would continue to provide
       support to: (i) the administration of the Secretariat Unit and its periodic reporting
       function; (ii) Annual and Semi-Annual Reviews and Audit; (iii) ENTP external audits;
       and (iv) the TBS Component 2 financial audit.
The Action Plan provides detailed costing by activities within the above five broad categories
and specifies, by individual task, the specific inputs, outputs and timing.

3.3    Efficiency

FSQL as a cost-effective intervention. The support provided under the TBS operation increased
the efficiency of the ENTP. The economic analysis prepared during project preparation had
concluded that "by accelerating the achievement of FSQL, with priority given to schools in the
more disadvantaged localities, we anticipate benefits in terms of internal and external efficiency,
more rapid achievement of SRV universal primary education goals and improved equity on a
household income and geographic basis". Although it is not possible to quantify by precisely
how much the TBS operation "accelerated the achievement of FSQL", it is clear that it did
support a prioritization of disadvantaged districts and the poorest communities and better quality
of service delivery, by supporting the most critical ENTP sub-components, the introduction and
use of FSQL for allocation and monitoring, and the introduction of other important institutional
changes (notably in planning practices). In turn, these improvements were conducive to
achievement of benefits in internal and external efficiency through improved learning outcomes,

                                                35
reduced dropout rates, increased completion rates and transition rates to lower secondary,
improved academic performance in lower secondary as a result of improved learning outcomes
in primary, and higher earnings for those who enter the labor force as a consequence of improved
academic performance overall, all of these with an especially greater impact in disadvantaged
areas. To make this case stronger, a replication of the economic analysis with the newly
available Grade 5 results (see Annex 3) confirms that, after controlling for "family and student
backgrounds and personal characteristics" (which have by far the highest influence on student
achievement in both math and language), the achievement of FSQL is the next most important
factor influencing achievement (and probably the second in terms of cost-effectiveness) after
school head and teacher improved pedagogical practices (admittedly the most cost-effective
intervention) and the adoption of full day schooling (effective but costly).

Donor coordination and transaction costs. There are other efficiency-enhancing measures to
which the project contributed. While donor coordination in support of the program was intense
and structured (therefore requiring important up-front preparation for rather formal Annual and
Semi-Annual Joint Reviews), it most likely reduced the individual transactions costs for the
government of working independently with individual donors on perhaps less coordinated
programs. Despite some initial differences in approach, donor coordination worked well, and
served to present a unified approach in support of an established government program, where
donor funding represented only about 10 percent of the program costs.

Program leverage. The donors' leverage in supporting systemic improvements in the
management and administration of the ENTP which made and is making a positive impact on
the country systems used for implementing this (and other) government programs was high,
especially in comparison with what was this rather small proportional investment on their part.

Decentralization and efficiency. The decentralization supported by the ENTP and further
strengthened by some institutional improvements introduced by TBS (in provincial planning
notably) served to mobilize local resources for the sub-components supported by the program,
and at the same time enhance social efficiency by providing greater "voice" and delegating the
process of determining priorities to provinces, districts, and schools and communities. The draft
Final Evaluation Report concludes that the major role for and significant funding from provincial
level administrations and local communities has been a significant factor in the implementation
of the ENTP.

Efficiencies in output delivery. Among the ENTP Sub-components supported by the TBS
operation, Sub-components 2 (Reform of Curriculum and Textbooks), 4 (Teacher Retraining and
Upgrading Short Courses), 5 (Support for the Education of Ethnic Minorities and Disadvantaged
Regions) and 6 (Improvement of School Infrastructure) were noted27 for either promoting high
efficiency in education or being highly efficient in their delivery. The reform of curriculum and
textbooks was considered to have high efficiency in that the textbooks are targeted directly to
poor children, since textbooks are provided free of charge only to children from poor families
whereas less-poor families need to purchase the textbooks. The carrying out of teacher
retraining and upgrading courses was considered highly efficient, with courses provided on a

27
  Through analysis of secondary data and field-work in several provinces carried out during the donors' external
review.

                                                      36
cascade basis where either: (i) a teacher from a school or district was sent to training to later
return and deliver that training to other teachers in the school or district; or (ii) a teacher in a
province was sent out to train other teachers in a poorer district or school in that province. In
Sub-component 5, efficiency-enhancing measures included the provision of free textbooks and
teaching aides to schools in disadvantaged areas, and the repair, renovation, and furnishing of
dormitory schools and semi-boarding schools which allow disadvantaged students in remote
areas to attend classes more regularly. Finally, there was generally high efficiency in the
building of new classrooms in poorer schools and/or districts, although there may have been
some exclusion of some poorer schools and/or districts that did not benefit as of yet.

Pupil-teacher ratio. On a less positive note, the project failed somewhat to induce more
efficiency in service delivery through an increase in pupil-teacher ratios. These continued to
decrease during project implementation due to a combination of declining school age population
and rigidities in teacher management (see also Annex 3).

Component 2 delivery. Finally, the efficiency of the intervention could have been enhanced had
the implementation of Component 2, and related capacity building, taken place earlier. This
would have helped address earlier on some of the still unresolved fiduciary issues of ENTP,
which decreased the potentially efficiency-enhancing effect of using country systems.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The Overall Outcome of the TBS operation is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.28 As described
above, the Project, and the Government program that it supported, continue to be extremely
relevant to the country's priorities today, and the implementation of the program and the further
strengthening of the various systems that are needed to support the Government in its
implementation, are ongoing, and continue to count on the Government's financial support (at
least up to 2015) and donor technical and financial assistance through the continuation of
Component 2 (until December 2010). During the operation's implementation period, access to
and quality of primary education improved, as did equity. There were, however, some
shortcomings and delays in implementation of the operation's fiduciary strengthening activities
which resulted in delays in addressing FM and procurement weaknesses. These weaknesses are
now expected to be addressed through the recent fiduciary efforts and the continuation of
institutional strengthening activities under Component 2. Progress towards the accomplishment
of the program's (and operation's) objectives was made with consideration to improving
efficiency, both in the operation and strengthening of the Government's ENTP program and in
the delivery of assistance by the donors.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

In its design, the TBS operation assumed that the use of the ENTP would enhance pro-poor
allocative efficiency and provide additional resources for the accomplishment of agreed sector

28
  Within the World Bank rating scale: unsatisfactory; moderately unsatisfactory; moderately satisfactory;
satisfactory; highly satisfactory.

                                                        37
priorities, especially targeted to disadvantaged groups, supporting lower poverty and social
development. There is evidence, through aggregate data (see Table 5) that the FSQL for
disadvantaged districts and the poorest areas of the country witnessed proportionately greater
improvements in FSQL than others, and well above the national average. These improvements
in disadvantaged areas are difficult to attribute exclusively to the TBS operation or ENTP
program, but they clearly played a significant role. Vietnam is on track to achieve gender parity
in primary education with male students catching-up on female students, as indicated by the
latest outcome results.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

During preparation it was unquestionable that the donors had overestimated MoET's capacity in
terms of regulatory powers, procedures, legislative backing and overall institutional capacity to
manage such a complex program. This resulted in a need for donors to focus an increasing
amount of attention on institutional strengthening. Viewed from a different perspective,
however, this could be seen as being one of the most important aspects of the donors' value-
added to the SRV. The TBS supported the selected Sub-components of an ongoing program,
while at the same time aiming to strengthen the government's capacity to implement that
program. Component 2 was specifically designed with that as an objective. In retrospect,
significant progress can be attributed to the TBS operation in institutional strengthening, starting
with the issuance of the Inter-Ministerial Joint Circular that regulated the purpose, contents,
targeting, budget management and implementation of the ENTP, which represents a significant
achievement in giving agreed policy, regulatory and management directions to the program.
The achievements under Component 2 (as documented in Section 3.2 above) all demonstrate the
significant institutional impact the TBS operation is having (and continues to have with the
continuation of this Component for another year) on the ENTP and the MoET's institutional
strengthening. Importantly, as documented in the Borrower Completion Report, TBS has also
fostered an increased demand for and awareness of the importance of good management
practices for ENTP at the central and provincial level which is already translating in high priority
for continuous/further planning, financial management and M&E training at the decentralized
level in the new 2011-2015 ENTP Joint Circular.


(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

The multi-donor nature of the TBS operation increased cohesion and interventions by the
involved donors, and presented a unified voice in working with the MoET.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The Risk to Development Outcome is assessed as Negligible. TBS funding for the eligible Sub-
components represented a minor amount of its total funding and it was implemented within the
Government's existing framework, utilizing Government systems. The operation's most

                                                38
significant impact in terms of influencing Government policies and systems was provided by the
much smaller (in terms of funding) Component 2, which, as mentioned earlier, has already
produced, and will continue to produce, important institutional results. The SRV has committed
to providing a steadily increasing percentage of the state budget to the education sector (currently
estimated at just over 20 percent).

There is some concern, that over time, ENTP funding has been allocated increasingly to
secondary and even higher education. However, resources from the ENTP are basically
allocated and managed by the provinces, with direct involvement of the PCs, and this bodes well
for a continued focus on the program's priorities and, together with the continued emphasis on
FSQL, targeting towards disadvantaged groups.




5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


The Project, whose preparation the Bank together with other donors facilitated, was innovative,
and was a good vehicle for responding to the Bank's assistance strategy and the government's
request for strengthening their program that responded to their priorities. It built on and
complemented a strong program of assistance to SRV's education sector. The overall framework
for donor provided budget support to finance priority sub-projects within the ENTP, the pooling
of resources and use of common fiduciary and M&E systems, along with a program of technical
assistance for institutional strengthening, characterized what is basically a SWAp to investment
lending. Possibly given the limited experience with SWAps at the time of preparation, possibly
given the evolution in Bank operations towards requiring that project preparation be advanced to
permit ready implementation after signing, the very systems needed to implement, monitor and
supervise the project were not in place at the time the project and IDA's financing were
considered by the Bank's Board. At the same time, the project's risks, especially with respect to
its fiduciary aspects, were underestimated, and the mitigation measures that were identified were
not sufficient to mitigate what were in retrospect important risks. For this reason, Bank
performance in ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.


(b)    Quality of Supervision (including fiduciary and safeguard policies)


The Bank's supervision effort was timely, focused, coordinated with government and donors in a
structured process and aimed at supporting the government in improving implementation through
the strengthening of its ENTP and the required governmental systems. In part because of the
project's design which provided support to the development of required FM, procurement,
payment and M&E systems during implementation, in part because of the ascertained

                                                39
weaknesses in these systems, the Bank's supervision was heavily focused on the operation's
fiduciary aspects, and the implementation of technical assistance included under Component 2
that was designed to strengthen those systems and the program. Supervision reporting was
candid as to the problems the project faced during implementation. The Bank also placed a lot of
emphasis on the achievement of FSQL, and worked closely with the MoET to ensure continued
focus on this objective in order to make progress towards the project's PDOs. The Bank worked
closely with the other TBS partners and the government in the JAR and JSARs, and their follow-
up, to ensure that TBS partners were presenting themselves as one voice to the client, even
though there were areas where donors' perspectives differed (at least at first, there was some
difference of opinion as to how "hands-on" donor supervision should be for what was essentially
a program of budget support). When issues arose, the Bank promoted and supported the
development of specialized Working Groups as an efficient method to analyze and address
problems. There is some concern expressed in the joint external evaluation that perhaps were it
not for the needed emphasis on fiduciary aspects during supervision, more attention could have
been devoted to the impact of the project on learning outcomes and pedagogical aspects. In all,
the Bank's supervision efforts is considered Satisfactory, especially in view of its drive to focus
on and respond to priority issues as they emerged, and its drive to leave in place well functioning
governmental systems that can be used to implement in the future the ENTP or other educational
programs effectively and efficiently.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

The Bank's Overall Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Despite strong supervision
efforts which resulted in the TBS operation achieving in good part its Development Objectives,
shortcomings in overestimating the government's institutional realities and capacity to put in
place rapidly the strong systems needed to implement and manage the ENTP forced supervision
efforts to focus on issues that would have been better addressed during preparation. In the end,
however, the Bank's supervision efforts seized the opportunity of project supervision to work
with the government and the donors in unison to leave in place a stronger education system,
which, albeit technical assistance is still ongoing under Component 2, will have the instruments
needed to implement, monitor, plan strategically and supervise further progress in the ENTP and
other education programs.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance
The Government's Performance (i.e., the MoF and the broader government) is considered
Moderately Satisfactory. The government has continuously assigned priority to the education
sector in general and the ENTP, in particular. From 1997 to 2008, total public expenditure for
education has increased by almost 300 percent in real terms, from 3.5 percent of GDP to 5.0
percent of GDP, and from 14 percent to 20 percent of total public expenditures. The
Government honored its commitment to increasing the yearly budget for the ENTP by
approximately 10 percent per annum from the 2005 level over the implementation period (see
Table 3). Since ENTP funding represented approximately 5 percent of the total education
budget, of which 95 percent is allocated to teachers' salaries, ENTP funding in effect doubled the
funds available for non-salary expenditures in priority programs. However, implementation was

                                                40
also affected by systemic issues that went beyond strictly those of the education sector per se and
which may have deserved stronger focus from the Government. For instance, the Government
supported the work towards issuance of the Joint-Circular, but the process was slow and would
have deserved further prioritization to provide for smoother implementation earlier on in the
program implementation. Another case was the constant yearly under-spending of allocated
ENTP budget, caused in part by the late release of budgets to provinces and districts. Overall,
the government's performance was responsive and ready to absorb technical advice on
improvements that addressed the strengthening of systems used not only for the education sector,
but also those central systems, such as TABMIS and the MTEF budget framework with which
the education sector by definition needs to interact. Had a bit more focus been put on the
program's overall framework earlier on, the program could have achieved even more.

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The Implementing Agency's Performance is also considered Moderately Satisfactory. MoET's
capacity to implement this ambitious project was never raised as an explicit risk by the
preparation effort, and perhaps overestimated. Implementation by definition was to be through
the ministry's existing departments, coordinated by its Planning and Finance Department. There
was to be a full-time Program Manager that acted as a focal point for the ENTP as a whole, and
SRV had committed to "ensure that the project is supported by additional staffing and related
resources within the concerned ministry and departments". At the same time, it was recognized
that there were wide disparities in implementation capacity of provinces and districts that would
be receiving ENTP funding, and this was initially subsumed under at least two project risks.
Against this complex environment, working through its own existing structure and systems that
were in the being improved, the MoET faced a considerable challenge but persevered and
managed to move ahead with the administration of the ENTP itself, and the institutional
strengthening activities aimed at providing its own structure with important tools for the
program's strategic planning and management, as well as for interfacing with government
systems being developed and strengthened by other ministries.               Notwithstanding this
achievement, MoET could have had a more pro-active attitude in addressing issues as they arose,
implementing Component 2, and following-up on the recommendations and technical advice
provided during and after the joint reviews. This is particularly clear in the case of fiduciary
processes were MoET performance can be considered moderately unsatisfactory. MoET was
slow in submitting the audited financial statements and audit reports, following-up on the audits
and donors' recommendations to improve financial management and procurement systems, and
taking action to ensure more financial management support for the program, better coordination
across entities for financial consolidation and reporting, and faster delivery of the fiduciary
manuals and related workshops. Recent efforts underline however renewed commitment to the
improvement of fiduciary processes and the continuation of Component 2 with continuous
emphasis on fiduciary systems bodes well for further improvement.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

The Overall Borrower Performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory based on the
Government's and Implementing Agency's performance in implementing this complex program



                                                41
through its existing institutional structure, while at the same time strengthening the very
governmental systems that were needed to support the program.

6.     Lessons Learned

There are several lessons learned from the Bank's financing of the TBS for ENTP operation.
Many of them are perhaps not worth reiterating since they are well known and apply to all
operations that the Bank finances: the importance of consistent Government commitment to the
outcome of a project, the need to have at least minimum FM, procurement and M&E systems in
place before implementation begins, and the importance of having risks well-identified and made
explicit, to name a few. Rather than focus on these, in view of the rather innovative nature of the
TBS operation, and the increasing reliance on SWAps as an approach to structure investment
projects, it would be relevant to focus on several of the lessons that the implementation of this
operation provides, especially with respect to its design.
        ·       Need for basic systems before structuring an investment operation as a SWAp.
        SWAps can provide an excellent mechanism for supporting and, in the process,
        strengthening existing Government programs, and scaling up the benefits from improved
        capacity to apply to the entirety of the program being supported. Very few projects count
        on perfect FM, Procurement and M&E systems at the outset             this is often an added
        objective in support for any project       but there are basic minimum requirements that
        should be in place before implementation begins. This is all the more important in the
        case of SWAps, where external finance is pooled together with government funds and
        where important financial and monitoring information, and procedures, will make use of
        the very systems that are being strengthened for purposes of their supervision, both by the
        Government and by donors. It is difficult to judge what is this "minimum" that should be
        in place before implementation, but it is clear that at least, the basic manuals that guide
        fiduciary and other aspects should be available at the outset, even if the assistance to be
        provided will support their improvement, strengthen and require the eventual updating of
        project requirements in those manuals, and also that all agencies involved in
        implementation are familiar with at least the initial basic requirements. This is all the
        more important when a program is implemented in a decentralized environment, which is
        often the case for SWAps. In the case of Vietnam, the SIL + "budget support" approach
        which eventually translated into a SWAp, while a conceptually sound approach to reap
        the benefits of both a SIL and a broader budget support (targeted sector financing and
        TA, with increased sustainability, potential for strengthening country systems and donor
        harmonization), ended up being very difficult to implement in the complex and low
        capacity institutional Vietnamese environment, especially in the absence of sufficient
        upfront mitigation measures, making a somewhat more traditional SIL approach (at least
        from the perspective of the use of fiduciary systems) probably a safer bet at the time. On
        the other hand, with better basic systems and upfront mitigation measures in place the
        TBS approach could be worth replicating.



       ·     M&E/attribution. Following from the above lesson, and generally obvious, good
       M&E systems are needed in order to track a project's or a program's outputs and
       outcomes. More importantly, however, is the question of how to be able to attribute

                                                42
those outputs and/or outcomes to the external financing in an environment where
government and donor funds are pooled, as is generally the case for SWAps. On the one
hand, it could be argued that a small amount of external financing is used to leverage the
operation's impact on the entirety of a program, and therefore reliance on broad country-
wide program-level indicators could be justified. On the other hand, however, it becomes
all the more important to define carefully those specific outcomes, or intermediate
outcomes, that can be realistically achieved during the operation's implementation
period. This is all the more difficult in the case of education, where there are indicators
that often work at odds with each other (e.g., expanding coverage in remote, poorer areas
often results in a deterioration in quality that affects the entire system), and where the
achievement of final, and even sometimes intermediate, outcomes more often than not
spans well beyond the implementation period of a somewhat fast-disbursing operation.



·       Donor coordination. SWAps with multi-donor financing offer a useful vehicle to
coordinate assistance in support of a government program. While differences of opinion
may well exist among donors, the very process of coordinating, participating and working
together with the government presents an environment conducive to addressing those
differences to present "one voice" to the client.

·       Impact on executing agency. At the same time, while donor coordination has
obvious advantages in terms of presenting a unified position, not supporting conflicting
objectives, etc., and the requirements of donor coordination on the client are purportedly
simplified and made consistent among donors, this does not necessarily lessen the
administrative burden on the implementing agency since a lot of often more formal up-
front preparation is required on their part to prepare and participate in joint assessments
of implementation. Even when a SWAp modality is used, working through the existing
structure of government and especially the executing agency, additional experienced staff
for handling donor-specific requirements and activities is warranted.



·      SWAp offers good opportunity for coordinating with other programs implemented
in country. Through the leverage, visibility and knowledge that providing support for a
large, broad, ongoing program affords, SWAps present good, catalytic vehicles for
developing synergies with other stand-alone operations that can benefit the program and
used to its advantage. The synergies between the TBS and the stand-alone PEDC and
BCEP operations worked positively to strengthen the planning and management of the
education sector as a whole.



·       Capacity building.         Programs of technical assistance for institutional
strengthening are often integral parts of SWAps. It is important that this capacity-
building is set up early in the implementation process ­ with related staff- to support
early institutional, and, particularly, fiduciary strengthening. The sequencing between the
capacity building component and the remaining of the program needs particular attention.

                                        43
        Consideration should be given to starting with capacity building before the budget
        support itself if existing systems are weak.



        ·       Monitoring and follow-up. In complex decentralized settings, which are often the
        SWAps environments, it is important to make sure the central level and other relevant
        agencies implement regular follow up and assistance to decentralized levels to make sure
        fiduciary processes are well understood and implemented.

        ·        Sector dialogue. SWAPs do also offer a good opportunity to address systemic
        sector issues, such as, in this case, broad education quality and equity issues, by
        coordinating with donors and Government around a common sector strategy. It is
        important to use them to maintain a vivid and continuous policy dialogue on technical
        and strategic aspects. However, basic minimum requirements for country systems need
        to be in place to maximize the potential of this policy dialogue. In their absence, as was
        the case for TBS, too much time and energy may be focused on getting fiduciary systems
        right at the expense of the sector strategic dialogue.

The above lessons are all derived and therefore also directly apply to the TBS operation. In
addition there are four other main lessons which are more specific to TBS itself:

        ·       Need for coordinating agency. Beyond better monitoring and follow-up from the
        central to the decentralized level, in the case of TBS, it would also have made sense to
        set-up a coordinating agency which, in terms of financial management, would have been
        tasked to prepare the financial statements at the different levels and consolidate on a
        program-wide level.

        ·       Making better use of existing system strengths. Instead of relying on a parallel
        MoET/Treasury reporting system difficult to reconcile, it may have been wiser to
        maximize the role of the Treasury in reporting given its overall more developed financial
        reporting expertise and generally more reliable financial reporting system.

        ·       Need for complementary quality-enhancing interventions. This operation has
        confirmed the validity of focusing on minimum quality levels for schools as an efficient
        tool to improve education quality (and learning outcomes) in Vietnam. Further analysis,
        however, also confirmed the effectiveness, in Vietnam, of other quality-enhancing
        measures not directly taken into account in minimum quality levels, such as teacher and
        principal feed-back practices and more time to learn (full-day schooling). These
        measures may need to be taken up by other operations to complement the impact of
        FSQL on quality.29 As more and more schools achieve FSQL, it may also be important to
        develop and formalize "enhanced" FSQL indicators with more emphasis on teaching and
        learning aspects, including pro-active pedagogical practices and time to learn.


29
  The new World Bank operation taken to the Board in June 2009 (SEQAP) will address the issue of transition to
full-day schooling.

                                                       44
         ·       Quality-enhancing interventions for ethnic minorities. Finally, the operation has
         also shown that achieving minimum FSQL quality levels may not be sufficient to close
         the gap in learning outcomes between the Kinh and ethnic minority groups in Vietnam,
         highlighting the importance of introducing or at least considering other learning
         outcomes' enhancing measures, such as culturally-sensitive pedagogical practices,
         flexible school schedules, sufficient time to learn, Vietnamese language strengthening
         courses and teaching of local languages, as complementary measures to maximize impact
         on ethnic minority groups. Continuous focus on the particular challenges faced by ethnic
         minority is imperative in Vietnam.

7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)      Borrower/Implementing Agencies
Implementation and results ­ strengths of ENTP/TBS-EFA. MoET recognizes some key
strenghts of the ENTP which support the findings of this ICR. These are that this system helps
provinces be active in budget allocation to programmes/projects in the geographical area;
mobilise additional resources depending on the current situation and actual requirements of each
province; and actively hamornize National Targeted Programmes within the same geographical
area. TBS-EFA was supportive of and even encouraged this approach.
Implementation and results ­ weaknesses of ENTP/TBS-EFA. MoET also points to some
weaknesses of the system which can be classified under three main headings:
         ·       Cons of decentralisation. Budget allocation in a number of provinces may not
         follow the notional budget structure which is provided to implement the prioritized
         objectives of each project in accordance with the general directions of the sector and
         therefore result in fragmented interventions, leading to much construction work in
         progress, not meeting the progress set out, etc30;
         ·       Limitations of authority and capacity of DoET and MoET. Less importance is
         attached to the role of the DoET to give advice to provincial/municipal People's
         Committees on the administration and budget allocation for the ENTP. The management
         and direction capacity of the central executive agency (MoET) is limited resulting in
         difficulties to achieve the general objectives set out. Related to the two above
         weaknesses, the periodic reporting of provinces and other Ministries' agencies to the
         executive agency has not yet been followed strictly, resulting in difficulties for the
         executive agency to consolidate and assess the implementation of the National Targeted
         Programmes of each sector before submitting to the Government and relevant agencies as
         required. The reality shows that in those provinces/cities where DoETs take the lead in
         the advice given to provincial/municipal People's Committees, the implementation of the
         ENTP has generally been done according to the objectives set out and general directions
         of the sector and reporting requirements have been strictly followed with high quality,
         for example: Tien Giang, Kien Giang, An Giang and Binh Phuoc.



30
   Clearly in the eyes of MoET decentralization is both a blessing and a curse and they have trouble in finding the
right balance between central and local priorities.

                                                         45
         ·       Weak application of TBS budget codes. Budget project codes have taken time to
         be clarified during the budget delegation to relevant units in many provinces as required
         or targeted supplements from provincial budget for district, commune budget and
         payment order-based allocation. As a result, allocation to different projects in the
         geographical area and thus, the accounting for the ENTP funds, has not been done
         comprehensively; has been difficult to be monitored and assessed, and is fragmented.
         This led to the result that funds are used less effectively and it is difficult to achieve those
         objectives as planned.
         ·       Starting earlier with Component 2. In both design and operational terms, MoET
         concurs that, with the benefit of experience, Component 2 of TBS-EFA should have been
         begun before Component 1 or at the least concurrently with it. Building capacity earlier
         in the program through the style of activities in Component 2 could arguably have
         reduced some of the problems encountered in implementing Component 1.

Others
   ·     World Bank rating. Interactions between the WB and the MoET and other SRV
         ministries and agencies concerned with the loan have been uniformly balanced and
         productive. Staff of the WB have been consistent supporters, useful advisers and, on
         occasion, relevant critics in helping TBS to maintain its momentum and sense of
         direction in strengthening EFA. These elements justify an overall positive performance
         of the World Bank. The World Bank with other donors has been properly concerned to
         improve the quality of procurement and audit procedures and of underlying financial
         management practices. However, the World Bank and other donors may not have fully
         appreciated the dynamism but also complexity of the Vietnamese situation when, in
         2005, the Project Appraisal Document and the Memorandum of Understanding were
         finalized, resulting in unrealistic expectations about TBS. In retrospect, risk assessment
         was probably not as thorough or realistic as it needed to be; or perhaps too much reliance
         was placed on the assessment done for or through the perspective of PEDC which has a
         different governance/management structure and implementation.



         ·     Government's support. There has been high level SRV support to MoET in its
         implementation activities underpinning E-NTP and TBS-EFA and this is seen in the
         many examples of legislation and regulations.



         ·      MoET's performance. MoET in collaboration with other ministries and
         provincial and district units has steadily and consistently provided support and
         encouragement for new and improved planning and financial management practices.
         Notwithstanding this effort, in general, capacity for monitoring and evaluation in all areas
         of education and management in Vietnam is not yet as well developed as needed for a
         Ministry engaged on modernization. Until 2009, a lack of capacity may be seen in the
         area of financial management and reporting at DoET and BoET levels when training in
         new procedures and requirements has not always kept pace with the decentralization of
         public administration functions. For instance, until recently E-NTP financial reports

                                                   46
from provincial authorities were submitted late or not at all. However, for the JAR in
October 2009, there was a marked improvement with 50 of 63 provinces submitting
reports on time compared with 29 received in April 2009. The division of responsibilities
for E-NTP financial management and reporting among concerned entities at the sub-
national level such as MoET, State Treasury, and MoF is also progressively becoming
clearer.



·       Underspending. Underspending is a systemic whole-of-government issue in
Vietnam. During the latter part of 2009, and particularly the last quarter, TBS funded
workshops are supporting MoET in collaboration with other ministries, particularly State
Treasury to provide provincial level training and capacity building to address the
efficiency aspects of procedures at provincial level. Thus far six national workshops have
been held in the October/December period involving multiple stakeholders. This is a
direct and positive response to audit and other findings about underspending even if
outside the exact time frame of the World Bank report.



·       M&E: MoET has recognised the importance to planning and management of
effective M&E for E-NTP and across operations. An M&E manual draft has been
developed. It is planned in TBS2 Work Plan that training workshops in provinces will
include an M&E session. Using budget savings an additional international M&E adviser
has been contracted to help implement Workplan activities from January 2010.



·       Additional lessons learned. The lessons of this report are shared by MoET.
Additional ones are: MoET to annually assign tasks with detailed performance indicators
to be completed by each province in each year; as provided by regulation, assign to each
DoET the key role in allocating E-NTP expenditure of each province; for the provinces
not following regulations in reporting and other important matters, consider termination
of their E-NTP allocation; assist and support improved reporting through the
development and training in the use of templates, particularly relating to Joint Circular
125 of 2008; undertake a sample study of effective E-NTP management in different
regions to create a flexible basis for training and socialization nationwide, and reach the
higher efficiency in E-NTP implementation; consider in the new ENTP a resource
allocation cycle of five years to assist localities to meet their objectives (provincial
suggestions); funding for M&E activities should be provided in budgets as well as
expenditure norms for implementation, and if an education sector entity lacked M&E
performance capacity, it should be possible to hire external consultants based on a
separate budget (provincial suggestions); to allow completion of a specific capital
investment to meet planned provincial objectives, ENTP resources might be focused,
within an annual cycle, on one sub-component.




                                        47
(b)        Co financiers


This ICR includes the perspective of the several co-financers in many different ways. First, and
most importantly, a joint evaluation of the program (commissioned by the EC) has been
undertaken from the 21st of September to the 21st of October 2009 by a team of external
evaluators. This evaluation entailed a comprehensive review of all aspects of the program,
including fieldwork in six provinces, interviews with multiple stakeholders at both central and
local level, and significant document and data gathering and review. The evaluation gave rise to
a comprehensive report which has been submitted for comments to the TBS partners and
Government and has constituted a critical input for this ICR. Its executive summary is enclosed
in Annex 8. Second, this ICR has been shared with all TBS partners and incorporates many of
their editorial and substantive comments. Third, some additional comments on some substantive
aspects of the report are enclosed below.31



                      ·      TBS and efficiency. The argument presented in this report follows the
                      logic of the initial economic analysis of 'anticipated benefits in efficiency'
                      through an acceleration of FSQL achievement. While one might 'anticipate' a
                      correlation between acceleration of FSQL and efficiency, the fact alone that
                      FSQL improved does not definitively ensure efficiency gains due to TBS. To
                      get a proper read on efficiency, one would need to determine that the marginal
                      increase in resources (GVN and Donors) resulted in a disproportionately larger
                      increase in outcomes (FSQL, other outcomes). That is, each additional dollar
                      spent resulted in more in terms of outcomes than the original dollars spent prior
                      to this intervention. This is virtually impossible to pin down.



                      ·     TBS and capacity building. "Consideration should be given to starting
                      with capacity building before the budget support itself if existing systems are
                      weak." It is suggested even further, that regardless of existing system
                      strengths/weaknesses, the capacity building component should commence prior
                      to the budget support as this will allow for enhanced engagement with the
                      systems and a better, more accurate understanding of their
                      strengths/weaknesses.



                      ·      TBS and budget support modality.         Donors have had access to
                      Government of Vietnam documents which they never would have had with a
                      project. The quality of these documents generally has improved over time.
                      There is the expectation that the lessons learned from implementation of the
                      programme will have a long term impact. If TBS had been a traditional project
                      it is questionable whether the same lessons would have been learnt.

31
     Without differentiating among donors.

                                                    48
              ·    TBS and educational outcomes. There should have been a greater balance
              between reporting and taking action on pursuing broader educational outcomes
              and research and studies and a move away from the current concentration on
              FM and audit reporting on the administration of the education TBS.



              ·    TBS and visibility. In any future programmes, greater attention should be
              given to visibility and specific responsibility should be allocated as to who or
              which donor should deal with this.


(c)   Other Partners and Stakeholders [not applicable]




                                            49
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

 (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 Component I: achievement of
                                     123.00              123.00            100.00
FSQL standards
 Component II: institutional
                                       5.00                2.60            52.00
strengthening for NTP

           Total Baseline Cost         128.00              125.60          98.12
Physical Contingencies
                                         0.00                0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies
                                         0.00                0.00           0.00
            Total Project Costs
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00                0.00           .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00                0.00           .00
    Total Financing Required           128.00              125.60          98.12


(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                   Co financing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)   millions)
 BELGIUM: MoFA-Directorate-
                                                  6.00         6.00       100.00
General for Int. Coop.(DGIC)
 Borrower                                         380.00       380.00     100.00
 CANADA: Canadian International
                                                  11.00        9.70       88.00
Development Agency (CIDA)
 UK: British Department for
                                                  38.00        36.90      97.00
International Development (DFID)
 EC: European Commission                          20.00        20.00      100.00
 NEW ZEALAND, Govt. of (Except
                                                  3.00         3.00       100.00
for Min. of Foreign Affairs)
 International Development
                                                  50.00        50.00      100.00
Association (IDA)




                                           50
Annex 2: Outputs by Components/Sub-Components

Component 1




                                    51
ENTP TBS-                                   Achievements of 2006-2008/09
financed Sub-
component             Main Outputs (2006-2008/09)      FSQL result indicator which can be related
                                                       (*) to sub-component
                                                       Indicator              2005      2009
Sub-Component 1:   -Programs to reduce illiteracy      -No. and % of             237,738   222,303
Eradication of     and/or prevent illiteracy           Teachers (all sites) to   66%       64%
Illiteracy,        recurrence implemented in the       having received 5 or
Universalisation ofpoorest provinces                   more Days on In-
Primary Education  -Surveys conducted and data         Service Training
                                                       FSQL (non
and Achievement of collected on measuring and          cumulative)
Universal          assessing universalisation
Secondary          -Training of teachers and           -No. and % of Grades      127,095   235,739
Education          education managers to address       to Have Teaching          81%       88%
                   the challenges of                   Aids for Reading
                   universalisation                    FSQL
                   -Additional teaching and
                   learning materials for primary
                   education, and teacher salary
                   supplements, provided to all
                   schools with less than universal
                   primary education
                   -Additional teaching and
                   learning materials for secondary
                   education, and teacher salary
                   supplements, provided to
                   schools with less than universal
                   secondary education
Sub-Component 2:   -Renovation of the curriculum       -No. and % of             237,738   222,303
Renovation of      for the primary and lower           Teachers (all sites) to   66%       64%
Curriculum and     secondary education cycle           having received 5 or
Textbooks/Teaching completed or consolidated           more Days on In-
                                                       Service Training
Methods            during the reference period
                                                       FSQL (non
                   - Printing and distribution of      cumulative)
                   textbooks, teaching aids and
                   teacher guides on a large scale     -No. and % of Grades      127,095   235,739
                   (including the replacement of all   to Have Teaching          81%       88%
                   books and minimum teaching-         Aids for Reading
                   learning aids for general           FSQL
                   education)
                   -In-service teacher training on
                   new curriculum (about 140,000
                   teachers)


                                            52
Sub-Component 4:      -Pre-service training to 12+ 2      -No. and % of             237,738   222,303
Upgrading Teacher     provided to about 2,000 teachers    Teachers (all sites) to   66%       64%
Training              -In-service training mostly on      having received 5 or
Institutions and      new curriculum and textbooks        more Days on In-
Teacher Training      provided to about 200,000           Service Training
                                                          FSQL (non
                      teachers and 25,000 education
                                                          cumulative)
                      managers
                      -Infrastructure upgrading
                      (including construction,
                      renovation, equipment and other
                      facilities) provided to teacher
                      training institutes of mostly
                      disadvantaged provinces
Sub-Component 5:      -Construction, renovation of, and   -No. and % of Grades      127,095   235,739
Support for           provision of equipment, supplies    to Have Teaching          81%       88%
Education of Ethnic   and learning materials for,         Aids for Reading
Minorities and        classrooms, laboratories,           FSQL
Disadvantaged         libraries, canteens, dormitories,
                                                          -No. and % of Schools     11,248    18,129
Groups                and multi-functional rooms of
                                                          (all sites) to have                 48%
                      provincial and district boarding    Potable Water FSQL
                                                                                    28%
                      schools for ethnic minorities
                      -Construction of additional         -No. and % of
                      dormitories for semi-boarding       Classrooms (all sites)    110,137   217,113
                      schools for ethnic minorities       to have a Good            49%       96%
                      -Construction and renovation an     Blackboard FSQL
                      provision of learning materials
                      for schools in mountainous and      -No. and % of
                      disadvantaged areas                 Classrooms (all sites)    136,904   163,501
                                                          to have Achieved          61%       73%
                                                          School Construction
                                                          FSQL
Sub-Component 6:      -Construction, renovation of, an    -No. and % of Schools     11,248    18,129
Infrastructure        provision of equipment and          (all sites) to have       28%       48%
Development           furniture for, 13,367 classrooms    Potable Water FSQL
                      ­ including pre-school, primary,
                      secondary and higher education      -No. and % of             110,137   217,113
                                                          Classrooms (all sites)
                                                                                    49%       96%
                                                          to have a Good
                                                          Blackboard FSQL

                                                          -No. and % of
                                                          Classrooms (all sites)    136,904   163,501
                                                          to have Achieved          61%       73%
                                                          School Construction
                                                          FSQL



                                              53
(*) but only partly attributed

Component 2

                                              Policy Matrix (original)
                                 Issues Starting Year               Issues Starting Year             Issues Starting Year
                                         2006                               2007                             2008
    A.    Education Management
Enhancing decentralized      ·     Assess central, provincial       ·   Review of Provincial 5-
planning and decision              and district level financial         Year Planning approach
making                             and performance reporting            and differential trends in
                                   mechanisms, including                progress towards
                                   the role of the inspectorate         reducing FSQL gaps
                             ·     Assessment of central,           ·   Approaches to capacity
                                   provincial and district              assessment and
                                   level NTP management                 enhancement in the
                                   capacity                             sector
Monitoring education         ·     Mainstreaming indicators                                          ·   Assessment of student
participation, quality and         of Fundamental School                                                 achievement in Grade 5
student outcomes                   quality Levels into EMIS
Promoting community          ·     Identification and
involvement and school             application of options to
accountability                     strengthen bottom-up
                                   community-level
                                   accountability
    B.    Education Finance
Strengthening resource       ·     Education budget amounts         ·   Education budget             ·   Education budget
allocation                         to 18.1% of national                 amounts to 18.6% of              amounts to 19.1% of
                                   budget                               national budget                  national budget
                             ·     Proposals for formula            ·   Review of trends in non-     ·   Proposals for funding
                                   funding and national                 salary expenditure share         formula to ensure that a
                                   allocation of the ENTP               in education                     sufficient level of
                                                                                                         budget reaches schools
                                                                                                         to deliver an adequate
                                                                                                         and effective level of
                                                                                                         service
Enhancing pro-poor           ·     Assessment of                    ·   Impact of private costs      ·   Plans for expansion of
budgeting and spending             interventions to enhance             to education and local-          full-day schooling for
                                   educational outcomes of              level monitoring by              disadvantaged children
                                   ethnic minority students             social organizations of      ·   Mid-term review of
                                                                        primary school fee               ENTP 2006-2010
                                                                        exemptions for poor              implementation
                                                                        children
Strengthening financial      ·     Progress in the set up of
management and auditing            an integrated Treasury
                                   and Budget Management
                                   Information System
Inter-ministerial                                                   ·   Adoption of Education
coordination between                                                    Medium Term
MoET, MPI and MoF                                                       Expenditure Framework




                                                               54
                                         Policy Matrix (main outputs)
Policy Themes   Focus Areas                     Indicators                               Progress To Date
     A. EDUCATION MANAGEMENT

A1 Enhancing      A1.1     Financial   Strengths and weaknesses of     ·   Financial Education Planning & Management
decentralized     planning       and   existing system and                 Advisers conducted analysis by July/August 2007
planning and      reporting systems    recommendations for             ·   Analysis with recommendations completed August
decision-making                        enhancing mechanisms                2007
                                       identified
                                       Activity plan specifying        ·   Activity plan developed by Financial Education
                                       development process for the         Planning & Management Advisers August 2007
                                       strengthening of system and
                                       mechanisms adopted by
                                       Government
                                       All provinces and districts     ·   Improved planning procedures developed and
                                       adopt and apply steps               aligned with sector-wide planning methodology
                                       specified above for the             (BCEP)
                                       strengthening of the            ·   JC issued to guide strategic planning and
                                       education planning,                 management
                                       financial and results-based     ·   JC including revised FMR and an IR aligned with
                                       reporting                           ENTP and sector M&E framework adopted by
                                                                           SRV, workshops conducted to promote and
                                                                           explain financing and planning arrangements
                                                                       ·   Planning Manual support tool finalized by 2008
                                                                       ·   Training and roll out of new planning procedures
                                                                           underway
                                                                       ·   Support for the extension of VANPRO to district
                                                                           level planning and process of training and
                                                                           coaching underway
                  A1.2 ENTP            Strengths and weaknesses of     ·   Assessment instruments developed August 2007
                  management           existing system and             ·   Assessment field trips began August 2007
                  capacity             recommendations for
                                       enhancing management
                                       capacity identified
                                       Activity Plan specifying        ·   National and Provincial action plans expected to
                                       development process for the         be incorporated in Capacity Building Strategy
                                       strengthening of                    (still to be finalized)
                                       management capacity             ·   ENTP Capacity Building Strategy includes
                                       adopted by Government               detailed schedule of activity at national, provincial
                                                                           and district level
                                                                       ·   Local schedules confirming dates and locations of
                                                                           training, coaching and capacity building
                                                                           developed early 2009
                                                                       ·   Capacity Building Strategy to be implemented
                                                                           starting 2009
A2 Monitoring     A2.1 Monitoring      DFA and FSQL data used to       ·   Available annually in District FSQL Audit Reports
education         Education            monitor and track primary           (under the PEDC Project)
participation,    Participation and    school/district progress
quality and       Quality
student
outcomes
                                       Set of ENTP indicators          ·   M&E/EMIS advisers contracted August 2007
                                       providing tangible outputs to   ·   Work to develop ENTP reporting formats which
                                       be used for monitoring              use FSQL indicators under way
                                       results of ENTP                 ·   Draft M&E manual completed
                                       EMIS system starts to           ·   Preliminary inter-project and EMIS Technical

                                                             55
                                      provide data on the progress       Working Group meetings held throughout 2007
                                      of primary schools and         ·   Governance framework developed 2008
                                      districts in reaching FSQL     ·   M&E/EMIS advisers presently working with
                                                                         SREM and PEDC to develop strategy
                                                                     ·   Strategy and roadmap for integration of FSQL into
                                                                         EMIS reviewed at JAR09
                                      FSQL tool for Lower            ·   Lower Secondary School indicators drafted by
                                      Secondary adopted                  Second Lower Secondary Education Project in
                                                                         2007
                                                                     ·   TA facilitating ongoing collaboration on FSQL
                                                                         and EMIS also for Lower Secondary
                  A2.2 Monitoring     Assessment of Student          ·   Data collected and consolidated for analysis
                  Student Outcomes    Achievement in Grade 5         ·   Report completed in 2008/2009
                                                                     ·   Revision to improve comparability with 2001
                                                                         results completed
                                      Policy recommendations         ·   Under way: see for instance implications for new
                                      developed from Assessment          2008-2020 Education Sector Strategy and the
                                      of Student Achievement in          MoET ethnic minority development programs
                                      Grade 5
A3 Promoting      A3.1 Community      Good practice identified;      ·   Presently working with BCEP to identify best
community         involvement in      strategy developed                 practice and develop a strategy
involvement and   school planning                                    ·   Field survey instrument developed
school            decision-making,                                   ·   Related field visits to be conducted
accountability    monitoring and
                  accountability
                                      Community participation        ·   No action in 2008 on community participation
                                      capacity building programs     ·   BCEP and SREM extensions do not include scope
                                                                         to carry out community capacity building

     B. EDUCATION FINANCE
B1            B1.1 National           Education budget in relation   ·   Financial statements show that education budget
Strengthening budget allocation       to national budget (target:        amounts to 18.1%, 18.6% and 20.0% of national
resource                              19.1% in 2008)                     budgets in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively
allocation
                                      Review of trends in non-       ·   Trends reviewed
                                      salary expenditure share in    ·   Non-salary expenditure increasing in per-pupil
                                      education                          terms
                  B1.2 Resource       Key FSQL indicators for        ·   Financial Education Planning & Management and
                  allocation using    ENTP resource allocation of        M&E/EMIS and Educational Planning and
                  FSQL (primary)      primary school level agreed        Management advisers contracted July/August
                                      at central and provincial          2007
                                      levels                         ·   Revision of ENTP planning, monitoring and
                                                                         reporting templates underway
                                                                     ·   Meetings to develop a set of principles for 2008
                                                                         ENTP budget allocation held in August 2007
                                      All provinces applying         ·   New allocation formula completed: since 2008
                                      agreed FSQL indicators for         MoET routinely using FSQL as part of ENTP
                                      ENTP resource allocation at        allocation process and providing provinces with
                                      primary school level               allocation information
                  B1.3 Resource       Local secondary school         ·   Preliminary meeting held in July 2007 between
                  allocation (lower   indicators developed and           TBS for NTP and Lower Secondary Education
                  secondary)          piloted                            Projects
                                                                     ·   Lower secondary school indicators drafted by LSE
                                                                         Project
                                                                     ·   Linked planning, monitoring, reporting and budget
                                                                         allocation mechanisms not in LSE Project brief
                                      Official communication by      ·   Still needs to be implemented
                                      SRV for the introduction of
                                      lower secondary school
                                      indicators; all provinces


                                                            56
                                   applying lower secondary
                                   school ENTP indicators as
                                   key resource allocation
                                   mechanism
B2 Enhancing    B2.1 Educational   Study conduction; inter-        ·   First draft of study on Ethnic Minorities presented
pro-poor        Achievement of     ministerial meeting                 to JSAR09
budgeting and   Disadvantaged      conducted to present,           ·   Study currently under revision
spending        Children           discuss and develop a           ·   Support to new development programs for ethnic
                                   strategy for auctioning             minorities in the period 2009-2015
                                   recommendations; mid-term       ·   Development and implementation of the final
                                   review of ENTP 2006-2010            2010 and baseline 2015 ENTP evaluation
                                   implementation                      instrument to be undertaken in 2010
                B2.2 Household     Study conduction; inter-        ·   Studies begun and recommendations expected end
                Costs of           ministerial meeting                 2009
                Education          conducted to present,
                                   discuss and develop a
                                   strategy for auctioning
                                   recommendations
                B2.3 Full Day      Strategy, action plan and       ·   Ethnic minority community related studies will
                Schooling          timeline developed                  inform the development of the strategy for full day
                                                                       schooling for disadvantaged children
                                                                   ·   Support from SEQAP to be coordinated
B3              B3.1 Treasury      Draft TABMIS                    ·   Public Financial Management Project working
Strengthening   Budget             disseminated to relevant            with MoF, State Treasury and line agencies to
financial       Management         stakeholders                        develop TABMIS
management      Information                                        ·   Currently analyzing financial management
systems and     System                                                 mechanisms and linkages between ministries in
auditing        (TABMIS)                                               order to develop accountancy codes and program
                                                                       software before piloting
                                                                   ·   State Treasury Manual developed
                                   Official communication of       ·   To be facilitated by the Public Financial
                                   instruction for introduction        Management Project (PFMP)
                                   of TABMIS; Official
                                   instruction on utilization of
                                   standardized financial
                                   reporting format
                                   All provinces utilizing         ·   PFM Project plan to begin piloting in DoFs and
                                   TABMIS; All provinces               BoFs in all provinces in 2008/2009
                                   adopt and complete unified
                                   reporting format
B4 Inter-       B4.1 Medium        Revised MTEF agreed; plan       ·   PFMP responsible for coordinating the
ministerial     Term Expenditure   and timeline for the                development and piloting of MTEF
coordination    Framework          expansion of MTEF across        ·   MoET participated in regional forum on MTEF
between MoET,   (MTEF)             all 64 provinces developed
MPI and MoF
                                   Four provinces and              ·   PFMP leading the development and
                                   respective districts adopt          implementation of MTEF related activities at
                                   and utilize MTEF                    central, provincial and community levels. MoET
                                                                       under the guidance of PFMP is involved in the
                                                                       design of education sector MTEF at central level.
                                                                       DoET, under the guidance of PFMP is involved in
                                                                       the design of the education sector MTEF at
                                                                       provincial levels




                                                         57
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis

The PAD for the project did not undertake a traditional economic analysis of the project, with a
calculated economic rate of return, and as such cannot be replicated. Instead it focused on
assessing the benefits of investing in operational (non-salary) items, and more particularly in
achieving FSQL, with the assumption that bringing schools, in particular in disadvantaged areas,
up to this level would generate: (a) efficiency benefits through improved quality; and (b) equity
benefits through reduction in the disparities in inputs and outcomes. The expectation was that
improvements in FSQL, through an improved input mix, would be conducive to achievement of
benefits in internal and external efficiency through improved learning outcomes, reduced dropout
rates, increased completion rates and transition rates to lower secondary, improved academic
performance in lower secondary as a result of improved learning outcomes in primary, and
higher earnings for those who enter the labor force as a consequence of improved academic
performance overall, all of these with an especially greater impact in disadvantaged areas. While
the link with drop-out, completion and transition rates (as proxies for internal efficiency) were
not explicitly modeled in the economic analysis, the link with learning outcomes (used more as a
proxy of effectiveness and external efficiency through its link with earnings) was, using a 2001
large scale study on reading comprehension and mathematics achievement. The results provided
the empirical basis for the expectation that reaching FSQL would improve student achievement
and related educational and labor market outcomes, by showing that student achievement was
significantly correlated with teacher capacity and school resources (which are key FSQL inputs).

Using a similarly large scale 2008/2009 analysis on reading and mathematics achievement32, we
were able not only to confirm but also improve on these results by showing a direct significant
correlation between the FSQL Input Index and learning outcomes in both math and reading33,
and a significant impact in terms of magnitude.34 In terms of magnitude, the impact of the FII
comes just after school head and teacher improved pedagogical practices and the adoption of full
day schooling in the category of schools' characteristics when we compare the standardized
coefficients35 (family and student socio-economic background and characteristics, which are
obviously controlled for, remaining as expected the strongest predictors). Although we do not
have specific cost data on the different interventions (most of them being very difficult to cost),
it is probably fair to say that improving pedagogical practices (in this specific case bringing
teachers to provide regular feed-back to students and principals to monitor teaching through
classroom observations) is the most cost-effective measure, followed by investing in FSQL and
then transiting to full-day schooling (which carries great rewards but for substantial in-depth
investment in terms of resources, teachers and infrastructure). If teacher and principal training
included in FSQL was well targeted towards improving their capacity to provide feed-back and


32
   Result of a joint study between MoET, NIES, University of Melbourne, and the World Bank.
33
   While the 2001 study was in fact not directly regressing achievement on the FII but rather used teacher and school
resources related variables, not always strictly included in FSQL.
34
   An improvement in about 10 points of the FSQL Input Index is associated with an increase of 7.2 score points in
math and 4.8 points in reading.
35
   By standardizing the coefficients we are able to rank variables in terms of their relative strength of influence on
the outcome within the same sample.

                                                         58
 undertake effective classroom observation, the cost-effectiveness of investing in FSQL would be
 further increased.

 Table 1: Estimated effects from the three level multi-linear model for reading and
 mathematics (2007/08)
                                                         Reading                       Mathematics
                      Factor Name             Standardized Metric      SE      Standardized Metric     SE
                                                   (a)        (b)      (c)         (d)       (e)       (f)
Province Level
                      Intercept                             263.70     18.82                  144.39   23.48
Leadership            School head                    0.06     0.49      0.16          0.10      0.68    0.21
                      observation of
                      teaching
School level
School socio-         School location                0.03       4.90    1.98
economic
background            Family possession              0.07     4.20      0.98          0.12      5.83    1.64
Learning conditions   Minutes to school             -0.04    -0.86      0.29
                      Teacher feedback               0.06    24.30      4.20          0.12     38.19    5.47
Teacher support       Level of excellent             0.03     5.37      1.95          0.05      6.41    2.66
                      teacher award
                      Class learning tools           0.03       2.90    1.04          0.04      3.20    1.69
School Resources      Fundamental school             0.04       0.48    0.15          0.08      0.72    0.25
                      index
Student level
                      Ethnicity                                                       0.09     20.85    4.49
Socio-economic
                      Family possession              0.10     4.03      0.35          0.12      3.84    0.91
status
                      Parent education               0.11     2.38      0.18          0.13      2.45    0.33
Student               Gender                         0.08    19.79      1.57
characteristics       Health status                 -0.07    -7.82      0.75          -0.09    -8.77    1.67
                      Number of meals per
                      day                            0.04    10.39      1.97          0.05     10.02    3.25
                      Sum of repeated
Learning condition
                      class                         -0.07    -9.66      0.74          -0.09    -9.61    1.40
                      Sum of learning tools                                            0.00     6.81    1.27
                      Full day schooling             0.05    11.14      2.59           0.09    14.94    4.33
Teacher support       Teacher feedback               0.03     7.34      1.72           0.05     8.17    2.83
 Source: NIES- University of Melbourne-World Bank-DFID(2009).

 Financial Analysis

 A rigorous financial analysis was not done either in the Project Appraisal Document, but past
 trends in education spending were presented as well as some longer term expenditure
 projections, making the main point that the program was timely to "bridge" the needs for
 additional non-salary expenditures with no negative sustainability implications in the long-run.
 The "bridging" argument was based on the fact that in spite of a doubling in real terms between
 1998 and 2004, "operational" (non-salary) expenditure in primary education remained very low,
 but that in the future a combination of growing budgetary resources available for education and
 declining enrolments in primary education would allow the allocation of greater resources to

                                                      59
non-personnel inputs in the primary sector. The program would then "bridge" resources between
these two time horizons. The sustainability argument was based on the above mentioned future
trends and the fact, that with the exception of teacher training which needs to be refreshed, most
ENTP expenditures would carry no or little annual recurrent implications, which would imply
that, even while continuing growing in absolute terms (as expected), the relative weight of the
ENTP recurrent expenditure would actually decrease in terms of the overall education recurrent
budget.
The updated expenditure review shown in Table 2 shows that both predictions were correct.
Indeed, while still low in 2004, "operational" expenditure per student had grown significantly by
2008 ­ in part because of the ENTP and in part reflecting the overall increase in primary
education expenditure per student. ENTP, and its focus on FSQL, acted therefore as an
operational resource boost while regular education resources per student were gradually
increasing. Additionally, while continuing to increase in absolute terms, the relative weight of
the ENTP recurrent expenditure indeed has gradually been falling from 2006 to 2008 because of
the ENTP expenditure nature and the increasing overall education recurrent budget, suggesting
no negative sustainability implications and that the State Budget is gradually covering an
increasing share of the maintenance of FSQL.
On the other hand, while the trends in overall and per student education expenditure are positive
(the expenditure review indicates very clearly that the priority given to education expenditure has
been growing in Vietnam in the 1997-2008 time period according to all indicators, and that
primary education expenditure has increased in real terms (by 165%) and even more notably in
per-student terms (by 300%) taking advantage of the rapidly decreasing primary student
population), the data also show growing inefficiencies in the system in terms of rapidly
decreasing pupil-teacher ratios (see also Figure 1), accompanied by an increasing share of
recurrent-salary costs (in spite of an absolute increase in non recurrent or operational expenditure
per student), which the country will need to tackle urgently to improve the cost-effectiveness of
its education system. TBS-EFA was not successful in addressing this issue (for which it also had
few available tools). In this context, the continuation of ENTP remains important to continue
supporting operational expenditures, although on a decreasing basis, at least up to when more
efficient teacher deployment and a consequent decrease in the total salary burden is not achieved.
Figure 1: Education Expenditure per Student (US$) and Pupil-Teacher ratio (primary)
                           140
                           120
                           100
                            80
                            60
                            40
                            20
                             0
                                 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008

                                 Pupil-Teacher Ratio                Expenditure per Student
                                 Power (Pupil-Teacher Ratio)        Power (Expenditure per Student)

             Source: Table 2




                                                               60
Table 2: Education Expenditure Review
In Billions VND                  1997      1998     1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005        2006       2007         2008
GDP (1)                                  361,500            441,646   481,295   535,762   613,443   715,307   839,211    974,266   1,144,015   1,478,695
Total Expenditure (2)           70,749    73,419   84,817   103,151   119,403   135,490   162,150   187,353   226,935    297,232    351,421     407,095
Total Recurrent Expenditure     48,825    49,998   51,551    68,045    75,084    80,566   102,521   121,238   154,978
(3)
Total Salary Expenditure (4)    21,580    24,220   23,275    29,523    35,931    37,050
Total Capital Expenditure (5)   21,924    23,421   33,266    35,106    44,319    54,924    59,629    66,115    71,957
Total Education Expenditure      9,979    12,750   13,232    16,344    19,505    22,596              34,847             54,798       66,770       81,419
(6)
Total Education Recurrent        7,767     9,199    9,803    11,874    14,148    16,548    22,881    25,343    32,351     40,745     51,880       59,295
Expend (7)
Total Education Salary           4,308     5,544    5,883     7,707     9,231    10,317
Expend. (8)
Total Education Capital          2,212     3,551    3,429     4,470     5,357     6,047               9,504                           13023       13,898
Expend. (9)
(6)/(1) % Ratio of Educ                     3.53               3.70      4.05      4.22                4.87                              5.8          5.5
Exp/GDP
(6)/(2) % Ratio of Educ          14.10     17.37    15.60     15.84     16.34     16.68               18.60                             19.0          20
Exp/Tot Exp
(7)/(3) % Ratio of Educ          15.91     18.40    19.02     17.45     18.84     20.54     22.32     20.90     20.87
Rec/Tot Rec
(9)/(5) % Ratio of Educ          10.09     15.16    10.31     12.73     12.09     11.01               14.37
Cap/Tot Cap
(7)/((6) % Recurrent Educ        77.83     72.15    74.09     72.65     72.54     73.23               72.73                             77.7         73.1
Share
(9)/(6) % Capital Educ Share     22.17     27.85    25.91     27.35     27.46     26.76               27.27                             19.5         17.0
Total Primary Education                    4497               5258      6380      7143               10803                            19471        22015
Expend. (10)
Number of Pupils (Primary)               102500             9751000             8841000   8350000                       6894351                  6753648
(11)                                         00
Number of Teachers                       336792             347833                        362627                         347000                   344763
(Primary) (12)
(10)/(6) % Ratio of Pri                    35.27              32.17     32.71     31.61               31.00                           29.60        27.00
Educ/Tot Educ
(10)/(11) Primary Exp per                   439                539                 808                                                              3260
Student (in 000 VND)
(11)/(12) Pupil-Teacher Ratio              30.43              28.03                         23.03                          19.87                   19.59
Total Primary Education Exp.               4,608              5,258     6,380     6,896               9,381                          13,417       12,234
(in 2000 VND) (13)
(13)/(11) Primary Exp per                   450                539                 780                                                              1811
Student (in 2000 000 VND)
Primary Non salary                                                                                      66                   108        136
("operational") Exp per
Student (in 2003 000 VND)

                                                                          61
ENTP (State Budget                                                                                                                                         2,970         3,380        3,480
Funding) (14)
(14)/(7) % of Total Education                                                                                                                                5.7            5.2         4.2
Expenditure
ENTP (State Budget                                                                                                                                         2,258         2,184        2,190
Funding) Recurrent (15)
(15)/(7) % of Total Recurrent                                                                                                                                5.5            4.2         3.6
Education Expenditure
Source: Vietnam Public Expenditure Review (2005) up to 2002; MoF data and education sector projections after 2002; IMF World Economic Outlook Database; MoET-DPF; Italic: estimates




                                                                                           62
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
            Names                         Title                       Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Luis Benveniste          Sr. Education Specialist                    EASHD Task Team Leader
Binh Than Vu             Senior Education Specialist                 EASHD
Carol Ball               Senior Operations Officer                   EASHD
Mai Thi Thanh            Senior Education Specialist                 EASHD
Stefanie Stallmeister    Education Specialist                        EASHD
Ahsan Ali                Senior Procurement Specialist               EAPCO
Irina Luca               Senior Procurement Specialist               EAPCO
Joel Turkewitz           Senior Procurement Specialist               OPCPR
Jennifer Thomson         Senior FM Specialist                        EAPCO
Hung Viet Le             FM Specialist                               EAPCO
Thong Quang Tran         FM Specialist                               EAPCO
Hoi-Chan Nguyen          Senior Counsel                              LEGEA
Xiomara Morel            Senior Finance Officer                      LOAG1
David Webber             Lead Finance Officer                        LOAG1
Chiyo Kanda              Peer Reviewer                               OPCIL
Chingboon Lee            Peer Reviewer                               LCSHD
Michel Welmond           Peer Reviewer                               MNSHD
 Linh Van Nguyen         Team Assistant                              EASHD
 Chandra Chakravarthi    Program Assistant                           EASHD
 Van Minh Nguyen         Senior Public Finance Specialist            EASPR
 Behdad M. H. Nowroozi   Sr Financial Management Specialist          EAPFM Financial Management
 Hung Kim Phung          Senior Finance Officer                      CTRFC
Christopher Shaw         Lead Education Specialist                   EASHD
Grayson Clark            Economist/Consultant
James Cobbe              Economist/Consultant
Ekta Kothari             Economist/Consultant
Peter Moock              Economist/Consultant
Non World Bank staff     Agency
Alfred Fickers           Royal Embassy of Belgium
Carlos Lietar            Royal Embassy of Belgium
Ngo Thu Huong            Royal Embassy of Belgium
Peter Van Acker          Royal Embassy of Belgium
                         Canadian International Development
Brian Allemekinders
                         Agency (CIDA)
Camille Baudot           CIDA
Nora Fyles               CIDA
Marvin Lamoreux          CIDA
Le Anh Thao              CIDA
Blanka Pelz              CIDA
                         Department for International Development,
Nguyen Huu Hieu
                         UK (DFID)
Steve Passingham         DFID


                                            63
Vo Thanh Son            DFID
Corinne Boulet          European Commission
Jos Jonkers             European Commission
Anne Claire Leon        European Commission
Nguyen Thi Lam Giang    European Commission
Anouk Van Neck          European Commission
                        New Zealand Agency for International
Michael Ward
                        Development
Supervision/ICR
Emanuela Di Gropello    Senior Human Development Economist     EASHD Task Team Leader
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo   Senior Procurement Specialist          EAPPR
Carol Chen Ball         Senior Operations Officer              EASHE
Hung Viet Le            Sr Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan     Financial Management Specialist        EAPFM
Jennifer K. Thomson     Sr Financial Management Specialist     OPCFM
An Thi My Tran          Education Specialist                   EASHE
Binh Thanh Vu           Sr Education Specialist                EASHE
Jeffrey Waite           Lead Education Specialist              MNSHE
Mai Thi Thanh           Sr. Education Specialist               EASHD
Cung Van Pham           Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO
Rosario Aristorenas     Program Assistant                      EASHD
Nguyet Minh Nguyen      Team Assistant                         EACVF
Cesar Palma Banzon      Extended Term Temporary                EASHD
Suzana Campos Augusto   Consultant                             EASHD
Non World Bank Staff    Agency
Bridget Crumpton        DFID
Brian Allemekinders     CIDA
Le Anh Thao             CIDA
Anouk Van Neck          European Commission
Carlos Lietar           Belgium
Carlton Aslett          Belgium
Ngo Thu Huong           Belgium

John Durston            New Zealand Agency for International
                        Development
Myra Harrison           New Zealand Agency for International
                        Development
Maggie Lowe             New Zealand Agency for International
                        Development




                                          64
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                   30                        113.04
  FY05                                   65                        244.59
  FY06                                                               0.57
  FY07                                                               0.00
  FY08                                                               0.00
                          Total:         95                        357.63
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                               0.00
  FY05                                                               0.00
  FY06                                  35                          88.98
  FY07                                  26                          66.42
  FY08                                  17                          64.26
  FY09                                  27                         103.08
                          Total:       105                         322.74




                                       65
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results [Not Applicable]




                                         66
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results [Not Applicable]




                                      67
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR36

1.         Analysis of TBS-EFA Objectives, Design and Implementation

Overall the TBS-EFA is widely considered to be successful in its contribution to achieving
the E-NTP and EFA objectives set by the SRV. Achievements are supported generally by
progressively positive statistics in the primary education sub-sector and there is also evidence
of a flow-on effect in increased enrolment in both lower secondary and upper secondary
education. The design of multi-donor assistance for targeted budget support was the first of
its kind for education in Vietnam. TBS can therefore be viewed as an initiative that is
successful despite an honest recognition of deficiencies. These include some minor
limitations in its design, some underestimation of complexities involved, some unevenness in
implementation, and some inadequacies in management. These successes and shortcomings
have been reported and, to an extent, analysed elsewhere (for example: JAR and JSAR
missions, Aide Memoire, audit reports) and MoET will not detail them here. Lessons have
been learned and knowledge and capability enhanced that will strengthen both ongoing E-
NTP objectives and any future TBS programs.

TBS-EFA as a whole and specific assistance from the World Bank are comparatively small
even though vitally important part of the total budget for education in Vietnam. In the
implementation of the E-NTP, it is not possible to identify specifically in terms of budget
inputs, program activities, or results, the separate contributions from individual donors or
from TBS-EFA. This was not intended and was not a design element. However some
particular activities supporting E-NTP objectives, such as training in the provinces and the
development of procedures and manuals may be easily identified with TBS-EFA. It is valid
to observe, as noted by the October 2009 Evaluation Mission funded by the EC, that in
decentralized implementation of most E-NTP activities, there has been little or no identity
given to TBS-EFA and donor support.
TBS-EFA was designed to contribute towards achieving EFA objectives by providing
targeted budgetary support through the E-NTP disbursement channel. In response to
Government request, priority was given to the improvement of educational outcomes in basic
education. More specifically, the program supported progress by the SRV towards the
improvement of educational outcomes through a package of investments with two design
components: to enhance the quality of education in classrooms and to strengthen the
administration of the education system. During TBS-EFA implementation which covers all
provinces, the share of schools achieving Fundamental School Quality Levels (FSQL) has
increased. As schools below FSQL often serve poorer communities, the beneficiary group
contains a higher proportion of poor children and ethnic minorities than elsewhere in the
nation.
The program was designed and implemented nationwide with a focus on five of the seven
existing education NTP sub-components:
    · Sub-component I: Illiteracy elimination, consolidation of Universal Primary Education
        (UPE) and achievement of Universal Lower Secondary Education.
    · Sub-component 2: Renovation of the curriculum and textbooks/teaching methods.
    · Sub-component 4: Upgrading infrastructure of Teacher Training Institutions and
        teacher qualifications.


36
     Summary of the Borrower Completion Report prepared by the MoET-Department of Planning and Finance.

                                                     68
   ·   Sub-component 5: Support for the education of ethnic minorities and disadvantaged
       regions.
   ·   Sub-component 6: Infrastructure development.

The design of TBS-EFA consists of two major components as follows:
   · Component 1 was designed to support the implementation of FSQL standards and
       improved educational outcomes by support for E-NTP objectives and specifically the
       five sub-components listed above.
   · Component 2 was designed to strengthen institutional capacity to administer and
       implement the E-NTP.

A common observation based on TBS-EFA experience to date and recognizing some
implementation challenges relates to the complexity of the program linked to available
management capacity to guide its implementation. The current E-NTP with TBS support is
being implemented in a period following extensive decentralization to sub-national levels of
many public administration functions. Some procedures are new and changing and all of the
staff to transact them are not yet fully trained and embedded. Provincial and district units
responsible for TBS-EFA implementation and reporting do not have direct links to central
entities. While a central ministry such as MoET has certain oversight of policy and quality
issues, it has no authority over management responsibility in the provinces. A key example is
the allocation, disbursement, and management of the education budget which is primarily a
matter for the People's Committee in the provinces. In summary the current operating
situation is more complex than donors, SRV agencies, and the Project Appraisal Document
could have fully envisaged in 2005.

Reliable evidence shows that educational outcomes in primary education have generally
improved in Vietnam during the lifespan of TBS-EFA. The latest figures confirm positive
trends: the net enrolment rates for primary education are trending higher as are Grade 5
learning outcomes in Vietnamese. There appears to be a slight increase in repetition in Year 2
to Year 3. FSQL is progressing but national targets may not be reached on time. These
assessments reported to stakeholders at the JAR in October 2009 relate to E-NTP and total
system factors. However, they highlight the emphasis that TBS is placing on the need for
improved M&E in educational and management operations in implementing Component 2.

MoET appreciates that continuing efforts to strengthen management capacity at central and
other levels is a prerequisite to achieving current and improved E-NTP objectives. This is
central to Component 2 of TBS-EFA and one of a number of lessons learned to which
operational adjustments have been made. Training and human resource development initially
in the key areas of financial management, audit and procurement has been a focus of
workshop activities by the former BCEP team that was integrated with TBS during 2009. A
different training methodology is being followed that aims to improve educational
administrators in provincial and district units. It is also intended to utilize and enhance
provincial institutions and so carry forward management-training activities after the
completion of TBS-EFA. This focused training should assist in dealing with issues such as
delays leading to under-spending of budgets within a given financial year, and slow or
incomplete reporting of E-NTP finances. In both design and operational terms, it seems with
the benefit of experience that Component 2 of TBS-EFA should have been begun before
Component 1 or at the least concurrently with it. Building capacity earlier in the program
through the style of activities in Component 2 could arguably have reduced some of the
problems encountered in implementing Component 1.


                                             69
During 2009 implementation of key elements in the approved TBS-EFA Workplan and
Budget has been somewhat restricted by difficulties and delays experienced in the recruitment
of national and international consultants and in management of contracts to engage these
experts. The need for action has been noted in the Aide Memoire produced after JSAR and
JAR missions. MoET has sought to recruit international experts through the two-stage
process of calling for expressions of interest and then selecting companies to bid
competitively through the preparation of proposals to supply the consultants. SRV
regulations, aimed at ensuring probity, require formal procedures and sign-off at high levels.
Given the multiple commitments of senior government officers, such formalities had
compounded the process. It is now expected that the hiring of all national consultants will be
finalized in the final quarter of 2009 and international consultants will be contracted early for
service early in 2010. This issue could be reviewed in the design of any future TBS type
programs. Among models for consideration are early specific management support to a
central ministry or establishment of a small Project Management Unit (PMU), to allow
prompt support and execution of staffing and other critical TBS matters.

One significant matter affecting E-NTP ­ and not one for which either the problem or its
solution lies exclusively with TBS-EFA or any single project ­ is that of a modern and
efficient system data collection, management and utilization. A continuing need is for an
integrated approach to an EMIS that will serve the needs of E-NTP and of central and sub-
national education entities. Positive steps were taken by MoET through its work with
specialized projects and concerned donors that led to the promulgation in August 2009 of an
EMIS Roadmap. This Roadmap sets out a pathway for the strengthening of existing systems
and the development of a consistent EMIS that can serve, among other needs, enhanced
policy development and financial management. Since August 2009, a Ministerial EMIS
Committee has been established and the initial Roadmap revised. Several projects including
TBS are collaborating to support this high priority task. As a possible lesson learned, some
observers would contend attention to EMIS should have been an earlier priority because of its
importance not only within MoET and its linked units like DoET and BoET, but also in
relation to concerned ministries such as State Treasury and MoF.

2.    Assessment of World Bank's Performance
Interactions between the World Bank and the MoET and other SRV ministries and agencies
concerned with the loan have been uniformly balanced and productive and could be rated as
positive overall. The World Bank's PAD for TBS-EFA is a primary document and one which
has been used by other donor partners. This PAD is a foundation underpinning the MOU
signed in 2005. Staff of the WB have been consistent supporters, useful advisers and, on
occasion, relevant critics in helping TBS to maintain its momentum and sense of direction in
strengthening EFA.

TBS-I and TBS-II are an integral and significant part of the E-NTP supporting Vietnam's
progress towards achieving EFA and the MDG. Contributions by the WB and other
development partners to TBS funds become indistinguishable in implementation of the E-
NTP. Analysis of the contribution made by the World Bank and other partners to the five E-
NTP Sub-components directly assisted by TBS is measured by the more comprehensive
record of national progress towards EFA in other sections of this report. Although progress in
the short term may sometimes be seen as uneven in certain specifics, WB assistance has been
positive and has helped the SRV through MoET to focus efforts on EFA and to achieve
results that are enviable among comparable nations.



                                               70
Difficulties experienced by MoET in meeting all requirements envisaged in the MOU relate
to a range of factors including, as some key examples: at national level, a complex
institutional framework involving inter-ministerial issues not always subject to the policy
direction or management of a single ministry; concurrent with the implementation of TBS and
E-NTP a relatively successful decentralization to sub-national levels of governance, financial
allocations and sector management in the setting of locally determined priorities that
highlights issues in central/provincial relationships; an underestimated lack of capacity to
monitor and report educational and financial results linked to E-NTP among other programs.
The flexible and responsive approach of WB and associated donors has assisted MoET and
TBS to identify these and other weaknesses and to plan and work towards capacity building to
meet identified challenges.

Vietnamese society is extremely dynamic and its educational indicators are changing quickly.
Both are positive developments. Some of the difficulties that MoET has faced in managing
TBS come, on the one hand, from this rapid rate of change in many areas, matched on the
other hand by continuing levels of systemic rigidity as complex organizations like ministries
seek to adapt. It would be fair to observe that these two factors may not have been fully
appreciated by the WB and other donors when, in 2005, the PAD and the MOU were
finalized. Initially these incomplete understandings about MoET and underestimating
implementation in a decentralized context may have resulted, at the operational level, in
unrealistic expectations about TBS, and its capacities to manage or influence activities at the
provincial, district and other levels.

The twice-yearly TBS-EFA review missions known as Joint Annual Review and Joint Semi-
Annual Review involved the four concerned SRV ministries and the seven donor supporters.
Participants receive reports on E-NTP and TBS activities and results and the World Bank
continues to be a leader in these JAR/JSAR in recognizing both changed conditions for
implementation as well as TBS achievements and shortcomings. At the conclusion of each
review mission, an Aide Memoire is drafted by donors and signed off by MoET. It is
arguable that this action together with the issuance of the Joint Circular No. 125 of 2008
(Governing the Management and Utilization of E-NTP Funds till 2010) is, at the least, in
parallel with and possibly qualifies parts of the MOU of 2005. Any perceived change in
focus or activities that might vary from the MOU is probably in accord with subsequently
agreed and/or legislated developments affecting TBS that the SRV and donors have assented
to. The World Bank has also shown flexibility in this regard. At the same time, the World
Bank with other donors has been properly concerned to improve the quality of procurement
and audit procedures and of underlying financial management practices. This has resulted in
a rigorous focus on needed capacity building for financial management especially at
provincial level, and the development of new procedures and manuals, progressively leading
to strengthened practice and improvements in reporting.
3.      Assessment of MoET's Performance
Many of the points that can be made in this section have been referred to or implied in other
parts of this report; and to restate them all should be unnecessary. MoET has always provided
the highest level of support to E-NTP and TBS-EFA within its capability. Having regard for
the complexity of this form of development assistance, its newness to education in Vietnam as
a support modality involving donors, other ministries and projects, and the different
management and reporting requirements, overall the TBS undertaking has been both
successful and it has provided a number of learning experiences. The lessons learned are not
only for MoET to note, but are likely to have also been of benefit to other concerned
ministries and to associated sub-national entities in the provinces and districts.


                                              71
Progressively the management and administration of E-NTP and TBS have achieved results
in line with objectives for EFA when compared with previous periods, either annually or in
five-year plans; and the general educational outcomes have been referred to elsewhere in this
report. Specifically E-NTP 2008 was implemented in a timely fashion which provided a basis
for ongoing progress in implementation of objectives, and in meeting targets for the total
period 2006-2010. The E-NTP capital source has been well utilized in the planned ways and
this will continue to make contributions to stabilize and develop EFA goals. There has been
high level SRV support to MoET in its implementation activities underpinning E-NTP and
TBS-EFA and this is seen in the following examples of legislation and regulations. E-NTP is
being implemented on the basis of Decision No. 42/2002/Q -TTg dated 19/3/2002 and
Decision 07/2008/Q -TTg dated 10/01/2008 of the Prime Minister and the Joint Circular No.
125/2008/TTLT-BTC-BGD& T dated 22/12/2008 of Ministry of Finance (MoF) and
Ministry of Education and Training. Decision No. 42/2002/Q -TTg (of the Prime Minister
dated 19/3/2002) shows the following good points, broader than education but in part a
development associated with E-NTP (and implicitly TBS-EFA): (i) Provinces are to be active
in budget allocation in order to execute projects in provincial areas; (ii) On the basis of actual
socio-economic conditions in a region, each locality is to build a mechanism to mobilize more
resources to implement each program/project; and (iii) In planning and implementing a
number of programs or projects, localities can become active in integrating targeted programs
within local areas.
MoET in collaboration with other ministries and provincial and district units has steadily and
consistently provided support and encouragement for new and improved planning and
financial management practices. Some details of the complex planning and budget process
are given to illustrate how MoET has changed and expanded through E-NTP and TBS-EFA
activity in the period of decentralization. Based on requirements for implementing tasks in E-
NTP, MoET develops an annual spending forecast for E-NTP which it sends to the Ministry
of Planning and Investment and MoF. After the national budget is determined, MoF issues a
budget allocation decision, details of which are as follows: (i) to MoET, to be applied to units
directly under the control of MoET; (ii) to other ministries, to be applied to those which
control training institutions with functions within E-NTP; to each province, a total spending
forecast for all NTP including E-NTP. The allocation and integration of E-NTP is an area of
responsibility of Provincial People's Committees.
In operational fact, the roles of DoETs in different provinces may vary in terms of
responsibility for the planning, building, expenditure allocation, and managing of E-NTP
implementation activities; and each adds to management complexity in MoET's relationships.
There are three commonly used models for the differences in responsibilities exercised by a
DoET: (i) The Provincial People's Committee assigns the provincial Department of Planning
and Investment leadership in the E-NTP budget allocation and the DoET may be assigned to
directly manage the spending of Project Consolidation of universal primary education,
achievement of universal lower secondary and support to the universal upper secondary
education; (ii) the DoET is assigned to cooperate with provincial DPIs to build the E-NTP
budget allocation forecast for each project, and then to submit it to Provincial People's
Committee for approval; and (iii) the DoET is assigned by the Provincial People's Committee
to lead in the E-NTP budget allocation.
There are weaknesses, challenges, and opportunities for further improvement associated with
E-NTP and the support TBS has given. Many of these have been documented in reports to
donors and stakeholders. The mechanism for E-NTP management in the provinces is not
entirely clear, there is no standard pattern or general template to guide operations, and so
make more effective interactions with central ministries. Although Joint Circular No.125 of
2008 specifies "to assign to MoET leadership in cooperation...", many provinces have not


                                               72
been assigned this responsibility. In some cases a DoET may not be active while in others the
DoET does not seek to undertake the task. There is also need to improve the activity of
internal inspection of units responsible for implementing NTPs in the provinces. Financial
reporting and implementation appraisal has not received enough attention, and therefore
report quality is not high, and does not strictly follow regulations. The situation is improving
and the use of manuals plus planned training activities will strengthen personnel and
procedures.
Not all provinces are following new regulations and procedures in the same way. This is
reflected in the variation in reporting to the E-NTP administrator. Consequently, this
unevenness creates difficulties in synthesizing and assessing E-NTP implementation at the
sub-sector, the sector, and national levels; and the deficiency is seen at the central point of
reporting in MoET but does not originate there. It is highlighted most in financial and audit
reports. There is a need to learn from experience and to include standard but flexible
templates to be used in building up report information in a generally consistent format.
Omissions and any mistakes can be more easily detected. In part, this relates to the need for
an integrated EMIS that includes personnel and finance data. During 2009, TBS-EFA has
been working on template design to address this need.
Because of the separation between the planning and setting of policy objectives for a national
program like E-NTP and TBS-EFA and the implementation with the budget disbursement and
management in the provinces, program administration at the centre may appear to be less
effective than it is. Another weakness is linked to the allocation of budget funds at a gross
level nationally with prioritization and funding determined at the provincial level. Sometimes
the involvement of several levels of government tends to delay E-NTP funding allocations
and implementation, causing difficulties in attaining objectives in set time frames. Within a
province, the selection of E-NTP funded projects or activities may be scattered and
unfocussed leading sometimes to half completed construction works and other tasks that fail
to meet a planned deadline. The capacity of MoET or another central ministry to manage and
influence these issues is limited and in the design of another TBS this could be taken into
account.
During recent years, E-NTP implementation with TBS-EFA support has achieved positive
results, completed some remarkable developments in facilities and conditions, and supported
pedagogical and curriculum improvements, all of which have enhanced the quality of
education in Vietnam. During the implementation of TBS-EFA, MoET has identified the
following areas for improvement as lessons learned: (i) attempt to have MPI and MoF
annually assign the gross budget forecast and detailed expenditure according to each project
in E-NTP for each locality; (ii) MoET to annually assign tasks with detailed performance
indicators to be completed by each province in each year; (iii) as provided by regulation,
assign to each DoET the key role in allocating E-NTP expenditure of each province; (iv)
ensure compliance with current regulations by each province, particularly in performing
periodic reporting; (v) for the provinces not following regulations in reporting and other
important matters, consider termination of their E-NTP allocation; (vi) assist and support
improved reporting through the development and training in the use of templates, particularly
relating to Joint Circular 125 of 2008; (vii) provide needs based training in M&E in both
general and specific areas of educational management; and (viii) undertake a sample study of
effective E-NTP management in different regions to create a flexible basis for training and
socialization nationwide, and reach the higher efficiency in E-NTP implementation.

4.     Sustainability of TBS-EFA Objectives




                                              73
Primary evidence for sustainability until 2010 may be found in three major areas that relate to
E-NTP and also TBS activities: Firstly, the overall improvement in key primary education
indicators (not exclusively linked to TBS ­EFA) including rates for participation, drop-out,
repetition, etc, curriculum revisions linked to the widespread provision of textbooks
particularly to students of poorer families, and improvements to classrooms, other school
infrastructure and teaching training ­ followed by increasing enrolments in secondary
education ­ overall, a growing demand for education; secondly, the progressive increase in
the proportion of state funds allocated to the education sector ­ generally calculated around
20% ­ overall, a dedicated policy commitment to education from the national budget; and
thirdly, the endorsement by JSAR held in April 2009 of a detailed and costed Workplan and
Budget for TBS-EFA until closure at 31 December 2010 and its acceptance by MoET. A copy
of the Workplan and Budget is attached as Annex No. 1 to the original Borrower's Report.

Further evidence indicative of sustainability may be seen in the following documents and
actions fostered by MoET through TBS. The inter-ministerial Joint Circular No 125 of 2008
which was developed over a period of several years through the efforts of the concerned
ministries and donors including a high level involvement by the World Bank. It is regarded a
significant joint achievement in giving agreed policy, regulatory, and management direction
and/or refinement to TBS and E-NTP operations. It is evident that the effects of this Joint
Circular and of other support for improved financial management cannot be seen in the 2008
audit and financial reports. Preparations for an update and revision of this Joint Circular
applicable to the next E-NTP period, 2011- 2015, have already begun with initial
consideration at a series of national TBS workshops held in October 2009. It can be noted
that just as the E-NTP covers all levels of education from pre-school to higher education,
the Joint Circular also covers all levels of education. Arguably, support for TBS has
broadened to include a more integrated perspective from primary through to lower secondary
and even upper secondary education. This flexibility recognizes the pipeline enrolment effect
flowing upwards from focused efforts to achieve universal primary education and the need to
strengthen lower and upper secondary education.
To add resources to needed capacity building, particularly in the decentralized context, the
former BCEP with its successful training approach and methodology was integrated with TBS
from October 2009. A comprehensive yet flexible training schedule for the period from 1
October 2009 to 31 December 2010 was presented to JAR in October 2009 and endorsed.
Already two series of national workshops dealing with key issues such as planning, joint
circular revision, audit requirements have been held during October and November. A series
on improved procurement procedures is to be implemented in December 2009. These
contributions to sustaining new and reformed practices and procedures in education
management will be further strengthened with the technical assistance and associated training
linked to inputs by national and international consultants.

5.     Ongoing E-NTP Implementation and Forward Planning

As part of MoET's commitment to support sustainability for achievements to date, there is an
ongoing process of reviewing the current E-NTP and of discussing and formulating the next
E-NTP for the period 2011-2015. Initial planning for the next E-NTP has also been the
subject of two national workshops during 2009.
In reviewing some of the difficulties and obstacles encountered during implementation,
respondents have initially reported that because of ever increasing demand for education, E-
NTP 2006-2010 has not always met provincial requirements, for instance, in such areas as:
widely available kindergarten education for 5 year old children; the quality of foreign


                                              74
language teaching; and provision of education of talented and gifted students. Other
observations include: the financial management capacity of investors in education who are
beneficiaries of NTP is still low; M&E for E-NTP overall has not yet received sufficient
attention, and specifically the M&E capacity of education managers is still limited and
requires uppgrading; planning for E-NTP budget utilisation in the provinces faces the
difficulty of a lack of capacity for accurate budget allocation for the medium term; some
provinces report a loosening of direct management control as a result of decentralisation to
BoETs, communes and schools; actual allocations of funds are sometimes much less than
proposed budgets (as much as 30% less).

Provincial participants at 2009 national workshops and other consultations were asked to
assess lessons learned from the policy and practice of implementing E-NTP 2006-2010 and to
suggest initial guidelines for improvement. Their responses included the following
observations: too many units lead in managing E-NTP causing difficulties in the education
sector, especially with M&E functions and in bridging E-NTP to match provincial objectives;
there should be a more uniform management responsibility for all provinces; many confirmed
DoETs are best situated to exercise management over E-NTP including planning, resource
allocation, M&E, and report coordination.

Other suggested changes were that mechanisms should allow funds transfer between E-NTP
sub-components particularly where some were under-spending and others needed additional
funds. Some suggested this was a possible resource allocation mis-match that came from
unrealistic planning as well as from difficulty in responding to rapid changes in the external
environment, with results that affected E-NTP objectives; and that perhaps a resource
allocation cycle of five years would assist localities to meet their objectives. Funding for
M&E activities should be provided in budgets as well as expenditure norms for
implementation; and if an education sector entity lacked M&E performance capacity, it
should be possible to hire external consultants based on a separate budget. To allow
completion of a specific capital investment to meet planned provincial objectives, it was
suggested that E-NTP resources might be focused, within an annual cycle, on one sub-
component.

Provincial participants in the E-NTP review and planning process gave the following
unranked responses as a random assessment of ongoing needs and suggested new activities:
current E-NTP sub-components to be maintained but at different levels according to the
situation in different provinces; the upgrading for teachers sub-component to include
upgrading for managers with training and qualifications to a standard level; a sub-component
of universal secondary education is needed to include as content drop-out prevention; the
existing sub-component for education of ethnic minorities and disadvantaged regions needs
more regions to be added including islands and areas adjacent to islands; and the sub-
component for building boarding schools (pursuant to Circular 44 of MOF and Joint Circular
125) need to be changed to allow new construction as well as extensions and renovations; and
continue to maintain the sub-component for strengthening vocational training capacity. In
addition, to meet development requirements of the education sector in the next period,
participants suggested the following additional sub-components may also be needed: support
for universal kindergarten education for 5 year olds; establishment of provincial gifted
schools to foster talent; integration of education for disabled children; training and upgrading
teachers in foreign languages; strengthening vocational training capacity in professional
secondary education.



                                              75
To accomplish even some of these suggested needs and objectives, respondents identified
requirements and conditions that would advance education under E-NTP 2011-2015. The
following suggestions built on existing procedures and an evaluation of their usefulness in
implementing the current E-NTP: a Joint Circular to guide NTP implementation and
administration; improved management capacity to include planning, financial management
and M&E for staff in charge in the provinces; planning based on a output orientation and the
VANPRO model introduced by the former BCEP; overcome slow disbursement rate by
strengthening financial management capacity of both managers and beneficiaries and link to
performance based M&E; raise importance of M&E by making procedures and performance
requirements clear at the provincial level and specifically at DoET and BoET levels to help
localities in fully implementing E-NTP; scale up utilizing common or interactive software to
integrate projects and programs within education sector.

In the last quarter of 2009 MoET made additional commitments to sustainability by
progressive planning procedures to build a new E-NTP for the period 2011-2015. This action
is being taken to contribute to implementation of Resolution No. 35/2009/QH12 of National
Assembly Meeting Session XII dated 19/6/2009. This concerns a review and formulation of
policies and orientations to strengthen education and training mechanisms for the period
2011-2015 and the overall education and training strategy 2010-2020.

6.     Financial Statements for 2008

Manuals for financial management and for procurement have been prepared and as they are
used, these manuals will be revised and adapted to meet new and changed regulations.
Training has been undertaken in these key areas, including some not directly sponsored by
TBS. For example, further training activities are scheduled particularly in relation to focused
inputs linked to the TBS Workplan that relate to the work of international consultants and
specialist national consultants. Understandably, the effect of this training will not become
evident until the audit and financial reports for 2009 are completed. It is expected that
noticeable improvements in financial management, procurement, and auditing will be
apparent in 2009 and 2010 with associated positive reports.

A copy of the E-NTP 2008 Financial Report in Excel format is attached as Annex No 2 to the
original Borrower's Report. This report was also presented to the JAR mission in October
2009.

7.     Audit Status of TBS-EFA

In general, capacity for M&E in all areas of education and of management in Vietnam is not
yet as well developed as needed for a Ministry engaged on modernization. This deficiency is
acknowledged by inclusion in the TBS-EFA Workplan of significant activities to strengthen
M&E capacity. Until 2009, a lack of capacity may be seen in the area of financial
management and reporting at DoET and BoET levels when training in new procedures and
requirements has not always kept pace with the decentralization of public administration
functions. For instance, until recently E-NTP financial reports from provincial authorities
were submitted late or not at all. However, for the JAR in October 2009 there was a marked
improvement with 50 of 63 provinces submitting reports on time compared with 29 received
in April 2009.




                                              76
The division of responsibilities for E-NTP financial management and reporting among
concerned entities at the sub-national level such as MoET, State Treasury, and MoF is
progressively becoming clearer. Improvement in operations follow increased understanding
from the issuance of guidelines such as Joint Circular 125 of December 2008, with its
specification of duties, accounts, and financial management procedures, and, during 2009,
from TBS training workshops in new financial management practices, audit requirements, and
procurement procedures.

It would seem that some of the financial management risks and the assessment of M&E
capacity that accompanied rapid decentralization might have been underestimated when the
TBS-EFA was planned. But these factors are intrinsic to the impressive rate of change and
the development surge that characterizes progress in Vietnam and its education system in the
past decade. MoET is increasingly confident that evidence of strengthened capacity and
improved performance will be seen in financial reports and audits from 2009 onwards. It is
understood that although these sub-national units are not managed by MoET, the focus of
actual capacity in financial management for E-NTP, which is attributed to MoET, is revealed
in the audit of provincial financial and procurement reports.

In previous years, MoET acknowledges that there have been some particular problems in
achieving timely and complete E-NTP audit reports. This had resulted in the auditors issuing
qualified reports, for example, in 2007 but based on visits to 13 provinces/cities, a sample
stated by the auditors as "just too small." For the 2007 audit report, it can be noted that 98%
of funds was reportedly used correctly. However, the auditors recorded, among other
shortcomings, that there were delays and inaccuracies in reporting and in disbursements
particularly by the State Treasury. In 2009, three E-NTP audit reports for 2008 prepared by
Deloitte Vietnam were received by MoET and were also presented to concerned ministries
and donors at the JAR held in October 2009. The auditors' initial report of "adverse" was
based on visits to 16 provinces/cities, later extended by 3 more after discovering "mis-
statements." Without pursuing the detail, MoET notes that "ineligible disbursements" had
declined in 2008 from 2% in 2007 to "approximately 1.12% of the total sample and
approximately 0.12% of expenditures" in the sample 19 provinces/cities. In addition to
critical findings, the auditors made a number of positive statements about improved financial
management and MoET considers improvements will continue.

Since receiving the initial adverse report from the auditors, a series of four meetings has been
held involving variously the DPF of MoET, State Treasury and the appointed auditors,
Deloitte Vietnam. The principal issue of concern causing the currently adverse audit report
seems to focus on the reporting mode rather than on financial management or accounting
practice. State Treasury has agreed to send a letter to State Treasury offices in all provinces
requesting that the format of each financial report be revised and resubmitted. There is an
implication that the audit and report may have been based on less than complete information.
The auditors, Deloitte Vietnam concur with the action being taken and have said that if
necessary they would visit the provinces again to check information. The situation seems to
typify a system and procedures that are in transition with some elements of inadequacy
including issues relating to communication about the preferred documentation and format.
Subsequent developments include the issuance by Deloitte Vietnam of a draft final audit
report that has been revised to become a "qualified opinion" for E-NTP financial reports for
2008. MoET has to review the auditor's written reports in consultation, if necessary, with
linked ministries before giving a response to Deloitte. So the final audit report will at least be
"qualified" or, after discussions, may be upgraded further. Another recent positive


                                               77
development concerns capacity building for decentralized functions not only in MoET and its
related provincial entities. In early December 2009, State Treasury is collaborating with TBS
in organizing a series of training workshops to give guidance and further strengthen
implementation of management and payment procedures in E-NTP. This form of training
cooperation on a topic that has caused comment from the auditors will build capacity for
sustainable decentralization of financial management and reporting.




                                             78
Annex 8. Joint Partners External Evaluation37

                                            Executive Summary

1.1 Introduction

Vietnam's poverty reduction and economic growth over the last 15 years have been described as:
"one of the most spectacular success stories in economic development".

Due to carefully implemented economic reforms and consistent economic management, the
annual real growth rate of Gross Domestic Product has averaged around 7.5% and the rate of
poverty has fallen from around 70% to below 20%, with widespread improvements in the lives
of Vietnamese citizens and with predictions that the poverty rate could fall as low as 10% within
the next two or three years.

Vietnam continues to make impressive gains in access to education at all levels, with net
enrolments rates reaching 94.6% for primary, 90.1% for lower secondary, and 63% for upper
secondary (data for school year ended in 2004), and with primary school completion rates now
exceeding 90%. However, significant challenges remain, including that barriers to education are
concentrated in specific poorer regions of Vietnam, where schooling conditions are significantly
harder due to lack of adequate human resources, prevalence of vernacular languages, high
poverty incidence, lack of adequate financial resources, low resource mobilization ability at the
local level and the existence of smaller remote communities in mountainous areas.

In Vietnam, the primary and secondary education system is characterized by a dual, vertically
and geographically divided structure. The overall direction and control are in the hands of the
People's Committees, while the daily management, administration and delivery of instruction are
in the hands of the Ministry of Education and Training. The Ministry of Finance has overall
responsibility for recurrent expenditure, while responsibility for capital expenditure lies with the
Ministry of Planning and Investment. The country has achieved Universalisation of Primary
Education during 2003/ 2004. It is planned that Universalisation of Lower Secondary Education
will be achieved during 2010.

1.2     The SPSP TBS-EFA Programme
The SPSP programme of TBS EFA is a multi-donor programme co-financed by the European
Commission and by Belgium, Canada, Spain, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and
International Development Association (IDA), together known as the TBS partners.

The programme's development objective is to assist the Government of Vietnam in the
implementation of its National Education for All Plan through sector budget support for selected
sub-components of the E-NTP designed to enhance the quality of basic education, and through

37
  Final Evaluation of Sector Policy Support Program in Education (Targeted Budget Support for Education For All)
(2009).




                                                        79
strengthening of the administration of the E-NTP. During the life of the programme, the share of
schools achieving Fundamental School Quality Levels, a minimum standard of school quality,
will increase. In addition, the programme will also promote an overarching policy framework in
education finance, planning and governance that will act as an enabling environment for
improved service delivery.

There are two programme components. Component 1 strives to accelerate implementation of
FSQL standards by channelling sector budget support (SBS) to five priority spending areas in the
E-NTP. TBS EFA priority spending areas in the E-NTP are:

      a) Illiteracy elimination, consolidation of Universal Primary Education and achievement of
         Universal Lower Secondary Education;
      b) Renovation of the curriculum and textbooks/teaching methods;
      c) Upgrading infrastructure of Teacher Training Institutions and teacher qualifications;
      d) Support for the education of ethnic minorities and disadvantaged regions; and
      e) Infrastructure development.

The allocation of resources is based on an assessment of the financing gap needed to improve
educational outcomes and satisfy minimum standards of access and quality in disadvantaged
schools and districts, as defined by the FSQL regulation. The FSQL standards establish
minimum service delivery criteria in terms of physical infrastructure, instructional materials,
teaching staff qualifications, in-service professional development, school organisation and
management and school-community linkages. It includes a framework to enhance teacher
capacity, school leadership and community participation while promoting inclusive education for
traditionally disenfranchised communities.

Relevance: The E-NTP is relevant and consistent with the latest version of the Vietnam
Education Development Strategic Plan for 2008-2020 and primary elements of its National
Targeted Programme. The programme was designed under the previous ESDP 2001- 2010.
The programme was designed38 to:

      (i) support the Government's strategic approach to poverty reduction based on evidence-based
           needs analysis,
      (ii) aim to channel ODA more efficiently and reduce transaction costs through the utilization of
           a sector budget support aid delivery mechanism, and
      (iii) be identified as a transition from traditional projects to full budgetary support.

Effectiveness: During the TBS programme implementation 2006-2008, the educational outcomes
indicators have generally improved. However, by definition, it is not possible to attribute all or
any of the above effects directly or solely to the E-NTP.

Efficiency may be assessed in relation to each of the E-NTP budget sub-headings as follows:



38
     World Bank PAD: 2005.

                                                  80
        Illiteracy elimination, consolidation of Universal Primary Education and achievement of
        Universal Lower Secondary Education: There have been significant levels of resources
        applied to teacher retraining in programmes to support illiterates, textbooks and
        Vietnamese language teaching materials aimed at illiteracy elimination but despite
        relative progress by disadvantaged districts during the three years of the programme the
        remaining FSQL gap between them and the other groups of districts is still significant.

        Reform of curriculum and textbooks: Very high efficiency, targeted directly to poor
        children, since textbooks are provided free only to children from poor families, whereas
        less-poor families have to purchase textbooks.

        Teacher retraining and upgrading short courses: High efficiency, with courses provided
        on a "cascade" model, whereby either (i) a key teacher is sent for training from a school or
        district, and then he/she returns to impart the training to fellow teachers in the school or
        district, or (ii) a key teacher is sent out from the provincial level to impart training to
        teachers in a poorer district or school.

        Improvement of school infrastructure: Generally high efficiency, with the building of new
        classrooms in poorer schools and/or poorer districts, although it seems that at least some
        other poor schools and/or poor districts did not benefit.

        Improvement of pedagogical colleges and teacher training: Expenditures on these colleges
        are more questionable since these colleges continue to produce large numbers of new
        teachers but, due to the underlying demographic trends, each year, fewer new teachers are
        now required, and none at all in some provinces or districts, for the foreseeable future.

        E-NTP budget allocations from MoET to DoETs seem to have been broadly targeted to
        allocate increased resources to the poorer provinces, with the less-poor provinces receiving
        only relatively small allocations. There has been significant under-spending of the E-NTP
        budget each year, under all budget sub-headings. The quality of monitoring has not been
        very satisfactory and has been criticized by both senior management of MoET and by the
        donors. Previous evaluation reports have commented that MoET is significantly lacking in
        technical expertise relating to M & E and EMIS.

Impact: As a matter of principle, it is too early to be able to draw any conclusions at all at a
national level with regard to impact, since impact effects may typically not arise until after several
years have passed. However, the basic education sector has continued to develop successfully over
the lifetime of the programme, so that, at least, it can be said that there is a positive correlation. In
particular, the Government of Vietnam (GOV) is to be complimented on the fact that Vietnam has
come very close to achieving EFA, which is a significant achievement.

Sustainability: A major factor is the steadily rising demand for education, which is likely to
continue. Thus, access to primary schooling is likely to continue to increase. However, there
continue to be significant reservations with regard to the quality of the education provided.
Although the TBS funding as such will not continue, the GOV has committed itself to providing a



                                                   81
steadily increasing percentage of the state budget for the education sector (currently estimated at
just over 20%).

1.3   Fundamental School Quality Levels (FSQL)
The FSQL for Vietnam is defined by PEDC as follows:

   "Fundamental School Quality Level (FSQL) is the first step to achieve criteria of a national
   standard school of Vietnam. FSQL identifies a series of minimum necessary inputs for
   provision of high-quality education in primary school as well as expected outcomes of
   achieved schools. Schools achieving FSQL will have good initial step in the process of
   gaining criteria of a national standard school."

The FII (FSQL input index) consists of five components with altogether 29 indicators related to
the evaluation of school quality. Between the baseline year 2005 and 2008, the FSQL input
indicator has progressed on nationwide from 65 to 69.6 score. Differentiating the districts in
three big groups indicates that the disadvantaged districts progressed with plus 5.8 points more in
comparison to the averagely disadvantaged districts (plus 3.5) and the advantaged districts (plus
3.9). The resource allocation of all educational programs including the general education budget
benefited the poor districts more.

1.4 Quality of primary education
Quality of primary education. Measuring and monitoring the quality of education is a much
more difficult task than to measure the access to education. The TBS-EFA uses the student:
teacher ratio as a proxy indicator for quality of education and so far available the student
achievement in mathematics and Vietnamese as an outcome indicator for quality of education.

With regard to TBS EFA support in relation to the 5 TBS EFA priority spending areas in the E-
NTP:

       (a) Illiteracy elimination, consolidation of Universal Primary Education and
           achievement of Universal and Lower Secondary Education: The elimination of
           illiteracy on national scale is not monitored by MoET, also the E-NTP
           Implementation Report (JAR 2009) does not mention it. The general policy of MoET
           is to get children into the formal education system.

       (b) Renovation of the curriculum and textbooks/teaching methods: The renovation of the
           curriculum for the primary and lower secondary education cycle was completed or
           consolidated during the reference period (2006 ­ 08).

       (c) Upgrading infrastructure of Teacher Training Institutions and teacher qualifications:
           Nearly all teachers in basic education schools had received pre-service and/or in-
           service training. Applying this criteria nearly all teachers are rated as qualified (99%
           of the teachers have attained the 9+3 level).




                                                82
        (d) Support for the education of ethnic minorities and disadvantaged regions: Under E-
            NTP 2006-09, the second largest budget item (VND 2,900 billions) after school
            infrastructure has been provided for this target group.

        (e) Infrastructure development: Between 2006-08 under the school infrastructure sub-
            component of E-NTP, new construction and renovation of 13,367 classrooms for all
            subsectors but only 3,416 classrooms were built for primary education. For the
            improvement of primary education school facilities, this is a rather marginal impact.


1.5     Responses to Additional Points raised in the TOR
Problems and constraints. The donors seem to have found the implementation of this
programme quite frustrating, time-consuming and perhaps even exasperating, especially in view
of the difficulties in timely completion of the required conditions for the successive tranche
releases of funds. These problems were real and cannot be ignored. However, they should not
detract from the relative successes of the programme in largely leading to relatively high
efficiency in the provision of textbooks, classrooms and teacher training inputs to the poorer
schools in Vietnam. A major issue arising was the question of MoET progressively giving
greater priority to upper secondary schools.

The LogFrame, as attached to the EC's Financing Agreement, was of frankly poor quality
throughout and it is frankly disappointing that a more appropriate set of LogFrame Indicators
could not have been produced. Almost all the Indicators quoted were not directly applicable to
the E-NTP as such.39 In more detail:

        Outcome Indicators: It should have been realized that it would never have been possible
        to attribute "gross intake in grade 1", drop-out, repetition, etc., solely to the effects of this
        programme (quite apart from the problems arising from the lack of a satisfactory EMIS).
        Similarly, it should have been realized that for "student achievement in grade 5..." no up-
        to-date data exist during the lifetime of this programme.40

        Results Indicators: Data relating to FSQL have been considered above. For "educational
        quality assessments", it should have been realized that no up-to-date data exist for the
        lifetime of this programme. 41

Education Management. The quality and timeliness of annual progress and financial reports has
been a persistent problem and this aspect of the programme has not worked well. A review of
GOV plans for education has been undertaken by MoET.



39
   The World Bank is in disagreement with this statement. While there was room for developing the results
framework further, outcome indicators are by definition difficult to attribute to any single program, which does not
mean that they should not be monitored.
40
   The World Bank is in disagreement with this statement. There was a clear plan from the beginning to re-assess
grade 5 learning outcomes in 2007 to capture possible preliminary effects of the program.
41
   The World Bank is in disagreement with this statement. There was a clear plan from the beginning to re-assess
grade 5 learning outcomes in 2007 to capture possible preliminary effects of the program.

                                                        83
Education Finance. Performance was good at the national level, in that the target indicator given
("Education budget amounts to 18.6% of the national budget") has been far exceeded by GOV. It
was not so good at the local level, where families are still required to make substantial financial
payments to schools.

Contribution to developments in the basic education sector in general. This direct effect cannot
be identified precisely. However, the basic education sector has continued to develop
successfully during the lifetime of this programme.

Lessons learned. With any future programme, more care should be taken in advance to identify
the practical problems that will arise in practice, e.g., with regard to human resource constraints
and M. & E. limitations. However, harmonization by the donors did have some positive effects,
including, for example, this present combined final review on behalf of all the donors jointly, as
opposed to an onerous series of separate final reviews by each donor.

Changes relating to GOV policies. Apparently during this relatively short period, there have not
been any major changes in government policies, strategies or actions by GOV but in practice
MoET has continued the previously well established trend in expenditure decisions to gradually
give greater priority to upper secondary schools.

Contribution to the results identified at the outcome and impact levels:

   (i) educational outcomes generally good but cannot be attributed directly or solely to E-NTP,
   (ii) impact too early to be able to assess, and
   (iii) sustainability prospects good, especially in view of the high demand for education and
        the GOV commitment to a high level for the State education budget.

Overall relevance of the TBS EFA arrangements in view of the evolving country and sector
specific contexts. Generally good, with the design and objectives of this programme having a
high degree of relevance, and in view of the crucial importance of a successful education sector
for the economic and social development of Vietnam, but with the major concern relating to the
relatively low quality of the education provided in schools at all levels.

Efficiency of TBS EFA operations. Considering both the process and the relation between effects
(direct outputs, induced outputs and outcomes) and inputs there generally was high efficiency,
with the school classrooms, textbooks, and teacher training provided generally being targeted, as
far as it was possible to do so, to the poorer provinces and the poorer districts. Links with any
induced outputs (e.g., gender equalisation?, environmental impact?) are more difficult to identify
at this early stage.

Component II. Component II will continue up until 2010. The objectives of the Work Plan
2009-2010 as revised and updated are found to be in alignment with the identified needs of the
MoET. Four major streams of activity are being implemented: (i) support for improved E-NTP
management and administration; (ii) a comprehensive capacity building for E-NTP at provincial
and sub-provincial levels; (iii) provision of improved tools for E-NTP reporting, assessment,
analysis and evaluation; and (iv) streamlining governance and activities to improve inter-


                                                84
ministerial co-ordination. A further area covers the strengthening of the management
effectiveness and sustainability of the capacity building role of the Support Unit (SU). The
current Workplan is considered to be a good example covering new approaches.

The challenge for the MoET assisted by its Secretariat Unit (SU) is seen to be one of sustaining
recent momentum and the delivery of a comprehensive and ambitious training set of
programmes. The approved Action Plan relies on the appointment on international and national
technical assistance. The key factor for the success will be the early fielding of these experts.

The FEM observed generally that the necessary facilities and linkages are required to be put in
place if the SU is to be effective. In view of the imminent appointment of international
expertise, it will be necessary to make provision for Vietnamese back-up assistance to be
available either by assignment of personnel or on a sub-contracted basis to ensure optimum
communications and information transfer from these experts.

On the achievement of targets, there has been good progress reported with the integration
between both the BCEP team and training methodology in TBS and government institutes with
recruitment of PST and trainers in time, and the establishment of a "capacity building
administration facility", reporting directly to the Department of Planning and Finance executive
and responsible for delivery of all training. The integration of BCEP into TBS 2 has been one of
the key achievements to date of TBS 2. Component II has provided support for the extension of
VANPRO to District level planning; the training and coaching activities from the capacity
building strategy have commenced; and there has been engagement and collaboration with DPF
Statistics on the DFA and with the MoET Department of Ethnic Minorities on research on Ethnic
Minority education.

Public Finance Management. Budgeting, financial accounting, expenditure control systems and
annual financial statements steadily improved.42 The issuance of the Joint Circular (JC) and the
FM Manual should further contribute to these improvements, although they failed to address all
weaknesses. The Audit Reports included both positive and negative aspects.

Overall, the TBS was about as successful as it could be within the constraints of the sector and
the in-country situation within which it was operating. It is especially important that the design
of the programme was fully supportive of the objectives of the GOV's Education Strategy, and in
particular the National EFA Action Plan.

1.6        NTP mechanisms

The assumption made in the PAD that the NTP mechanism is a useful vehicle to enhance pro-poor
allocative efficiency and provide additional resources for the accomplishment of agreed upon
sectoral priorities was partially unrealistic. It did not allow for the practical implementation
problems that would arise.

The evolving focus of future expansion of the E-NTP away from EFA and primary and lower
secondary targets was not clear during the negotiation process leading up to the signing of the
42
     The World Bank notes that there is still room for significant improvement.

                                                           85
Memorandum of Understanding. It has become identified as a major issue in relation to its
suitability as a vehicle for continuing support by donors focusing on EFA and primary issues.

Poor reporting by government agencies has been identified as a major obstacle to improved
partnership between government and the donor partners. In retrospect, as previous evaluations
have commented, it seems clear that donors were initially over-ambitious and that insufficient
attention was paid to the significant problems that would arise subsequently, especially with regard
to audits, M. & E., reporting back, and sustainability.

Previous evaluation reports indicate that donors were surprised that there should have been such
under-spending but this could have been anticipated since it seems clear that this is endemic
throughout the public finances in Vietnam.43

The capacity building component under Component II was not as extensive as originally
envisaged but was increasingly prioritized from year 2008/9 with work on education planning
etc. It had been anticipated it should have had sector wide impact on management. This never
happened and its omission has impacted negatively. Nevertheless it becomes opportune to utilize
the funds earmarked for Component II to address milestones such as the introduction of the Joint
Circular to be studied along with the lessons learned from earlier capacity building/institutional
strengthening initiatives and for them to be incorporated into the MOET's design for this
component.

GOV officials emphasise that while the programme inputs under Component I were relatively
small in relation to the size of the total state budget for education and training the effects of the
(much smaller) Component II could well be much more significant for MOET.




43
     Source: "Ministries asked to release school funds", Vietnam News, 2 September 2009

                                                         86
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status reports and Implementation Status
Reports, 2004-2009

Ann Bartholomew, "Scoping Study to Design an Evaluation Framework for Targeted Budget
Support in Vietnam", June 2007.

Final Evaluation of Sector Policy Support Programme in Education (Targeted Budget Support
for Education For All), Vietnam, November 2009.

Project Appraisal Document, 31735-VN, 2005

Project Appraisal Document, 23846-VN, 2003.

Targeted Budget Support ­ Education for All Project, "Annual Review ­ Planning, Budget
Allocation and Monitoring of ENTP and Use of FSQL", September 2007.

Targeted Budget Support ­ Education for All Project, "The Utilization of Fundamental School
Quality Level for Planning and Budget Allocation for Educational National Targeted Programs:
The Case of Tien Giang and Tuyen Quang", September 19, 2007.

Targeted Budget Support ­ Education for All Project, "TBS-EFA Implementation Program Joint
Annual Review" 29 September to 8 October 2008.

Targeted Budget Support ­ Education for All Project, "TBS-EFA Implementation Program Joint
Annual Review" 21 September to 8 October 2009.

Targeted Budget Support ­ Education for All Project, "Planning, Standards and Quality
Thematic Working Group", updates 2008.

Targeted Budget Support ­ Education For All Project, "Financial Management and Procurement
Thematic Working Group", updates, 2008-2009.

Vietnam Ministry of Education and Training, "Building Capacity in Education Planning Project
(BECP), TF053232, Summary Report" Hanoi, Vietnam, September 2009.

Vietnam Ministry of Education and Training, Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children,
"2006, 2007, and 2008 District FSQL Audit, FSQL Statistical Data & Analysis", various years.

Vietnam Ministry of Education and Training and Ministry of Finance, "Governing the
Management and Utilization of ENTP Funds till 2010" Draft Joint Circular, November 4, 2008.

Vietnam Ministry of Education and Training, Audited Financial Statements, Financial
Management Audits and Procurement Audits, 2006-2008


                                              87
Vietnam Ministry of Education and Training, "Borrower Completion Report", Department of
Planning and Finance, November 2009.
Vietnam Ministry of Education and Training, University of Melbourne, World Bank, NIES,
"Reading and Mathematics Assessment Study", 2001
Vietnam Ministry of Education and Training, World Bank, NIES, "Reading and Mathematics
Assessment Study", 2008
University of Melbourne, World Bank, DFID, "Secondary Analyses of Data on Education
Outcomes", November 2009




                                            88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33511R
                                                  102°E                                      104°E                                     To 106°E                                               108°E                                     110°E
                                                                         To                                 To                        Babao
                                                                       Kunming

      VIETNA M
                                                                                                            Kaiyuan
                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                           Tiandong                CHINA
                                                                                                                           Ha
                                                                                                                           Giang                   Cao Bang
                                                                                                                      4
         PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                           5                                    To
                                                                                      Lao Cai
                                                                                                   Re                                                                                   Nanning
                                                                        Phong Tho
                                                                                  1                  d                                       9
         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                          3                                              Bac Can
                                                                                                                               8                                                                                                         22°N
                                             22°N                                                                                                                                                      To
         RIVERS                                                                                                                     Tuyen
                                                                                                                                    Quang
                                                                                                                                                          10 Lang
                                                                                                                                                              Son
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Hepu
                                                                                        Bla                      7                               Thai
                                                                              2            c   k              Yen Bai                            Nguyen
         MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                    13
                                                                          Dien                     Son La               Viet Tri     12 Vinh Yen                  14
         RAILROADS                                                        Bien Phu                                         11                16
                                                                                                                                                       Bac Giang
                                                                                                                                                                              15
                                                                                                   6                                                 Bac Ninh
                                                         To                                                                        HANOI            17 Hai Duong              Ha Long
         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                          Muang Xai
                                                                                                                      Hoa Binh        Ha Dong 19 20    Hai Phong

         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                    22 18 Hung Yen 21
                                                                                                                                      Ha Nam 23 24
                                                                                                                                                            Thai Binh
                                                                                                                                                         Nam Dinh
                                                                                                                                     Ninh Binh           26
                                                                                                                                            Ma    25
                                             20°N                                                                            27                                                                                                          20°N
                                                                                     To
PROVINCES:                                                                         Luang
 1   Lai Chau        32   Thua Thien Hue                LAO                       Prabang
                                                                                                                                                 Thanh Hoa


 2
 3
     Dien Bien
     Lao Cai
                     33
                     34
                          Da Nang
                          Quang Nam
                                                     PEOPLE'S                                                             28
                                                                                                                                                                              Gulf
 4   Ha Giang        35   Quang Ngai                 D EM . REP.
                                                     DEM.                                                                                                                      of                                             Hainan I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (China)
 5   Cao Bang        36   Kon Tum
                                                                                                             A                       Vinh
                                                                                                                                                                             Tonk in
 6   Son La          37   Gia Lai
 7   Yen Bai         38   Binh Dinh




                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                   Ha Tinh




                                                                                                                     n
 8   Tu Yen Quang    39   Phu Yen                                                                                                     29




                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                         a
 9   Bac Can         40   Dac Lac            18°N                                                             To                                                                                                                         18°N
                                                                                                          Khammouan




                                                                                                                             m
                                                                                                                             m
                                                                                                                             m
10   Lang Son        41   Dac Nong
11   Phu Tho         42   Khanh Hoa
12   Vinh Phuc       43   Binh Phuoc                                                                                                                                  Dong Hoi




                                                                                                                                        C
                                                                                                                                                            30
13   Thai Nguyen     44   Lam Dong




                                                                                                                                             o
14   Bac Giang       45   Ninh Thuan




                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                    d
                                                                                                                                                    d
                                                                                                                                                    d
15   Quang Ninh      46   Tay Ninh                                                                                                                                               Dong Ha
                                                                                                                                        To




                                                                                                                                                          il
16   Ha Noi          47   Binh Duong                                                                                                Savannakhet                             31
17   Bac Ninh        48   Dong Nai                          THA ILA ND
                                                            THAILAND                                                                                                                         Hue




                                                                                                                                                             lll e
                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                 e
18   Ha Tay          49   Binh Thuan




                                                                                                                                                                      r
19   Hung Yen        50   T.P. Ho Chi Minh                                                                                                                                              32
                                                                                                                                                                                                   33        Da Nang




                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                          a
20   Hai Duong       51   Ba Ria-Vung Tau    16°N                                                                                                                                                                                        16°N
21   Hai Phong       52   Long An
22   Hoa Binh        53   Tien Giang                                                                                                                                                                             Tam Ky
                                                                                                                                                                                                   34
23   Ha Nam          54   Dong Thap
24   Thai Binh       55   Ben Tre                                                                                                                                                                                        Quang Ngai
25   Ninh Binh       56   An Giang                                                                                                                                                                                35
26   Nam Dinh        57   Vinh Long                                                                                                                                                            Ngoc Linh
                                                                                                                                                                                               (3143 m)
27   Thanh Hoa       58   Tra Vinh
                                                                                                                                                                                              36 Kon Tum
28   Nghe An         59   Kien Giang
29   Ha Tinh         60   Can Tho                                                                                                                                                                                        38
30   Quang Binh      61   Hau Giang          14°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Central                            14°N
                                                                                                                                                                                             Pleiku
31   Quang Tri       62   Soc Trang                                                                                                                                                                     37                          Quy Nhon
                     63   Bac Lieu
                     64   Ca Mau
                                                                                                                                                                                                Highlands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tuy Hoa
                                                                                                            CAMBODIA                                                                                  40

                                                                                                                                                                                                        Buon Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Thuot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42
                                                                                                                                                                                              41                                  Nha Trang
                                                                                                                                                                                           Gia Nghia
                                             12°N                                                                                           To                                                          Da Lat                           12°N
                                                                                                                                       Kampong Cham                         43
                                                                                                              To                                                          Dong
                                                                                                                                                                          Xoai                          44                45
                                                                                                         Kampong
                                                                                                         Chhnang                                                                                                               Phan Rang-
                                                                                                                                                     46                                                                        Thap Cham
                                                                                                                           Mekong




                                                                                                                                                         Tay Ninh
                                                                                                                                                                                 48
                                                                                                                                                            Thu Dau47
                                                                                                                                                               Mot                                 49
                                                                                                                                                                            Bien Hoa
                                                        Gu l f                                                                                            52
                                                                                                                                                                  50
                                                                                                                                                                          Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Phan Thiet
                                                                                                                                      54
                                                         of                                                                  56         Cao Lanh                 Tan An            51
                                                     Th a i l a n d                                                  Long Xuyen                      53          My Tho
                                                                                                                                                                                  Vung Tau
                                                                                       Phu                                            Vinh Long                  Ben Tre
                     VIETNAM                                                          Quoc                                           60            57
                                             10°N                                                              Rach Gia             Can Tho                      55                                                                      10°N
                                                                                                                                                                            lta




                                                                                                                               59       61                       Tra Vinh
                                                                                                                                        Vi Thanh          58
                                                                                                                                                                          De




                                             This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                            62       Soc Trang
                                             the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                     g




                                             World Bank. The boundaries,                                                             63                             n
                                                                                                                                                                 k o0
                                                                                                                                                 Bac Lieu
                                             colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                          Me
                                                                                                                 Ca Mau
                                             any other information shown                                                                                                       50       100        150         200 Kilometers
                                             on this map do not imply, on                                                 64
                                             the part of The World Bank
                                             Group, any judgment on the
                                             legal status of any territory,                                                                                           0               50               100              150 Miles
                                             or any endorsement or
                                             acceptance of such
                                             boundaries.
                                                                                         104°E                                                   106°E                                             108°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JANUARY 2007
