Document of
The World Bank  FCLE   OY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2336-IYV)
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 18, 1979
Agriculture and Rural Development Department
Rural Development Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          =  Rupiahs (Rp) 625
Rp 1          =  US$0.0016
Rp 1,000,000  = US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton = 1,000 kilograms (Kg)  =  2205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 meter (m) = 29.37 inches            =  3.28 feet = 1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)                        =  10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)              =  100 ha = 0.39 square miles
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1       to        March 31



GLOSSARY             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Bupati                District Officer
Camat                 Sub-district Officer
Desa                  Village
Dukuh                 Hamlet
Kabupaten             District
Gotong Royong         Cooperative effort by villagers
Kader                 Village Health Promoters
Kecamatan             Sub-district
Lurah                 Village Headman
Pedukuhan             Hamlet
ABBREVIATIONS
AETE            Agency for (Agriculture) Education, Training and Extension
ATDC            Agricultural Technical Development Center
ATDSC           Agricultural Technical Development Subcenter
BANGDES         Pembangunan Desa - The Directorate of Rural Development
BAPPEDA         Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah - Provincial Development
Planning Agency
BAPPENAS        Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan National - National Development
Planning Agency
BKUK            Badan Koordinasi Usaha Kesehatan-Health Coordinating Committee
BRI             Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
CCHC            Comprehensive Community Health Care
CRIA            Central Research Institute for Agriculture
DIY             Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta - Special Province of Yogyakarta
DPUK            Kabupaten Public Works Service
DPUP            Provincial Public Works Service
ECD (BAPPEDA)   Evaluation and Coordination Division (BAPPEDA)
GK              Kabupaten Gunung Kidul
GOI             Government of Indonesia
INPRES          Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction" - a rural
works program
KMKP            Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen - Working Capital Credit Program
KP              Kabupaten Kulon Progo
LPH             Research Institute for Horticulture Crops
LPP             Research Institute for Animal Husbandry
LPTI            Research Institute for Industrial Crops
LSD             Lembaga Sosial Desa - Village Development Forum
MTU             Mobile Training Unit
PAS             Provincial Agricultural Service
PIS             Provincial Industries Service
PFS             Provincial Fisheries Service
PHS             Provincial Health Service
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PPL             Field Extension Agent
REC             Regional Extension Center
TDC             Technical Development Cell
UDKP            District Development Unit
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
VTC             Vocational Training Center
YIS             Yayasan Indonesia Sejahtera-Association for Indonesian Welfare
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.        BACKGROUND   ...........................................                                                                            1
A.        General   .........................................                                                                       1
B.        The   Rural   Sector   .................                              ..1............. 
C.        Government    Structure   ........................... .                                                                   3
D.   Previous Bank Group Assistance in the Rural
Sector  .......................................                                                                          4
II.         THE   PROJECT   AREA   .....................................                                                                        5
A.        Introduction   ....................................                                                                       5
B.        Physical   Environment   ............................                                                                     5
C.        Population   ......................................                                                                       6
D.        Economy   .........................................                                                                       7
III.    ONGOING AGENCIES  AND PROGRAMS  ............                                                 ............                                 9
A.        Agriculture    ................................... .                                               .                      9
B.        Non-farm   Enterprises    ..............                                ..         ............                         10
C.        Rural   Infrastructure    .......................... ..                                                                 11
D.        Social   Services   .....                         ................. .. .........                                        11
E.        Community   Development   ..............                                   ..        ...........                        13
IV.         THE   PROJECT   ..........................................                                                                        13
A.   Background ......................................                                                                            13
B.        Project   Strategy    ................                              ..        ..............                            14
C.        Project    Composition   ...............                                ..         ............                         16
D.        Detailed   Features    ................                               ..         .............                          17
Agricultural   Development   ...........                                  ..        .........                       17
Non-Farm   Development   .....                               .................. ...                                23
Social   Services   Support   ............                                ..       .........                       24
Rural   Roads                     ....................                  ...............                            25
Institutional   Development   .....................                                                                25
E.        Cost   Estimates    .......                     .......... ..                ...............                            27
F.        Financing    ........                   ............ ..                 .................                               31
G.        Procurement                             .....................................                                           32
H.        Disbursements                         ....................                  ...............                             32
I.        Accounts   and   Audits    ...............                              ..        ............                          33



Table of Contents (Continued)                                           Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................           33
A.   Introduction ........ ...................                   33
B.   Project Coordination ...........o ................          34
C.   Project Implementation ....... ................             34
VI.   MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES ...................           42
A.   Marketing .................... ...........                  42
B.   Prices ...........................                          42
C.   Farm Incomes .....................                          42
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK .....................           45
A.   Benefits ........... ... ........                           45
B.   Economic Analysis .................... . ....     .         46
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact   O ..        .          47
Environmental Impact             .. .                    48
VIII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................           48
ANNEX 1:  Project Costs
Table 1:  Summary of Estimated Project Cost
Table 2:  Project Costs by Year and Account Categories
Table 3:  Estimated Project Costs by Activities and Account Categories
ANNEX 2:  Illustrative Farm Family Budgets
Table 1:  Prices of Staple Food Crops at Harvest Time (1977-1978)
Table 2a: Silvipasture Model Without Project, Yields and Input Data
Table 2b: Silvipasture Model Without Project, Family Budget for
0.7 ha Farm
Table 2c: Silvipasture Model With Project, Family Budget for 0.7 ha
Farm
Table 3a: Terracing Model Without Project, Yields and Input Data
Table 3b: Terracing Model With Project, Yields and Input Data
Table 3c: Terracing Model Without Project, Family Budget for 0.7 ha
Farm
Table 3d: Terracing Model With Project, Family Budget for 0.7 ha Farm
Table 4:  Illustrative Model of Production and Income from Improved
Home Garden, 0.3 ha.
ANNEX 3:  Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
MAP  IBRD 13978 Administrative Boundaries and Proposed Project Actions
This report is based on the work of an appraisal mission in June 1978 com-
prised of Messrs. Furst, Anderson, Draper, Leeuwrik, Temple (Bank); Balcet,
McNulty (Consultants) and a subsequent post-appraisal mission in October/
November comprised of Messrs. Furst, Draper, Temple (Bank) and Ms. Jellinek and Mr.
Leersnyder (Consultants).



INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank Group assis-
tance for the initiation of a multipurpose rural development program in the
Special Province of Yogyakarta (DIY). The project now proposed would con-
stitute the first, essentially experimental technical development phase of
such a program and would be the first Bank Group assisted project in Indonesia
designed to support the Government's new approach to critical area development
through the strategy of decentralizing authority to the Province to address
its special problems. Such an approach is dictated by the severity and
difficulty of the problems faced by the rural population in the project areas;
and it is justified by the potentially widespread application of a successful
experience to the substantial population and land area of Java affected by
similar (albeit mostly less severe) problems. The project actions would be
focused on two Kabupaten (districts) within DIY, Gunung Kidul and Kulon Progo.
Together, these areas of broken, upland terrain support over one million
people, the vast majority of whom subsist as smallholders; with arable
land averaging less than 1 ha, most are also part time casual wage laborers,
or otherwise engaged in secondary activities. Poverty is widespread and
severe; per capita incomes, estimated at the equivalent of some US$60, are
among the lowest in Indonesia (1978 average: US$200). After discounting for
outmigration which is still occurring, population pressure continues to
increase, with a net growth rate exceeding 1% per annum. Under the intensive
pressures, the ecologically safe limits of cultivation have long since been
exceeded and the resulting serious soil erosion and soil depletion problems
are everywhere in evidence on the hillsides. Problems of low and precarious
incomes are exacerbated by minimal availability of public health services and
by a lack of basic amenities, including reliable and safe water supplies.
These special problems and their proposed solutions are further analyzed in
Chapters II and IV respectively.
B. The Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.02      About 108 million people, some 80% of Indonesia's total population,
live in rural areas. With the exception of oil palm and tea, agriculture is
dominated by smallholders. There are an estimated 14.4 million smallholders
producing subsistence and cash crops on 14.2 million hectares, and about
1,800 large plantations comprising 2.2 million hectares. About 70% of all
farms have less than 1 ha. The main products of these small farms are rice,
corn, cassava, soy beans, fruits and vegetables, accounting for about 64%
of total agricultural output. Other annual crops account for 10%; perennial
crops, 4%; livestock, 7%; forestry, 11%; and fisheries, 4%. The main cash
crops are rubber, tea, coconut, oil palm, sugar and coffee.



-2-
1.03      The major issues facing the agricultural and rural sector in
Indonesia are: the need to create productive employment opportunities to
raise the incomes of the rural poor; the need to raise domestic food supply
to keep pace with rising demand; the need to expand agricultural exports; and
the need to ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land,
water and other natural resources.
1.04      In Java, where 82 million people live on 7% of the country's total
land area, all lowland and most of the better upland is totally utilized.
About one-third of Java's rural population is landless and a large proportion
of the remainder cannot support themselves on incomes from their own farms
alone. Intense population pressures have increasingly forced small farmers
and landless peasants to eke out a meager existence by cropping marginal up-
land areas and low potential steep mountain slopes, dangerously exceeding safe
ecological limits. Whereas several government programs are directed toward
increasing the productivity of lowland and irrigated agriculture, upland agri-
culture has received scant attention. Whilst there is a continuing need to
pursue developments in the major irrigated areas in Java through improved
water usage, supporting services and solving pest and disease problems, and
extending these developments to the other islands, there is also an urgent
need to develop a comprehensive program for erosion control and improved
agricultural practices in the upland areas of Java, which constitute a sig-
nificant proportion of the croplands. Production and poverty in these areas
have worsened over time and without systematic interventions are likely to
become more serious as widespread erosion further weakens the resource base.
Through its Greening Movement (Impres Penghijauan) program and more recent
(1978/79) extension of BIMAS credit for mixed cropping (BIMAS Palawija
Tumpang Sari) on an experimental scale, the Government has initiated actions
designed to stabilize and improve productivity of upland areas. However,
results so far obtained by the Greening Movement program indicate that a more
comprehensive approach is needed to secure farmers' effective participation;
and a major bottleneck to the expansion of production credit in the uplands
is likely to be a lack of proven technical packages suitable for extension in
these fragile areas. Similarly, the present Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
credits for cattle fattening, 1/ an important activity for upland farmers, are
mainly focused on lowland areas. Credit terms would need to be softened to
take into consideration the longer fattening cycles characteristic of the up-
lands to have a widespread impact in these areas.
1.05      Although the Government has not yet formalized a policy or national
program for rural development, there is growing interest and commitment for
poverty-oriented rural development. Government has initiated pilot programs,
with a focus on rural poverty areas, which incorporate the decentralization of
planning and integration of various development efforts.  In 1974, Government
instituted an Area Development Program designed to assist ten "critical" areas
in development efforts. Selection criteria include high population density
in relation to resource base and a low per capita income. Development efforts
1/   Made available under the BRI's KMKP program, sub-program PUTP.



are to be based on low cost per beneficiary to ensure replicability. In
this regard, Government has initiated two pilot Area Development Programs in
Aceh and Central Java provinces with USAID support. The proposed Yogyakarta
Rural Development Project would be a third pilot effort to alleviate rural
poverty on an area-wide basis. It is expected that Government would evaluate
the results of these and other approaches to assist in the formulation of
large-scale rural development programs. Other Indonesian programs designed
to support rural development include the nation-wide INPRES program which
finances rural infrastructure and supports employment generating activities,
and the Bank-supported Transmigration Program which is intended to alleviate
intense population pressures in Java by resettling large numbers of farm
families and landless laborers on the other Islands, principally Sumatra and
Kalimantan.
C. Government Structure
1.06      Government power in Indonesia is highly centralized, with major con-
trol vested with the President and his cabinet. As of 1978, there were 17
ministries, the most important of which in this project were: Agriculture,
Industry, Manpower and Transmigration, Health, Public Works and Home Affairs.
1.07      Provincial government is organized at four levels:  Province,
Kabupaten (district), Kecamatan (subdistrict), and Desa (village). Within
the Desa are unofficial units called Pedukuhan (hamlet). The Province is
headed by a Governor who is appointed by the President and responsible to the
region's Legislative Council. The Governor coordinates all line agency
activities, which are represented at the provincial level as directorates.
The Kabupaten is run by a Bupati who is also appointed by the Ministry of Home
Affairs, on the advice of the Governor, and is responsible for coordinating
activities represented at his level by sub-directorates. The Kecamatan
includes 10-15 Desa, and is the lowest level at which there are full-time paid
civil servants representing the various Government ministries. It is run by a
Camat, who is appointed by the Governor and has direct responsibility for
coordinating Government activities in his district. The Desa, which is more
an administrative unit embracing 10-15 Pedukuhan than a distinct geographic
entity, is run by a Lurah with the assistance of a 5-man staff. The Lurah is
appointed by the Governor upon nomination of the villagers and is remunerated
by land cultivation rights.  His chief responsibility is promotion of Govern-
ment programs at the Desa level. A Pedukuhan has from 50-100 households and
is run by a Dukuh or headman who is unpaid, and whose position, nominally
elective, is often hereditary. The dynamism of the Desa and Pedukuhan are
often reflected in and dependent upon the personality of the local leaders.
1.08      Development Planning is carried out both at the national and at
the provincial levels. Government is currently seeking suitable approaches
to strengthen the provincial capability to plan, coordinate, and execute
projects. BAPPENAS, the National Development Planning Council (Badan



- 4 -
Pereneanaan Pembangunan Nasional), is directly under the office of the
President and has the responsibility of developing a national development
plan. This job entails coordinating regional and sectoral plans; dealing
with the national budget and with foreign assistance funds; and monitor-
ing, evaluating, and preparing economic reports. BAPPEDA, the Provincial
Development Planning Boards (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah), were
established in 1974 in all provinces to institute a local capacity for
regional planning. Each BAPPEDA has the responsibility of drawing up five-
year Development Plans for its province and overseeing its implementation
through establishment of annual work programs as well as coordinating all
local development efforts. The move to decentralize planning is still young,
and the Yogyakarta BAPPEDA staff must be strengthened if it is to fulfill
effectively its assigned tasks. Its senior staff includes a chairman, vice
chairman, secretary, and division chiefs, all of whom are appointed by the
Governor. Its four divisions are Infrastructure, Economic Affairs, Govern-
mental and Cultural Affairs, and Evaluation and Coordination.
D. Previous Bank Group Assistance in the Agriculture and Rural Sector
1.09      Previous Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector in
Indonesia has included IDA credits totalling about US$212 million and IBRD
loans for US$617 million, for 29 agricultural projects accounting for over
one-third of all lending. Agricultural projects comprise: twelve for
irrigation development and rehabilitation, two for tea, one for sugar, one
for seed production, three for agricultural estates, one for beef cattle,
two for nucleus estates/smallholder development, two for fisheries, three
for fertilizer expansion and distribution, two for agricultural extension and
research, one for transmigration and rural development, one for rural credit;
there is also a nutrition project which is initiating actions for developing
a national nutrition plan through strengthening institution capacities,
providing training and pilot programs of direct interventions in 180 villages.
Most projects in agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, in both food and tree crops. The Tenth Irrigation proj-
ect includes the rehabilitation and extension of the Kali Progo irrigation
scheme serving the major irrigated areas of DIY and embraces a program for
tube well irrigation in the flat land of the Wonosari plain in Gunung Kidul.
1.10      There is an increasing awareness of the need to provide productive
work opportunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and
growing rural labor force, in addition to a more rapid increase in agricul-
tural production, particularly of food crops. The Bank is assisting Govern-
ment in a major study aimed at formulating policies and programs to raise food
production and expand non-farm rural development. The review will cover such
issues as domestic and foreign resource mobilization, trends and outlooks for
agricultural growth, population, employment, and income distribution. The
final report provides input for the formulation of the Third Plan and will be
ready in 1979.



- 5 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Introduction
2.01      The proposed project area comprises the two poorest Kabupaten -
Gunung Kidul (GK) and Kulon Progo (KP) - in the Special Province of Yogyakarta
(DIY). Located on the island of Java, the province is one of the most impover-
ished of Indonesia's 26 provinces. It covers 3,200 km2, and has an estimated
population of 2.65 million (1977). The province is predominantly rural, with
80% of its population living in rural areas. The average man/land ratio is
1,033 persons per km2 of net cultivable land. The Kabupatens of GK and KP,
which constitute respectively the easternmost and westernmost regions of the
province, have a population of 657,000 and 395,000 inhabitants, respectively
(1977). Per capita income in the province in 1978 was about US$90, compared
to the national average of US$200. GK and KP are particularly poor, with an
annual per capita income estimated at US$60. 1/ They contain the following
administrative units:
Kecamatan    Desa    Pedukuhan
Gunung Kidul                        13        144       1,385
Kulon Progo                         12          88        976
B. Physical Environment
2.02      Mean annual rainfall is in the range of 1,000-4,000 mm, but with
substantial yearly variations. There is a distinct wet season from about
November to April, when 75% of the rain falls, and a dry season from May to
October. Mean daily maximum temperature is 300C and mean daily minimum 22 0C.
2.03      The topography of the province is dominated by Merapi Volcano
(3,000 m), in the north, flanked to the east and west by the broken hilly
country of the Kabupaten of GK and KP. Soils vary widely from the fertile
volcanic ash on the slopes of Mt. Merapi and the alluvial soils at its
southern base to the very poor limestone "karst" area in southern GK.
Between these extremes are shallow but relatively fertile lateritic limestone
and black clay soils in the Wonosari plateau in central GK and generally poor
lateritic soils in the uplands of GK and KP. The upland of both Kabupaten
have moderate to steep slopes and terracing efforts in these areas have so far
been ineffective. However, erosion has taken a heavier toll in GK where soils
are shallower. The karst area is the most difficult; here, a succession of
steep conical hills, mostly rock, are interspersed by small V-shaped valleys.
Only about 25% of the land is usable; farmers cultivate the narrow valleys and
the small soil areas between limestone outcroppings on the hills.
1/   The absolute poverty level for Indonesia in 1978 was US$78.



2.04      Hydrological conditions in both Kabupaten are extremely variable,
but water shortage is particularly acute in the "karst" area of south-eastern
GK where the limestone subsurface is coupled with very deep and inaccessible
groundwater, making it one of Java's most water-short areas. The main sources
of water are surface ponds, only 20% of which contain water in the dry season.
Many of the local people must walk up to 5 km for their domestic water supply.
Water shortage, coupled with its isolation and relatively poorer soil, combine
to make GK the geologically less fortunate of the two project areas.
2.05      DIY was originally covered with tropical rain forest.  During the
colonial period, the plains were cleared for sugarcane and rice cultivation,
and part of the hillsides for perennial crops. It is only in the last 50
years that annual food cropping has been taking place in the uplands of GK and
KP, but as increasing population pressures forced numbers of farmers to move
to the higher uplands, considerable land degradation through soil erosion has
occurred. To preserve the land, farmers have attempted to build terraces on
many of the steep slopes. However, even where these exist, they are poorly
designed and maintained and have frequently not been effective in preventing
soil erosion and loss of fertility. The physical results of such land use
and management practices are: (a) an increasing imbalance in hydrological
regimes which causes growing aridness in the dry season and increased flood-
ing during the wet monsoon; (b) a rapid depletion of the soil base, both
quantitatively (soil loss through erosion which results in the siltation of
irrigation facilities and streams, and in turn, increased flood hazards) and
qualitatively (decline in fertility through leaching of soil nutrients) and;
(c) hence, a decline in productivity, and subsequently, a decline in incomes.
However, production can be improved in these areas through appropriate soil
conservation measures coupled with improved agronomic practices.
C. Population
General
2.06      The province's designation as "Special" stems from the fact that it
is the only province whose Governor is a traditional King or Sultan. Since
Independence, the problems of population pressure have increasingly dominated
the province. The carrying capacity of the fertile lowlands has long been
exhausted and increasing numbers of farm families have been moving to the less
hospitable uplands to eke out a living.  The 1978 population density was
around 840 persons per km2, making DIY second only to Jakarta as the most
populated area in Indonesia.
2.07      Average farm size in the hilly areas, excluding homestead and yards,
is .70 ha, the smallest in Indonesia's hilly and mountainous uplands. Social
position is based on the amount of land held, with a clear differentiation
between those who control enough land to be relatively independent and those
who must engage in sharecropping or wage labor to survive. Although in the
project's upland farming areas absolute landlessness is unknown, the poorest



farmers are those who own the most inaccessible, the least fertile, or the
steepest plots - and thus, severe soil erosion is largely a problem of those
who are least able to afford preventive measures. As a practical matter,
however, the degree of disparity of living levels among individuals is not
excessive. Material possessions are modest even at the highest level, and
for all, the way of life is simple and largely traditional, typified by
simple housing, long working days for both men and women, which often includes
an inordinate amount of time spent on water and fuelwood collection and por-
terage, and low nutrition levels, with corn and cassava being the main
staples. Crop yields are low; a large portion of the land produces, on a
pure crop basis, only about 1.4 tons/ha of cassava, 0.3 tons/ha maize and
0.2 tons/ha dryland rice. Cows ar!e goats are kept in pens beside the house.
Livestock represent an important means of saving, and families, particularly
children, may spend as many as 3 to 4 hours collecting daily feed.
2.08      Ill health is a common problem, particularly among the young, as
evidenced by a high mortality rate (estimated at 19/1,000), a high infant
mortality rate (135/1,000) and a low life expectancy (50 years in 1976). The
morbidity rate is very high with gastro-intestinal infections, worm infes-
tation, and lung tuberculosis being among the most prevalent diseases. Mal-
nutrition, particularly during the preharvest season, contributes to health
problems, as does the acute water shortage particularly in the karst area of
southern GK.
2.09      A major constraint in the development of agriculture and industry
is the lack of all-weather roads. GK and KP together have 570 km of surfaced
provincial and Kabupaten roads, which link the larger population centers
to each other and to rural areas. Many of these are so poorly maintained,
however, that farmers must often carry produce and supplies considerable
distances to the nearest passable road. There are in addition a network of
rural roads, some 3,000 km in GK and 1,200 in KP which connect villages to
each other. Many of these roads are passable only in the dry season, thus
exacerbating the problem of isolation in these two Kabupaten.
D. Economy
2.10      Agriculture provides the main livelihood for 90-95% of the popula-
tion in both KP and GK. Despite maximum utilization of available lands,
however, there is a severe deficit in food crops. Both Kabupaten are net
importers of food -and GK in particular is vulnerable to famine in a poor
crop year.
2.11      Farmland falls into three categories:  sawah or irrigated rice;
dry farmland; and homegardens. Homegardens account for over 50% of farmland
in KP, with the remainder divided equally between sawah and dry. Dryland
farming is of key importance in GK, representing about 75% of the area, with
homegardens covering almost another 20%. The main dryland crops are cassava,
maize, upland rice, and groundnuts; typically grown in mixed stands. Though



- 8 -
single season cropping is characteristic of dryland cultivation, in some
areas, there are second plantings of groundnuts and soya, primarily for sale.
Homegardens, located around the homestead, provide farmers, especially the
poorest, with the basic ingredients for survival. The typical homegarden is
a mixture of fruit trees, firewood trees, and trees which produce building
materials, with underplantings of annual and other herbaceous plants such
as roots, tubers, medicinal plants, and vegetables. Together, these plants
form a close canopy similar to natural forests which protects the soil from
erosion. The mix usually depends on the farmer's relative need for home
consumption and cash crops. Significantly, the proportion of homegardens
increases with increasing population pressures.
2.12      Livestock production provides savings and supplementary income for
large numbers of farm families. Livestock densities in the project areas are
above the provincial average, which in turn is second highest in Indonesia.
Some 35% of the province's farmers keep cattle (1.7 head of cattle per farm);
92% poultry; 42% goats and sheep; and 4% buffaloes. In the sawah areas,
cattle are widely used for draft purposes while in the uplands, they are kept
mainly for breeding and meat production. Trade data indicate that there is
a net export of cattle from DIY, especially from GK. Livestock is moved on
the hoof, normally through the Siyono Livestock Market in GK, operated every
fifth day by the GK Market Service. Sales are conducted almost exclusively
through brokers who take an estimated commission of 10 to 15%. Productivity
is low, with a cow producing only 3-4 calves during its active life. Causes
are poor genetic quality, coupled with insufficient feed and inadequate
disease control.
2.13      In GK and KP, there are an estimated total of nearly 7,500 families
who catch fish in fish ponds, public waters, and rice fields. Yields per ha
are lower than the national average, since most producers do not use
advanced stocking and feeding technology, depending instead on natural feed
scavenged by fish. As a result, the annual catch of some 412 tons is mostly
consumed by the farmers, with only 10% marketed.
2.14      Incomes derived from the typical small landholdings in the project
area are usually insufficient to meet basic nutritional needs, and during
the slack periods (growing months), the men may turn to cottage industries
or other non-farm employment throughout the towns and cities of Java. Avenues
open for productive employment are few, and most jobs are poorly remunerated.
Many engage in such agro-related activities as wood gathering and tapping of
coconut trees for sugar. Non-farm rural production is poorly developed,
including such rudimentary activities as handicrafts, stone quarrying, lime
burning, blacksmithing, tile making, and water delivery (GK).  Approximately
400 registered small-scale enterprises were reported to employ 3,000 people in
1974 in the project area, with only 10 medium-scale (employing 10-50 persons),
all in KP. Another 50,000-60,000 people were engaged full time or part time
in informal non-farm activities. In addition, it appears that the value of
manufacturing output has shrunk in recent years, popsibly in part because of
an influx of cheap, mass-fabricated goods. Fundamental to the weak performance



- 9 -
of this sector, however, is lack of capital formation, low levels of worker
and management skills, the low level of technology, and the scarcity of
developed markets.
III. ONGOING AGENCIES AND PROGRAMS
A. Agriculture
Provincial Agricultural Service
3.01      The Provincial Agricultural Service (PAS) has three sections in the
project area dealing with crop production - food crops, horticulture, and
estate/ industrial crops - and one dealing with fisheries. The sections
dealing with crop production have only 33 field extension agents (PPLs) in GK
and 20 PPLs in KP, representing average ratios of extension workers of 1:2,000
ha and 1:3,000 ha respectively, compared with targets under the National Food
Crops Extension project of 1:600-1,000 ha. These agents concentrate mainly on
irrigated rice areas. There are no special efforts which focus on the upland
area's most pressing problems of an eroding soil base and diminishing soil
productivity. Thus, terracing efforts have been undertaken by farmers mainly
without governmental support, and research has been negligible into methods of
increasing yields in homegardens and in the food crops on which upland farmers
depend. The PAS has small field stations of doubtful utility in KP and GK and
Gadjah Mada University in Yogyakarta has conducted research in the area, but
mostly relevant to irrigated rice. On a national level, the Central Research
Institute of Agriculture (CRIA) has instituted an upland cropping research
program in a number of locations throughout Indonesia, but none in or near
Yogyakarta. The research findings of two other research institutions (Research
Institute for Industrial Crops - coconut, cloves, and vanilla, and Research
Institute for Horticulture Crops - fruits and vegetables) have also not been
applied in the project area.
Fisheries Service
3.02      The Fisheries Service has 5 fisheries agents in each of the proj-
ect Kabupaten. It operates two fish hatcheries in the project area, one at
Genjahan, GK, and the other at Banjararum in KP. In addition to operating
the hatcheries, the staff are expected to provide extension services to
farmers and operate training courses in fish culture and pond management. Due
to financial and staffing constraints, these activities are minimal.
Directorate of Agraria
3.03      The Directorate of Agraria, which is a part of the Department of
Home Affairs, has 17 technical staff members in DIY to deal with the process
of issuing legal title to land holdings. Since most of the area's farmers
do not hold full legal title to their land, the existing technicians are not



- 10 -
sufficient in numbers to complete the process in the near future. Moreover,
because of historical considerations special to DIY where the Governor, by
customary law holds extensive rights over much of the land, individual regis-
tration would require his formal approval.
Provincial Livestock Service
3.04      The provincial chief of Livestock Services is in charge both of
nationally funded programs, the most important of which is an artificial
insemination (AI) program to improve the fertility of cattle through genetic
upgrading, and of locally funded activities, particularly dealing with animal
health. The AI program, instituted in 1974 in DIY with a current annual
goal of 10,000 inseminations (2,000 per Kabupaten), is run by a provincial
AI coordinator, and operates in the project area through two AI posts in KP
and one in GK. The major efforts to improve animal health are vaccination
programs to control foot-and-mouth disease, hemorrhagic septicaemia, Newcastle
disease, and diphtheria. The Service also attempts to alert farmers to health
problems by having an animal husbandry livestock assistant at the Siyono
Market on market days to inspect livestock for disease.
B. Non-farm Development
Non-Farm Enterprises
3.05      Government assistance to small-scale enterprises in Indonesia
is still in an early stage of development and the programs have not yet been
extended to the project area, where Government agencies have been little
represented and problems are particularly severe. The prime agency is the
Provincial Industries Service (PIS), whose main function is promotional.
Although small branch offices exist in KP and GK, their main efforts have been
directed towards handicrafts and those of the Provincial office toward larger
industries than occur in the two Kabupaten. Institutional interventions to
increase the earnings from non-farm rural production have included credit
schemes - KIK/KdPK for large loans, (average size Rpl.5 million), and Bank
Rakyat Indonesia's (BRI's) mini-credit for loans in the RplO,000 to RplOO,000
range - technical assistance and industrial extension through, for example the
IDA Small Scale Enterprise Development Project 1/, and cooperatives formation.
Limited mini-credit facilities are available in the project areas, but KIK/
KMKP is not effectively available to small scale enterprises since the sup-
porting technical assistance and extension efforts to these have yet to be
developed.
1/   See IBRD Report No. 1614a-IND (Credit 785-IND).



- 11 -
Vocational Training
3.06      To meet the needs of those who leave the formal educational system,
and to provide the nation with a supply of skilled artisans, the Government
has established a network of Vocational Training Centers (VTCs). 1/ The net-
work is administered by the Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration through
its Directorate of Vocational and Management Development. The VTCs are rein-
forced by a system of Mobile Training Units (MTUs), which provide shorter
vocational courses in outlying areas. The population of KP and GK have little
access to vocational training opportunities.  There is only one VTC in DIY,
located in Yogyakarta city; in 1977, KP contributed only 13 students and GK
only 33 out of a total of 618 in the province. There is also only one MTU,
which conducted 4 out of its 12 courses in 1977 in KP and GK, reaching a total
of 85 students.
C. Rural Roads
3.07      The approximately 400 km of provincial roads in the project area are
maintained by the Provincial Public Works Service (DPUP) and the remaining 170
km of Kabupaten roads are maintained by the Kabupaten Public Works Services
(DPUK). The area's 4,200 km of rural roads are maintained by the villagers
themselves, with some financing being provided by the Impres Desa program for
the purchase of materials. In GK, and less successfully in KP, there are
active self-help programs through which villagers collectively rebuild and
upgrade the local roads. The Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration in 1975
instituted a more formal program of village road maintenance, providing funds
to pay for labor and materials in an effort both to generate employment and to
improve infrastructure. However, there is a need to establish at the Kabupaten
level systematic standards for low-cost rural road construction and to re-
inforce the DPUK to undertake the management of directly executed construction
and maintenance work.
D. Social Services
Rural Health
3.08      The Government organization delivering rural health care flows
from the Ministry of Health and includes health offices at the provincial,
Kabupaten, and Kecamaten levels. The lowest level at which Government
provides health services is at the Kecamaten health center. There are 12
health centers in KP and 13 in GK. Each center nominally has one qualified
physician, one nurse, one midwife, one sanitarian, four to six malaria home
1/   Financed under IBRD 4th Education Project (Credit 1237-IND).



- 12 -
visitors, two vaccinators and several junior assistants. In fact, in 1978,
there were only 15 doctors for the 25 centers in KP and GK. In addition,
there are at the Desa level a number of maternal child health clinics and
outpatient clinics in both KP and GK.
3.09      The Government has instituted three outreach programs designed
to provide additional health care at the local level and to increase use of
existing health facilities. The Kader program trains village health promoters
(kaders), who are local part time volunteers, to perform simple curative,
preventive and organizational tasks in the village under the supervision of
the health center doctor and his staff. The program was instituted in the
project areas in 1974 with the training of 300 kader in KP and 500 in GK and
is working well in some villages of Kulon Progo.  The School Health program,
launched throughout the country under Pelita II (1973-78), seeks to ensure
that all schools have at least one teacher qualified to give first aid, teach
health subjects and emphasize the importance of nutrition. The Kabupaten
school health supervisor provides a key leadership role with the Provincial
Health Service (PHS) providing instructional material and arranging for teacher
training. The Comprehensive Community Health Care program (CCHC) operated by
the Gadjah Mada university provides support for rural health services by
assigning senior medical students to work in the Kecamatan health centers as
part of their medical training. Besides assisting with the c-enters' routine
work, the students undertake health promotion work in the villages such as
Kader training and supervision, latrine construction and nutrition instruc-
tion. Despite the limited achievements thus far attained in upgrading health
facilities, it is increasingly clear that there will continue to be a severe
shortage of professional medical personnel available for service to the rural
areas. There is therefore an acute need for an increasing number of para-
professionals who would serve to improve the outreach of the existing health
services in Kulon Projo and Gunung Kidul.
Rural Water Supplies
3.10      Although water shortage is an acute problem in southern GK (para.
2.04), financial constraints have frustrated efforts to address the problem
on a wide scale. The Government has a number of programs underway, with
responsibility divided among the Provincial Public Works Service and the
Provincial Health Service. UNICEF has supported a pilot program of ferro-
cement rainwater catchment tank construction, the technology for which
was developed by DIAN DESA, a private, non-profit Indonesian appropriate
technology group. Now that a clearly defined appropriate technique has been
established for relatively low cost potable water supply under the UNICEF
pilot program, there is a need to expand the provision of this service in the
areas of critical shortage. This project would support such an expansion and
it is expected that DIAN DESA would be the executing agency.



- 13 -
E. Community Development
Directorate of Rural Development
3.11      The Ministry of Home Affairs through its Directorate of
Rural Development (BANGDES) is responsible for fostering community development
activities at the local level. The Directorate works through District Devel-
opment Units (UDKP) which have been formed at the Kabupaten and Kecamatan
levels to promote self-help activities at the Desa and Pedukuhan levels.
These in turn promote formation of Village Development Forums (LSDs), headed
by the Lurah and his staff, to communicate Government policies to the Desa and
the Pedukuhan and to promote village development. The strategy to generate
popular involvement is to organize people around issues of particular concern
to them. Thus, LSD members are each charged with an area of community interest
(social welfare, law and order, economic affairs) and they promote formation
of corresponding special interest groups in the Pedukuhan, run by volunteer
leaders responsible to the Dukuh. Due to lack of training and inadequate
funding, these various groups often do not function effectively. Indonesia
has a traditional and well-established obligation of self-help (gotong-royong)
through which villagers are expected to participate in projects of communal
interest without pay or remuneration. In practice, gotong-royong and the
dynamism of the Lurah and Dukuh remain the principal motivating forces among
villagers. Since it will often occur that these motivating forces are in
imbalance, there is a need to provide a mechanism to elicit full participation
of villagers if development innovations are to be accepted and sustained.
3.12      Elsewhere in Java, successful small scale efforts to promote popular
participation in development activities have been undertaken by Yayasan
Indonesia Sejahtera (YIS - the Association for Indonesian Welfare), a non-
governmental, non-profit organization. This organiation is experienced in the
training of village leaders in community participation and development. Its
community development projects in Java and the other Islands range from
nutrition and health activities to cattle breeding and the development of
credit cooperatives. It is expected that YIS would be employed to provide
similar services under the project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Background
4.01      The project would be one of the pilot projects for Government's Area
Development Program (para. 1.05). DIY was selected as a "critical" area, and
in December 1975, GOI requested Bank assistance in developing a program to
improve the quality of life of its citizens. The preliminary design was drawn
up under the direction of BAPPEDA/Yogyakarta with participation of government



- 14 -
officials and Gadjah Mada University. Through subsequent Bank missions and
five man-months of international consultancy, the project was further refined.
In line with the priority focus of Government's area development programs, the
two poorest Kabupaten in DIY were selected for project participation, and key
agricultural activities were designed to concentrate on the most critical
areas, the hillsides, with complimentary activities in other sectors addressing
basic infrastructure and social needs. The project would complement and
reinforce existing Government programs, several of which are supported under
Bank-financed projects, such as food crops extension (1267 IND), research and
extension (1179 IND), nutrition development (1373 IND), and fertilizer dis-
tribution (1139 IND).
B. Project Strategy
4.02      The project would constitute a first five-year phase of a longer-
term development program in DIY designed to increase incomes and to improve
rural living conditions. Project activities were selected to focus on
those problems which represent prime bottlenecks to development. For upland
agriculture, the most fundamental of these in GK and KP is soil erosion and
low productivity, and thus the project's agricultural actions focus first on
stabilizing the land base, and then on developing new technology packages for
agricultural production. The project also supports development of the most
promising immediate income-producing activities in the area: fisheries,
livestock production, and small-scale enterprises. It addresses a key infra-
structural bottleneck: all-weather rural roads. Finally, it attempts to
tackle the most pressing needs in the social sphere, paucity of health per-
sonnel, and shortage of drinking water in selected critical areas. Project
execution would be in the hands of appropriate local (mainly provincial)
authorities and the proposed arrangements are in line with existing manage-
ment and organizational structures. The aim would be to strengthen and
progressively to augment implementation capacity at the local level; current
weaknesses and deficiencies constitute a further reason for the cautious and
modest program that is now proposed. As a multi-purpose endeavour, the proj-
ect would also seek to strengthen and improve the coordination of existing
and new activities, but it is not designed as a fully integrated approach
whose overall success would depend on the success of each of the several com-
ponents. Rather, each element or component would be implemented at a pace
consistent with the capacities of the specific agency responsible for it and
in the light of any special difficulties or problems that might emerge through
implementation.  In sum, organization features are also designed with refer-
ence to the concern for replicability in the wider context of Javanese rural
development problems.
4.03      Many project activities are experimental in nature, particularly
those designed to test the technical, economic, and social appropriateness
of measures proposed for arresting soil erosion, and for field testing and
introducing improved agricultural technologies for upland farming. The



- 15 -
project strategy is to initially confine the technical development activi-
ties to three pilot areas, comprising about 3,650 ha, and then, after a
positive evaluation of the trials and pilot programs carried out during the
first three years, to extend project activities to an additional 3,500-
4,000 ha in years four and five. The approaches refined, tested, and
evaluated would be potentialy applicable to the 400,000 ha of similarly
endangered uplands in eastern and central Java. The three pilot areas have
been selected to represent lands at different stages of degradation. Gedung
Poh in northern GK, with moderate slopes, is severely eroded despite terrac-
ing attempts, with much of the land abandoned. Banjar Oyo in northern KP,
although steeper in parts and with only rudimentary attempts at terracing, is
less eroded. The third area, Hargo Tirto, also in KP, is far steeper but
with heavy tree cover, with 90% of its land in homegardens. In these three
pilot areas, the project would introduce such soil conservation methods as
terracing, and reforestation combined where appropriate with introduction of
fodder production linked with livestock and would experiment with packages to
increase productivity of home gardens and of food crops generally. Whenever
possible, the project would draw on existing technology particularly those
developed in the Upper Solo Watershed Project 1/ and with methodologies
developed by CRIA.
4.04      In the approach to other components, the project would couple an
experimental strategy with the use of existing techniques. Development of
non-farm activities would combine a survey to determine the optimum strategy
for long-term industrial development with immediate influx of credit through
existing facilities. Expansion of currently available vocational training
opportunities is expected to be undertaken in a follow up project. The rural
health component would build on the proven success of the small-scale volun-
teer health promoter (kader) system used elsewhere in Java, and the use of
school teachers as health educators/primary health workers. The village water
supply component would expand a UNICEF pilot program of low cost roof rain-
water catchment tank construction using technology which has been identified
as the most appropriate for the area. The rural roads component would intro-
duce low-cost labor intensive all-weather gravel roads construction and
maintenance as a methodology not hitherto used on Java. To overcome the
social and cultural constraints often encountered in rural development proj-
ects, and to ensure that development actions would be sustained, the project
would introduce community participation training activities for project staff,
participants, and other Government staff concerned with the project. Finally,
the project would strengthen the existing provincial planning board's capa-
bility to coordinate the project activities of the various participating
agencies; to monitor the project through the development of a management
information system; and to plan and prepare future projects.
1/   UNDP/FAO Upper Solo Watershed Management Project, AG:DP/INS/72/006.



- 16 -
C. Project Composition
4.05      Specifically, the project would comprise the following components
(the proportion of the total baseline costs is indicated in parentheses):
(a)  Agricultural Development (45%), including:  (i) Technical
Development through soil conservation measures, improvement
of cropping practices and specialized technical training
for project staff; (ii) Inland Fisheries, including con-
struction of new fingerling stations and rehabilitation of
existing ones, and technical training and improvement of
fisheries extension; (iii) Livestock, including parasite
control, marketing improvement, extension of artificial
insemination, and technical support; and (iv) Incremental
Agricultural Credit.
(b)  Non-Farm Development (14%), including:  (i) Small-Scale
Enterprise Support, to develop and upgrade small enterprises
having good prospects for growth; and (ii) Incremental Credit.
(c)  Social Services Support (13%), including:  (i) Rural Health
to help implement a low-cost preventive health system based
on trained village voluntary health workers and school-
teachers; and (ii) Water Supplies by provision of rainwater
catchment tanks in areas of critical need.
(d)  Rural Infrastructure (15%), introducing new road building
methodologies for rehabilitation and upgrading of rural
roads.
(e)  Institutional Development (13%), including (i) Project Orga-
nization and Coordination improving provincial planning coor-
dination monitoring and evaluation and project preparation capa-
bility by strengthening BAPPEDA through reinforcement of
staff and training; and (ii) Community Participation through
communication and leadership training for Government staff,
project staff, and project participants.
4.06      Each component would be managed by a full time component manager
representing the appropriate Provincial Service. Such functions as planning
and budget preparation and monitoring, which cut across component lines would
be handled by a Project Coordination Unit to be established under the project
in BAPPEDA's Evaluation and Coordination Division (ECD). BAPPEDA would also
be responsible for overall project coordination and for securing co-operation
among the component managers and the Bupatis of GK and KP.



- 17 -
D. Detailed Features
Agricultural Development (US$5.1 million) 1/
4.07      Agricultural Technical Development.  The project would finance the
establishment of a Technical Development Cell (TDC) within the Provincial
Agricultural Service initially to supervise the implementation of the agri-
cultural activities under the project with the objective of the Cell becoming
fully integrated within the Service to develop future, large-scale programs
for upland areas. The Cell would be staffed with a multi-disciplinary
team of eight senior level staff qualified in agroeconomics, agronomy, soil
conservation, land use, tree crops, animal husbandry, and training. Because
of the extreme shortage of experienced, senior technical personnel at the
provincial level, an additional 72 man-months of internationally recruited
specialist consultancies would be provided to support the work of the project's
agricultural staff. The function of the TDC staff would be to plan, design
and provide direct leadership to the staff of the Agricultural Technical
Development Center and sub-centers (see below) to be set up under the project
and through these centers to implement agricultural development programs in
the pilot areas. They would prepare and assist with the implementation of
annual work programs, and, through BAPPEDA, arrange for the allocation and
timely release of appropriate budgets. The TDC would establish close liaison
with provincial and national-level agricultural research and development
bodies and later in the project assist BAPPEDA in follow-up project pre-
paration. The establishment of the TDC and its staffing by an agricultural
economist, senior agronomist, land use/soil conservation specialist and tree
crop specialist would be a condition of disbursement for the agricultural
components (Working Paper C-2).
4.08      Agricultural Technical Development Center (ATDC).  The project would
finance the establishment of an ATDC at Nglipar in Gunung Kidul to undertake
technical development and adaptive trials for upland farming. This would be
the main field station to be established under the project. The choice of
GK reflects the larger area of uplands in this Kabupaten, about 40,000 ha
(excluding the Karst area) of dry cropland and 23,000 ha of homegardens
compared with 10,000 ha of dry cropland and 28,000 ha of homegardens in KP.
Necessary buildings, equipment, and staff housing would be provided, and
the ATDC would be staffed by six well-qualified technicians specialized
in: agronomy, soil-conservation engineering and land use, farm manage-
ment, tree crops, animal husbandry, and agricultural training and 20 field
assistants. The Center would include three main technical sections: (a)
a land-rehabilitation and soil-conservation unit responsible for planning,
designing and implementing the various physical measures to control soil
erosion, e.g. bench terracing, drainage, etc.; (b) an adaptive research
unit to conduct trials and investigations at the Center and in farmers' fields
in the pilot areas to develop more productive, sustainable upland-farming
systems, particularly on the terraced land; (c) an agricultural training unit
whose activities would be directed to staff and farmer training. Initial
staff training and program design would be carried out with technical support
from the Central Research Agricultural Institute (CRIA) in Bogor, the Research
Institutes in Industrial Crops (LPTI), Horticulture (LPH), and Animal Husbandry
I/   Baseline costs excluding contingencies.



- 18 -
(LPP), the Agency for Agricultural Extension, Training and Education, (AETE)
and the Watershed Management Project in Solo, the Gadjah Mada University,
and the Directorate of Agraria. Assurances have been obtained that formal
arrangements will be concluded between these agencies and the Provincial
Government for the provision of these services. Extension activities gen-
erated by the project would be incorporated in the work programs of the
extension services being developed in Yogyakarta under the National Food Crops
Extension project and existing Rural Extension Centers (REC). The ATDC would
be absorbed eventually in the nationwide network of agricultural institutions
(Working Paper C-3).
4.09      Agricultural Technical Development Subcenters (ATDSC).  The project
would finance establishment of two subcenters in KP with similar functions to
the ADTC. These subcenters, one in the pilot area Hargo Tirto and the other
in pilot area Banjar Oyo, would focus on the needs of the specific area in
which they would be located, i.e. homegarden development in Hargo Tirto and
soil conservation and tree and food crop improvement in Banjar Oyo. The
organizational structure would be simpler than at the ATDC and would reflect
the major tasks of the subcenters. Four technicians, tree crops, soil con-
servation, agronomy, and training, and 10 field assistants would operate the
Hargo Tirto subcenter. Five technicians, agronomy, soil conservation/land
use, tree crops, animal husbandry and training, and 17 field assistants would
operate the Banjar Oyo subcenter. Eventually, they too would be absorbed into
the national program network of agricultural institutions (Working Paper C-3).
4.10      Nurseries and Seed Multiplication.  The project would establish
two central nurseries, one at the ATDC, Nglipar and the other at the Hargo
Tirto subcenter. These nurseries would produce forest and fruit-tree seed-
lings required for homegarden/tree-farming improvement and the establishment
of silvipasture and bench terraces (fuelwood and fruit-tree species to be
planted along the lip of terraces). In addition, nurseries would be estab-
lished to produce a portion of the legume seeds and grass cuttings needed
for establishment of pastures and protection of terrace risers. Selected
farmers would also be subcontracted to participate in the multiplication of
grass cuttings and improved food-crop planting materials which are not avail-
able on the market (cassava) or are of poor quality (maize). The nurseries
would be operated and supervised by staff of the ATDC and subcenters (Working
Paper C-3).
4.11      Soil Conservation.  The project would help build up the provincial
soil conservation capabilities, and as a first phase finance the construction
of bench terraces or rehabilitation of existing terraces, with associated
drainage and other physical works to minimize sheet and gully erosion on dry-
land slopes sufficiently benign to be suitable for annual cropping.  About
600 ha of dryland terraces and 50 ha of irrigated terraces would be con-
structed or improved in the three pilot areas including the construction of
small dams and diversion structures for irrigation purposes. In addition,
provision has been made for about 800 ha of dryland and 50 ha of irrigated
terraces to be constructed in an outreach program starting in the third and
fourth year of the project, respectively. Design and layout of the soil



- 19 -
conservation works would be undertaken by the staff of the ATDC and sub-
centers under the guidance and supervision of the TDC, while the TDC would
prepare detailed plans for the dams. With the assistance and under the
supervision of agricultural staff, construction would be carried out by
groups of local farmers, who would be paid a wage on the basis of a percent-
age of the market price of their labor sufficient to ensure their effective
participation. Wage payments would be administered by ATDC and ATDSC staff.
During appraisal, the wage payment percentage for labor on soil conservation
works was calculated at 50% of local labor cost for dryland terracing and
10% for irrigated terraces. The average cost of terracing is estimated at
Rp220,000/ha for new dryland bench terracing, RpI28,000/ha for rehabilitation
of dryland terraces and Rp5l,000/ha for irrigated terraces. However, it is
probable that these estimates would need revision during project implementa-
tion, as socially acceptable levels of payments are determined by experience.
As an additional incentive, grass/legume mixtures and tree seedlings for
terrace risers would be provided free of charge. Fertilizers would also be
provided free for the first crop grown after terrace construction to com-
pensate for the temporary drop in crop yield likely to occur due to dis-
turbances of the soil structure. Farmers would be responsible for maintenance
of the terraces and associated works, for which procedures would be worked out
with farmer groups and local officials. Assurances have been obtained that
Government will provide the Association with proposals for the maintenance of
soil conservation works by April 1, 1982 (Working Paper C-5).
4.12      Reforestation and Silvipasture.  The project would support a
program to establish forest trees or, where possible, silvipasture (forest
trees underplanted with permanent pasture associated with a cattle-fattening
enterprise) on very steep slopes (40% and above) or on steep slopes where
soils are too shallow for terracing. About 350 ha of marginal croplands
would be converted to this system at an estimated cost of Rp240,000/ha. Since
participating farmers would be encouraged to give up annual cropping on land
which had provided their livelihood, the project would hire them at 100% of
labour cost to establish and maintain the newly forested areas at income
levels commensurate with that previously obtained from their farms, until
their plantations start to generate income (Working Paper C-6). Silvipasture
is envisaged as an alternative means of generating income, but in those areas
near DIY where it has been initiated, it has met with varying degrees of
success. Present indications are that where the cattle-carrying capacity is
less than two animals/ha, beef enterprises based on silvipasture are not
economically justifiable. With the technical support of the Research Insti-
tute for Animal Husbandry the system would be carefully monitored and evalu-
ated during the initial three-year phase and the necessary conditions for its
success determined before being extended into other areas. Credit would be
extended to participating farmers for the purchase of animals for fattening,
provision of basic veterinary services, insurance, construction of cattle-
sheds, and fertilizer needed to maintain pasture production at high levels.
Labor inputs, planting materials, and the first year's application of fertil-
izer would be financed by the project. Because of the experimental nature of



- 20 -
this activity, provision would also be included for a cash subsidy to partici-
pating farmers of Rp 12,600 for the first animal and Rp 10,000 for subsequent
animals, which is about equal to the yearly interest charges on the cattle
credit. This provision would only be used in marginal sites chosen for silvi-
pasture as an integral part of sub-watershed development, where chronic cash
flow problems to participating farmers would otherwise occur (Working Paper
C-7).
4.13      Food Crop Trials.  To develop sound recommendations for upland
crops, the project would support an adaptive research and technical develop-
ment program for food crops in the three pilot areas including some 150 ha
of agronomic trials over the project period. A baseline survey would be
conducted in these areas to comprehensively ascertain the agro-socio-economic
resources in relation to production practices and levels. The trials work
would include: (i) experiments to isolate the effect of such production
factors as improved crop varieties, soil and crop management, and pest/
disease control - these would be carried out under controlled conditions at
the ATDC, its subcenters, and at collaborating research stations; (ii) trials
in farmers' fields managed by field staff of the ATDC and subcenters to test
cropping systems for their agro-economic potential; and (iii) final evaluation
of various new technological systems in farmers' fields under farmers' own
management to establish the effectiveness of new technology and farmers'
ability to manage new systems. The program would be the responsibility of
the TDC and would be carried out in collaboration with the CRIA, which would
provide technical assistance, staff, and training. Assurances have been
obtained that formal arrangements would be concluded between CRIA and the
Provincial Government to provide these services. New technologies developed
by the trials program and successfully tested in the pilot areas would be
formulated into suitable extension packages for incorporation into programs
for dryland crops through ongoing national Bimas/Inmas programs (para. 4.17)
thereby significantly adding to the development of dryland agriculture and
extensive areas of similar ecology in Java (Working Paper C-4b).
4.14      Homegarden Improvement.  The project's approach to homegarden
improvement would be (a) gradual replacement of some existing crops with
improved varieties of similar species or with more economic species, and
(b) improvement in the layout of crops and in husbandry pratices. Some
1,160 ha initially would be affected in the three pilot areas, at an esti-
mated average cost of Rp4O,000/ha, with provision for an outreach program of
an additional 650 ha starting in year 3 of the project. Varietal improvements
and introduction of new crops would be preceded by detailed surveys of home-
gardens to evaluate present production systems. Where necessary, soil stabi-
lization would be undertaken, with the project financing wages to farmers for
work on gully protection and waterway repairs.  The project would also finance
free distribution during the testing period of insecticides, fertilizers, and
seedlings of improved varieties of traditional crops and of such cash crops as
pineapples, cloves, and vanilla. It would also attempt to increase vegetable
production both for home consumption and sale by distribution of vegetable
seeds. Crop innovations would be accompanied by extension efforts to help
improve the layout and farming practices in the homegardens with particular



- 21 -
emphasis on family nutrition. The project would also finance technical sup-
port from the Research Institute for Industrial Crops (coconuts, cloves,
vanilla) and the Research Institute of Horticultural Crops (fruits, vege-
tables), who would assist the staffs of the TDC, ATDC and subcenters with
program planning, staff training, and the supply of improved plant material.
Gadjah Mada University would participate in the survey 9f homegardens in the
pilot areas. Improved techniques developed in the piloJt areas would then be
available for extension to homegarden areas of some 80,000 ha in DIY in sub-
sequent programs (Working Paper C-4a).
4.15      Land Registration.  It is expected that an important factor in
securing farmer participation in soil conservation and related works would
be the issuing of legal title to farm land. Presently, relatively few
farmers hold title to their land and the Government, through the Directorate
of Agraria, is pursuing ways of accelerating land titling. A special effort
would be made to accelerate the issue of land titles in the pilot and outreach
areas and the incremental costs to the Department of Agraria for this work
would be borne by the project. The TDC would work in close liaison with the
Department of Agraria in the execution of this work. The Governor's approval
to individual land registration in conformation with national policies and
programs was confirmed during negotiations.
4.16      Agricultural Technical Training.  Many of the project staff would
be newly recruited graduates from universities and high schools with little or
no job experience. Specialized on-the-job and in-service training for those
staff would be a key element to the success of the project. To assure that
due priority is given to training issues, that training needs are properly
assessed, and that training is relevant and practical, the staffs of the TDC,
ATDC and ATDSC would include training officers responsible for the identifi-
cation of training needs, arrangements for courses, and evalution of results.
They would be professionally supported by consultancy services provided by
the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training, and Extension. Preliminary
assurances have been obtained from the Central Research Institute for Agricul-
ture (CRIA), the Research Institute for Industrial Crops (LPTI), the Research
Institute for Animal Husbandry (LPP) and the Research Institute for Horti-
culture (LPH) to arrange for 180 man-months of technician on-the-job training
of relevant project staff, and to provide support by consultancy visits of
their specialist staff; the Directorate of Reforestation, would provide on-
the-job training based on the Upper Solo project in land use assessment and
soil conservation measures, (para. 4.08). Overseas training would include
three six-month courses in relevant dryland crops for senior agronomist staff
at IRRI, Philippines, in Years 2, 3 and 4 of the project, and one-month study
tours to the Minor Export Crops Research Institute, Matale, Sri Lanka, for
two tree crop specialists in Year 1 and Year 3 of the project to study the
approaches developed for establishing Kandy Gardens (Working Paper C-10).
4.17      Incremental Credit.  Incremental credit would be provided to cover
the additional demand for credit generated by the agricultural actions en-
visioned under the project for (i) seasonal credit for secondary crops and
mixed cropping; and (ii) for medium term credit for cattle fattening under
the proposed silvipasture system (Working Paper C-14). To ensure provision
of credit facilities after the completion of the project and to promote



- 22 -
replicability, existing credit facilities under national programs would be
used, e.g. the BRI's BIMAS Palawija Tumpang Sari program for mixed cropping
and PUTP program for cattle fattening, with appropriate adjustment in the
package content and terms, (see para. 1.04). Credit requirements would be
included in the project costs to ensure their timely provision, but not in
its financing, since funds are available to increase allocations to BRI.
4.18.     Inland Fisheries.  The fisheries component is designed to increase
both (i) the quantity of fish available for local consumption and (ii) the
disposable income of fish farmers in Gunung Kidul and Kulon Progo.  The
project would finance the build-up of fresh water fish-hatchery capacity
through the rehabilitation and expansion of the two existing Fisheries
Service hatcheries, and the construction of two new hatcheries (Bejiharjo,
GK, and Sedangsari, KP), for which land is being acquired by the Provincial
Government. Assurances have been obtained that plans and specifications
for the construction and renovation of these hatcheries would be prepared by
the Provincial Fisheries Service by October 1, 1979 and would be submitted
to the Directorate General of Fisheries for its review and approval before
construction commences. An estimated 56 new extension workers and hatchery
workers would be appointed under the project. Both new recruits and current
staff would receive refresher training at regular intervals. Farmer train-
ing particularly in fish pond management and rice cum fish culture would also
be increased, with three week-long courses given at each hatchery, each for
15-20 farmers. Vehicles would be provided under the project, both for the
new hatcheries and for extension workers (motorcycles). The Provincial
Fisheries Service would have responsibility for all project activities carried
out under the inland fisheries component and for coordinating the activities
with BAPPEDA and other concerned agencies. Although it is expected that full
benefits of the program will not be realised for 10 years, an increase in fish
production from the present 411 to around 900 tons, is projected by year five
of the project. Provision for a marketing survey is included in year four of
the project. The component would complement existing programs addressing sea
and brackish water fisheries development and provide a basis for expanding
inland fish production in other parts of Java (Working Paper C-8).
4.19.     Livestock.  The livestock component's three aspects which are com-
plemented by improved fodder production (see para 4.13) are improving genetic
quality of beef cattle through artificial insemination, modernization of the
existing cattle market, and disease and parasite control. Building onto
the nucleus program initiated in the Province under the national AI Scheme,
the project would establish a total of four new artificial insemination
subposts, in addition to the two now operating in KP and one in GK - two in
each Kabupaten in Year 1 and two in each Kabupaten in Year 4. Additional
inseminators would be trained at the Directorate's Training Institute of
Ungarau, Central Java. Consultancy services support in the associated
sterility program would be provided from Gadjah Mada University. To facil-
itate the rational planning of the expansion of AI, the present system of
monitoring and evaluation would be reinforced. The project would also pro-
vide financing for the renovation and improvement of the facilities at Siyono
livestock market, situated about 20 km from the pilot area of Gedung Poh.
Assurances have been obtained that plans and specification for these works
would be prepared by the Provincial Livestock Service by October 1, 1979 and
would be submitted to the Directorate General of Animal Husbandry for its



- 23 -
review and approval before construction commences. It would augment the
present vaccination program for Newcastle disease in poultry and initiate a
cattle-deworming campaign, both of which activities would be concentrated in
or near the pilot areas. Periodic surveys financed by the project, to be
conducted by staff of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the Gadjah Mada
University would monitor the incidence and severity of disease and parasite
infestation and the effectiveness of control methods with the objective of
incorporating these practices into extension packages in follow-up programs
(Working Paper C-9).
Non-farm Development (US$1.6 million)
4.20      Small-scale Enterprises Support.  To complement ongoing programs
which primarily provide credit to SSEs, a concentrated effort would be made
to firstly identify the specific constraints associated with the stagnation
and decline of this sector in DIY, and then to develop solution to these
problems. This approach is expected to regenerate and expand SSE activities
and could be replicable in other areas of Java facing similar difficulties.
To develop a strategy for development of small-scale enterprises, the project
would establish a Technical Cell composed of three senior specialists, (an
industrial economist, business management specialist and a technical officer,
one of whom would be the component manager), and six field workers within the
Provincial Industries Service (PIS) whose prime function would be to develop
recommendations for small-scale enterprise development. The Cell would
establish an information base pertaining to the small-scale enterprise sector,
covering its production and employment characteristics, major constraints, and
potential for expansion. Expertise for the necessary economic analysis would
be provided by two man-years of internationally-recruited specialists. The
information would be used to assist the PIS in directing its extension efforts
to those subsectors where growth prospects are good. To help implement
recommendations of the Technical Cell, the project would establish a Small-
scale Enterprise Promotion Committee which would coordinate the work of all
involved agencies. This Committee would be comprised of the Chairman of
BAPPEDA, the Provincial Heads of the Services of Industry, Trade, Manpower and
Transmigration, the Head of the Provincial Office of BRI, the Chief Executive
of the PPIK project and such other persons that the Governor may choose to
appoint. Besides addressing the direct problems of appropriate techniques for
given quality standards, raw material supplies, marketing, etc., both the Cell
and the Committee would identify and promote appropriate credit procedures to
suit the size and operations of local enterprises and related vocational
training programs; it is expected that the latter would be extended to the
project areas under a follow up project. The establishment of the Technical
Cell and staffing by the three senior specialists would be a condition of
disbursement for this component (Working Paper C-13).
4.21      Incremental Credit for Small-scale Enterprises.  Because capital
injection is required for substantial development of small enterprises, the
project would provide incremental credit for loans to small-scale entrepre-
neurs. As under Agriculture, existing credit facilities under national
programs would be used, without IDA financing since funds are available. To
ensure continued provision of credit after completion of the project, and to
promote replicability of project operations, credit would be channelled



- 24 -
through the BRI (KIK/KMKP and mini credit programs) which has the capacity to
reach down to the rural population through its extensive network of village
branches. The project would also initiate a training program for BRI staff in
the handling of small-scale productive enterprise loans and in the application
of simplified BRI procedures for small loans, so that access to credit becomes
easier for the small entrepreneur. The target is Rp 723 million of credit
releases to 4,200 enterprises over the project life (Working Papers C-13 and
C-14).
Social Services Support (US$1.4 million)
4.22      The project would include simple health services and water supplies.
Rural Health would:  (a) support pre- and in-service training, and furnish
basic kits of drugs and equipment for some 3,150 volunteer lay health workers
(kaders), to provide for at least two active kaders in 50% of hamlets (50 to
100 households) in GK and KP; (b) finance a series of training courses
for approximately 1,460 teachers, two in each of the 730 elementary schools of
the two Kabupatens, to increase the number and distribution of teachers who
can effectively teach health and nutrition subject matters. Kader training
would be undertaken by Kecamatan health center doctors and staff who in turn
would be trained under the project to conduct this training. Doctors' training
would include a ten-day training course at the provincial headquarters and
staff training would include two-day courses at Kabupaten training centers.
Training staff would be drawn from the Comprehensive Community Health Care
(CCHC) Department of the Faculty of Medicine of Gadjah Mada University and
Provincial and Kabupaten health professionals. The kaders themselves would be
trained at 13-week sessions, approximately eight hours a week. Though essen-
tially a volunteer program, the project would experiment with providing
non-monetary incentives for the kaders, such as uniforms, shoes, and badges.
Training of school teachers would be conducted in courses arranged jointly by
CCHC, and Provincial and Kabupaten health and education authorities. The
project would finance the provision of first aid kits to schools, stocks of
basic medicines, teaching manuals, audio/visual materials to support both
kader and teacher training, vehicles, and incremental staff. The executive
authority for the rural health development program would be the Provincial
Health Service (PHS). The PHS would contract with Gadjah Mada CCHC Department
for the provision of all pre- and in-service training under the project, for
ongoing technical assistance to the kader program, and for performance evaluat-
ion under a contract approved by the Association. The conclusion of this
contract would be a condition of disbursement for this component. The imple-
mentation of project activities would be a joint undertaking by PHS and CCHC
with PHS being responsible for overall management and coordination of CCHC
inputs (Working Paper C-16).
4.23      Rural Water Supplies.  Based on the earlier UNICEF assisted pilot
scheme (para. 3.10), the project would provide some 75,000 people with
convenient and safe drinking water through  construction of about 5,000
ferrocement rainwater catchment tanks of 9m each in the critically watershort
area of southern GK. The average cost per tank would be approximately US$135.
The project would finance construction materials not generally available
in the village (sand, cement, reinforcing steel, mesh wire) and train local
villagers for the construction teams, thus providing about 75,000 man-days



- 25 -
of paid employment over a three-year period. Responsibility for project
implementation is expected to be contracted by PHS to DIAN DESA, with the
PHS managing and supervising the contract, which would be approved by the
Association. This component has been prepared in close collaboration with
DIAN DESA and takes full account of DIAN DESA's implementation capability.
If an alternative agency were chosen, the component may need to be redesigned
and adjusted to fit its capacity. By September 1, 1979, the Government would
furnish the Association with a list of criteria for selection of sites for
installation of water tanks, and a work plan for the first year of operation.
The conclusion of a satisfactory contract by PHS would be a condition of
disbursement for this component. (Working Paper C-17).
Rural Roads (US$1.8 million)
4.24      The project would finance equipment for a demonstration village
road improvement program which during the project period would upgrade to
all-weather standards about 215 km of selected village roads in GK and KP at
an average cost of US$6,600/km including bridges and culverts. The project
would strengthen the Kabupaten capability for road construction and mainte-
nance and introduce and demonstrate low-cost village road construction designs
and techniques with emphasis on labor intensive methods. First priority would
be placed on roads into areas where activities initiated under the agricul-
tural components of the project would temporarily take land out of production
and consequently require participating farmers to be provided with an alterna-
tive source of income. In addition, some would be selected in the Karst area
of southern GK to improve general conditions there.  Villagers would par-
ticipate in the scheduling of work and selections of roads to be improved.
Overall management of the project would lie with the Head of the Public Works
Service (DPUK) in each Kabupaten.  The project would provide four man-years
of internationally recruited technical assistance to introduce gravel road
construction methods and to help each of the two DPUKs improve their tech-
nical and organizational capacity in rural road planning, designs, cost
estimates, other engineering assistance, and supervision and control. The
DPUKs, in consultation with villagers, will select roads to be improved,
schedule work to be done and formulate a long-term village road maintenance
plan. Assurances have been obtained that Government would provide the Assoc-
iation with this plan by April 1, 1982 (Working Paper C-18).
Institutional Development (US$1.4 million)
4.25      Project Organization.  The direct management of each project com-
ponent would be the resonsibility of a full time component manager who would
be a senior official appointed by the Governor upon the advice of the Head
of the participating Service (Agriculture, Industry, Health, and Public
Works); the appointment of managers would be a condition of disbursement
for each component. Each component manager would be directly responsible to
his Service Head for day-to-day operations, and to BAPPEDA for planning,
programming, and budgeting of project activities. BAPPEDA would be responsible
for overall project coordination, consolidating project budgets, preparing
requests for approval by the Governor for the authorization of the release of
project funds, major procurement, disbursements, monitoring, evaluation and



- 26 -
follow-up project preparation. In order to strengthen BAPPEDA's capabilities
in these activitie, BAPPEDA would establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
in its Evaluation and Coordination Division. The head of this Division will
be the Project Coordinator; informal assurances were obtained that the Associ-
ation would be consulted on future appointments to this position. The project
would finance 14 additional BAPPEDA staff, for the PCU, including a project
coordinator, financial officer, budget officer, procurement/disbursement
officer, monitoring officer, two bookkeepers, an evaluation officer supporting
clerical staff and later in the project, a planning officer. In auaition,
three man-years of internationally recruited technical assistance for project
management and organization and on-the-job training of BAPPEDA staff would
be provided. The establishment of the PCU and appointment of the project
coordinator, financial officer and budget officer would be a condition of
credit effectiveness. A special fund for unforeseen studies and innovations
to complement project activities and follow up project preparation would be
included in BAPPEDA management costs. These funds would be allocated by
BAPPEDA to the appropriate agencies upon satisfactory proposals for studies
and innovations, and would provide for additional international and local
consultancies to assist BAPPEDA in preparing follow-up rural development
projects. Detailed proposals for the use of this fund would be submitted to
the Association for approval, and any expenditures from this fund in excess
of US$15,000 will only be made after prior consultation with and approval of
the Association (Working Paper C-19).
4.26      Monitoring and Evaluation.  To ensure that both monitoring and
evaluation would be an integral part of the project's management system, two
of the staff provided under the project would be for the positions of monitor-
ing officer and evaluation officer within the PCU. The monitoring officer
would be responsible for assisting component managers in setting up targets,
designing report formats, and coordinating data collection and processing.
The evaluation officer would be responsible for analysis of information
collected by the monitoring system and for coordination of the activities of
independent agencies which might be contracted to help evaluate the project
with particular emphasis to assessment of lessons learned and inclusion of
the findings of evaluation in follow up project preparation. The project
would finance such contracts and in addition 16 man-months of internationally
recruited technical assistance to help BAPPEDA design and implement the
monitoring and evaluation activities. The data generated by these operations
would be used in a mid-term review of the project by Government and the
Association which is scheduled for about December 1981. Based on this review,
activities would be rescheduled as necessary, the appropriate activities and
location for the additional agriculture development program would be deter-
mined (para. 4.03), and recommendations given on the timing and emphasis for
the follow-up project preparation work (para. 4.25). Assurances have been
obtained from Government that a report on the mid-term review would be sub-
mitted to the Association for review and consultation before the additional
agricultural program is initiated (Working Paper C-19).
4.27      Community Participation Training.  In components which introduce new
ideas, technology and resources into villages from the outside, full partici-
pation of villagers is crucial if development innovations are to be accepted,



- 27 -
assimilated and sustained. The importance of this is demonstrated in the
terminal report of the UNDP/FAO Upper Solo watershed project 1/ which
concluded that "extension experience in the first subwatersheds tackled
indicates that work arrangements applied through the traditional top-down
method do not result in farmers' involvement". The project therefore would
finance development participation training intended to train Government
cadre and project staff how to best elicit farmer involvement and how to
maintain a continued dialogue concerning development issues with project
participants. Villagers would also receive leadership training, with special
emphasis on the village and the hamlet leaders, who, as farmers themselves,
would be expected to elicit cooperation and involvement of other farmers in
project activities. The training system would draw on existing concepts of
self-help and on hamlet-level community organizations, and would attempt to
motivate farmers by demonstrating that project actions would contribute to
the community welfare. Courses would be conducted at the Kabupaten, Desa,
and Pedukuhan level focusing on techniques to evoke and maintain community
involvement. Training would also include an initial orientation and awareness
phase, followed by various workshops throughout the life of the project.
Existing Kabupaten-level community development workers of BANGDES would have
responsibility for implementation and supervision of this component in the
project areas. Their main task would be to ensure that community participa-
tion becomes an integral part of all project actions. The project would also
finance, on an experimental basis, a small hamlet self-help fund for 300
selected Pedukuhan in the project area to test the effectiveness of direct
funding of locally initiated development activities. The fund would finance
community mini-projects not already covered by existing financing. It is
expected that training, follow-up and technical assistance would be provided
under contract, approved by the Association, to the Provincial Directorate of
Rural Development by Yayasan Indonesia Sejahtera (YIS). YIS has been closely
associated in the preparation of this activity the design of which takes full
account of its implementation capability. The position is therefore similar
to the water supplies component in that if an alternative agency were chosen,
this activity may need to be redesigned to fit the assessed capacity of the
alternative agency. The conclusion of a satisfactory contract by the Provin-
cial Directorate of Rural Development whould be a condition of disbursement
for this component. The policies, criteria and procedures for expenditures
under the hamlet fund would be submitted to the Association for review (Work-
ing Paper C-1l).
E. Cost Estimates
4.28      Total project costs are estimated at US$19 million of which US$2.7
million (14%) is the foreign exchange component. Because of the tax-exempt
status of implementing agencies, these costs do not include local, provincial
or national taxes. Unit costs are based on local prices prevailing in the
Yogyakarta area. Physical contingencies of 20% have been applied to the
rural road construction costs; 10% to all other construction costs; and
5% to vehicle costs. Local baseline costs which have been estimated as
of November 1978, are exceptionally low in US Dollar terms following the
1/ Ibid para. 2.1.



- 28 -
50% Rupiah devaluation, in November 1978. However, domestic inflation is
expected to be substantial during the early part of the project, and price
contingencies for this project need to be higher than usual. Total price
contingencies over the five-year implementation period would be 65% of the
baseline costs, assuming the following rates of price increase: (a) local
costs at 30% in 1979, 20% in 1980, 15% in 1981-82, and 10% thereafter; and
foreign costs at 7% throughout. Price contingencies include an allowance for
the eventuality of a one-year lag in the implementation of the agricultural
technical development component. Details of the cost estimates are presented
in Annex 1 and summarized in Table 4.1.
4.29       The direct costs of foreign consultants (salaries, overseas allowance
and company overhead and fee) amount to US$5,600 per man-month for long-term
consultants and US$6,400 per man-month for short-term consultants. Including
indirect costs (travel, housing, office and miscellaneous expenses), the total
costs are respectively US$7,000 and US$8,000 per man-month. Total costs of
local consultants would be about US$650 per man-month.



Table 4.1 : PROJECT COST SUMMARY
-------- Rp Millions -------       ---------US$'000 --------__        % of Foreign      % of Total
Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total        Exchange        Base Costs
Agricultural Development              2,636        570        3,206      4,220        910         5,130         18                  45
Technical Development                 1,988        496        2,484      3,180        790         3,970         20                  35
Livestock Development                   111         19          130        180         30           210         15                   2
Inland Fisheries                        213         55          268        340         90           430         21                   4
Credit                                  324        -            324        520         -            520          -                   4
Non-Farm Development                    877        105          982      1,400        170         1,570         11                  14
Support Services for Small-Scale
Enterprises                             139        105          244        220        170           390         43                   4
Credit                                  738        -            738      1,180         -          1,180         -                   10
Social Services Support                 783        115          898      1,250        190         1,440         13                  13
Rural Health                            315         78          393        500        130           630         20                   6
Rural Water Supplies                    468         37          505        750         60           810          7                   7
Rural Roads                             742        344        1,086      1,190        550         1,740         32                  15
Institutional Development               555        351          906        890        560         1,450         39                  13
Project Organization and
Coordination                            323        306          629        520        490         1,010         49                   9
Community Participation                 232         45          277        370         70           440         16                   4
Total Base Costs                      5,593      1,485        7,078      8,950      2,380        11,330         21                 100
Physical Contingencies                  206         25          231        330         40           370         11                   3
Price Contingencies                   4,368        183        4,551      6,987        293         7,280          4                  65
TOTAL COSTS                          10,167      1,693       11,860    16,267       2,713        18,980         14                 168
r



- 30 -
F. Financing
4.30      Financing of the project costs would be shared as follows:
Table 4.2: PROPOSED FINANCING
I.D.A.    Govt.    Total        I.D.A.    Govt.    Total
- Rp millions-----             - ------US$'OOO- ---- 
Civil Works              1,470       599    2,069        2,352       958    3,310
Vehicles and Equipment    463         92       555         740       148       888
Tech. Assistance and
Staff Training           1,497        -     1,497        2,396        -     2,396
Project Preparation
and Pedukuhan Develop-
ment Fund                   255       108      373         424       173       597
Incremental Operating
Costs                    3,805      1,552   5,357        6,088    2,483    8,571
Credit                     -        2,009   2,009           -      3,214    3,214
Total               7,500      4,360  11,860        12,000   6,976   18,976
The proposed IDA credit of US$ 12 million would finance 63% of total project
costs.  It would cover the full foreign exchange costs (US$2.7 million) and
local costs (US$9.3 million).  GOI would provide the remaining Rp 4,360
million (US$7 million). Project beneficiaries would contribute in varying
proportions and amounts to the cost of on-farm development. These contri-
butions would all be in kind and therefore have not been included in project
cost estimates. All project funds except credit would be fully allocated
under the national budget, with local expenditures being pre-financed by
government out of annual budget appropriations in accordance with the new
budgetary system and procedures for financing foreign-assisted projects
setforth in Ministerial Decree No. 387, 1978, Ministry of Finance. Prior
to the beginning of each fiscal year, BAPPEDA would prepare a project work
program and budget proposal to be reviewed by the Steering Committee for
Foreign Assistance within the Ministry of Home Affairs. Upon the advice
of this committee the Minister of Home Affairs would request the Minister
of Finance to authorize and release project funds from annual budget appro-
priation into a Special Project Account in the BRI regional office in



- 31 -
Yogyakarta. Funds would be released from this account to be spent for com-
ponent activities upon the recommendation of BAPPEDA and the authorization
of the Governor. Each quarter, BAPPEDA would prepare a summary of project
expenditure, documented according to standard Government procedures and
acceptable to IDA, which would be sent through the Directorate of Regional
Development to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance would
then send a certified statement of project expenditure to IDA for reimburse-
ment. Assurances have been given that these new procedures, agreed upon at
appraisal, have been approved at all requisite levels of Government (Working
Paper C-19).
G. Procurement
4.31      The purchase of vehicles and equipment would be bulked where possi-
ble in contracts of US$100,000 and more (totalling US$1.0 million including
contingencies), and be awarded under international competitive bidding proce-
dures in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of
the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Contracts for not
more than eight vehicles for start-up purposes would be awarded on the basis
of the Borrowers normal procedures. Contracts for such purchases which cannot
be bulked in packages of US$100,000 or more, which are not suitable for ICB,
would be purchased through normal GOI procedures which are satisfactory; the
aggregate amount of such contracts would not exceed US$0.5 million equivalent.
All proposed purchases of vehicles and equipment exceeding US$100,000 in esti-
mated value and all studies and innovations (para. 4.25) exceeding US$15,000
in estimated value would be submitted to IDA before bidding and award.
4.32      Construction costs of buildings and the rehabilitation of existing
buildings are too small to be of interest to international contractors. These
works would be carried out following local competitive bidding procedures
which are satisfactory. Construction of rural roads would be carried out by
force account using village labor.
H. Disbursements
4.33      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed at the following rates:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
vehicles and equipment;
(b) 100% of the ex-factory cost for locally manufactured
equipment procured under ICB;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for training and both
foreign and local consultants; and



- 32 -
Table 4.3: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(US$thousands)
Disbursements
Undisbursed
I.D.A Fiscal Year                                           Balance
During        Cumulative
Quarter
1980
1st quarter             -                                   12,000
2nd quarter             -                                   12,000
3rd quarter             -                -                  12,000
4th quarter             500              500                11,500
1981
1st quarter             600            1,100                10,900
2nd quarter             900            2,000                10,000
3rd quarter             800            2,800                 9,200
4th quarter             500            3,300                 8,700
1982
1st quarter             500            3,800                  8,200
2nd quarter             600            4,400                  7,600
3rd quarter             600            5,000                  7,000
4th quarter             600            5,600                  6,400
1983
1st quarter             600            6,200                 5,800
2nd quarter             700            6,900                 5,100
3rd quarter             800            7,700                 4,300
4th quarter             800            8,500                  3,500
1984
1st quarter             600            9,100                 2,900
2nd quarter             400            9,500                 2,500
3rd quarter             400            9,900                 2,100
4th quarter             500           10,400                  1,600
1985
1st quarter             400           10,800                 1,200
2nd quarter             400           11,200                    800
3rd quarter             300           11,500                    500
4th quarter             200           11,700                    300
1986
1st quarter             150           11,850                    150
2nd quarter             100           11,950                     50
3rd quarter              50           12,000



- 33 -
(d) 40% of locally procured vehicles not purchased under ICB; and
(e) 70% for all other project items excluding credit.
Disbursement applications for expenditures under categories (a) through (d)
would be fully documented; disbursements for expenditure under (e) would be
against statements of expenditure by BAPPEDA, with the supporting documenta-
tion retained by BAPPEDA and made available for review by IDA supervision
missions. Table 4.3 (page 32) indicates estimated disbursement by fiscal
year.
I. Accounts and Audits
4.34      Assurances have been obtained from the Government during negotiation
that the Yogyakarta Provincial Directorate of Finance would: (a) maintain
separate accounts for this project; (b) provide BAPPEDA with monthly project
financial statements; (c) engage independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and
(d) submit audited financial statements, along with the auditors' comments
and opinions to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Introduction
5.01      The project would support the Government's goal of strengthening
the provincial project coordination capability vested in BAPPEDA, whilst
observing the existing government organizational structure. Further, the
project would build up the implementation capability of provincial agencies
to carry forward an expanded development program in the future. BAPPEDA's
capability in program formulation and coordination would be strengthened
by: the creation of a Project Coordination Unit in BAPPEDA; regular meetings
of the component managers and Bupatis of GK and KP under the Chairman of
BAPPEDA to review and coordinate project activities; basing the authoriz-
ation of funds upon the recommendation of BAPPEDA; and, reinforcement of
BAPPEDA by the appointment under the project of eight additional senior staff
and the provision of four man-years of technical assistance. Direct manage-
ment of the various activities would be the responsibilty of the participating
Provincial Services, reinforced as needed by the project. For the Livestock,
Fisheries, and Village Roads components, existing staff in these Services
would be the component managers. New appointments would be made under the
project for the managers of the Agricultural Technical Development, Small-
Scale Enterprises, and Health/Water Supplies components. These new posts are
expected to become permanent as their functions become established in the
Services during the project period. It is expected that these innovations
will succeed in strengthening BAPPEDA and the line agencies to adequately
undertake their key role in provincial development and would serve as a model
for future projects in DIY and for replication elsewhere in Indonesia.



- 34 -
B. Project Coordination
5.02      The design of the planning, management and coordination of project
activities has taken full account of the existing Provincial Government struc-
tures, and emphasizes the reinforcing of these where needed. Responsibility
for overall project management and implementation guidance would rest with
the Governor. The appropriate Provincial Services would be responsible for
executing their respective components and would fit these into existing func-
tional responsibilities.  BAPPEDA would have the key role of overall project
coordination, detailed forward planning and securing coordination among the
different components. The task of follow-up project preparation allotted
to BAPPEDA under the project, would be a logical continuum of BAPPEDA's
coordinating function.
5.03      Annual Work Programs.  In collaboration with component managers
and their Service chiefs, BAPPEDA would prepare consolidated annual project
work programs and related budgets for approval by the Governor and also
prepare quarterly and annual project progress reports for review by the
Governor. By January 1 of each year BAPPEDA would send to the Association
or review, copies of the approved annual work programs for the coming year.
5.04      Inter-Agency Coordination.  The PCU would establish day-to-day
relations with the component managers and their Service Heads for planning,
programming, budgeting and monitoring of project activities, (para. 4.25),
which would provide basic information for project coordination. In addition,
the component managers, the Bupatis of GK and KP, the Project Coordinator
and such other persons as the Governor may appoint, would meet at least
quarterly under the Chairman of BAPPEDA to review and discuss implementation
matters.
5.05      BAPPEDA.  Under the direction of the Project Coordinator, the PCU
would systematize the assembly of data for detailed planning of components
and budgets, and the formulating of these for presentation by BAPPEDA to the
Governor for approval. Planning would be based on close monitoring of act-
ivities and expenditures and the preparation of periodic progress reports for
the various activities. The Unit would also be responsible for consolidated
processing of major procurement and for disbursements. In addition, the PCU
would initiate the design of selected evaluation studies and supervise their
execution.
C. Project Implementation
5.06      All components would be implemented by existing Provincial agencies.
The direct management of components would be by Component Managers appointed



- 35 -
by the Governor on the advice of the Heads of these agencies. Each Component
Manager would be directly responsible to his Head for day-to-day operation of
his component, the preparation of annual work programs, budget proposals,
quarterly progress reports and monthly financial reports and after approval by
his Head, submitting these to the Project Coordinator in BAPPEDA. Where
appropriate. he would also provide proposals and technical inputs for follow-up
project preparation activities. A schedule of early and key events is summar-
ized in Table 5.1 (page 39).
Agricultural Development
5.07      Implementation of the agronomic trials and pilot programs in soil
conservation works and minor irrigation, reforestation/silvipasture and home
garden improvement components would be the responsibility of the proposed
Technical Development Cell (TDC) to be established within the Provincial
Agricultural Service (PAS). During the project period, the cell would
concentrate exclusively on agronomic activities under the project which are
pilot for a broad-based agricultural development program for the province.
It is foreseen that once this program gets underway, the TDC would be suffi-
ciently strengthened to take responsibility for a much expanded program of
upland agricultural development. Under the project, the Head of the TDC would
be the Component Mlanager. Project activities would be implemented through the
Agricultural Technical Development Center (ATDC) and two Sub-Centers with TDC
staff preparing detailed work plans, assisting and supervising field staff
during implementation. To enhance its expertise for carrying out these
activities, the TDC would establish close linkages with the related national
agencies in these disciplines. Thus, the Central Research Institute for
Agriculture (CRIA) would play a dominant role in agronomic trials; conducting
baseline surveys on which to develop a systematic trials program, assisting
with trials design; providing three field technicians on secondment to the
project and on-the-job training for project staff; follow-up consultancies
to assist with trial evaluation and forward planning. The Directorate of
Reforestation would provide on-the-job training for project staff in soil
conservation and land use planning through its Upper Solo project and the
Research Institute for Animal Husbandry (LPP) would provide support for fodder
(silvipasture) development through supply of planting materials, project staff
training and field consultancies. For the home garden improvement operations,
the Research Institutes for Industrial Crops (LPTI) and Horticulture (LPH)
would make available improved cultivars for reproduction in project nurseries,
provide on-the-job training for project staff in nursery and husbandry tech-
niques and field consultancies to assist the TDC in developing improved
packages and directing trials. Additional reinforcement of TDC staff would be
through the provision of 72 man-months of internationally recruited special-
ists in agronomy and land use planning/soil conservation. The natural and
social science faculties of the University of Gadja Mada (Agriculture, Veteri-
nary Medicine, Botany, Forestry and Social), would also provide technical
support in selected areas.
5.08     Miost of the physical work of the field operations would be carried
out on farmers' land in the pilot areas using their families' labor. Project



- 36 -
field staff, working in collaboration with the local government officials
(the lurah and dukuh) would develop close relationships with farmer groups
and 'contact' farmers. Through a concurrent participatory training program,
both project staff and farmers would initially combine their talents in the
detailed planning of local goals for the various activities; thereafter,
project staff would assist and supervise the participating farm family labor
in the execution of the work. Participatory training would continue apace
with the trials and pilot programs so that as improved agronomic packages and
farming sytems are developed, they can be locally rapidly adopted.
5.09      The TDC and field staff would also maintain a close interface with
staff of the existing agricultural services and particularly agricultural
extension.  In the development of improved agronomic packages, periodic
progress reporting and recommendations would be made to the Directorate
General, Food Crops through the Head of PAS, for the extension of packages
when these have been identified. Similarly, the results of the pilot programs
in soil conservation, silvipasture and home gardens would be reported to the
respective Directorates General and positive results formulated into extension
packages. At the Provincial and Local level, the TDC and ATDC and Sub-Centers
would serve as focal points for seminars and workshops at which project staff
would update staff of the existing agricultural services on progress and
interchange views on priorities and orientation of developmental work.
5.10      Inland Fisheries.  The Provincial Fisheries Service (PFS) would
have executive authority for the inland fisheries component. The technical
sub-section of the PFS would be responsible for the construction and rehab-
ilitation of the hatcheries, transport of fingerlings and supervision of
extension workers. The sub-section for information and training would
be responsible for the training programs.
5.11      Livestock.  The Provincial Livestock Service would have the respons-
ibility for the livestock sub-components. The existing provincial Artificial
Insemination Coordinator would supervise the work of the inseminators and
develop their work schedules. A data processing assistant would be appointed
to his staff under the project to monitor the results of the program. The
Kabupaten Market Service would make the necessary arrangements for the ren-
ovations of the Siyono livestock market in GK and would continue to operate
the market and receive the market fees. The coordination of the expanded
campaign to control Newcastle disease in the project area; and the invest-
igation into the best method and value of deworming cattle would be the
responsibility of field officers to be designated by the Service, who would
work in close cooperation with the staff of the ATDC and Sub-Centers. Surveys
would be conducted by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine at Gadjah Mada
University, who would also provide consultancy services and laboratory support
for these activities.



- 37 -
Off-farm Development
5.12      Small-Scale Enterprises.  The Provincial Industries Service (PIS)
would have overall responsibility for the coordination of activities proposed
under this component. A Technical Cell, to be established within the PIS
would undertake survey, planning, and extension work; the head of Cell would
be the component manager. The Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), would be respons-
ible for credit disbursement for small-scale enterprise loans under the
KIK/KMPK and mini-credit schemes. BRI would also be responsible for organizing
special training programs for its sub-district and village-level branch staff.
To ensure coordination among the agencies participating in activities proposed
under this component, the project would establish a Small-Scale Enterprises
Promotion Committee comprised of the Heads of the Provincial Services of
Industries, Trade, Manpower and Transmigration, the Head of the provincial
office of BRI, the Chief Executive of the PPIK Project and the Head of the
Technical Cell. This committee would be headed by the Chairman of BAPPEDA.
Social Services
5.13      The three health sub-components--Kader, school health, and water
supply--would be organized as a unit under the executive authority of the
Provincial Health Service (PHS). Overall project execution would be the
job of a Component Manager with medical qualifications and public health
experience. The Component Manager would be assisted by three part-time
assistants, one for each sub-component. At the Kabupaten level, three full-
time Component Coordinators would work under the supervision of the head of
the Kabupaten health department.
5.14      The arrangements for day-to-day supervision at the Kabupaten level
would vary with each sub-component. For the Kader program, it would be
provided under contract by the CCHC of Gadjah Mada University (para. 3.09(c)),
which would provide all pre- and in-service training and ongoing technical
assistance. CCHC would work in cooperation with Kabupaten health supervisors.
For the school health program, responsibility would lie with the school health
supervisor from the Kabupaten Health Office. The rural water supply component
would be supervised by a Kabupaten health officer but day-to-day implementa-
tion is expected to be contracted to DIAN DESA (para. 3.12) who would provide
practical on-the-job training of the village construction teams; assist local
authorities in site selection; arrange for purchase, storage and delivery of
materials; ensure quality and proper allocation of materials; provide tech-
nical assistance and supervision of implementation; and report, on a monthly
basis, to the Head of PHS.
5.15      To ensure coordination among all aspects of the rural health activi-
ties, an Advisory Committee would be formed including the Provincial Head of
Health Services, the Component Manager and his assistants, a representative
of CCHC, a representative of DIAN DESA, (or approved alternative agency), and
a public health officer of PHS.



- 38 -
Rural Roads
5.16      The responsibility for management and implementation of the village
roads improvement program would lie with the Chiefs of Public Works (DPUK)
for the Kabupaten of Gunung Kidul and Kulon Progo. Each DPUK, in consultation
with villagers, would select road links to be built and schedule the work to
be done. Two internationally recruited rural road construction specialists,
responsible to the Kabupaten Chiefs of Public Works, would provide technical
support and training to staff of the two DPUKs.
Development Participation
5.17      The Provincial office of the Ministry of Home Affairs' Directorate
of Rural Development (BANGDES) would have overall administrative responsibil-
ity for the component. Executive responsibility for development of training
materials, training, and follow-up activities is expected to be contracted to
Yayasan Indonesia Sejahtera (YIS), who would also undertake to administer the
experimental hamlet self-help fund. YIS would establish a community develop-
ment team of two experienced field workers and a supervisor in each of the two
project Kabupaten. Their function would be to provide professional guidance,
assist hamlet and village leaders to plan village development projects, to
develop strategy for effective participatory methodologies and communication
techniques, and to provide sustained support for these activities to communi-
ties affected by the project. YIS would also provide training to Kabupaten
and Kecamatan officials, project staff, and village leaders in an effort to
improve development communications between government cadre and the villagers.
Technical, administrative and logistic support would be provided by YIS'
headquarters staff in Jakarta and by its field office staff in Solo, Central
Java. The project component would cover ten Kecamatan; five in Gunung Kidul
and five in Kulon Progo, and in each of them, BANGDES would assign a Kecamatan-
level commmunity development officer who would be responsible for overseeing
and monitoring YIS activities, and to provide official linkage with the Bupati
of each Kabupaten, the Provincial BANGDES office, and BAPPEDA.
Staffing
5.18      To assist the implementing agencies who currently do not have
the in-house capability to carry out the proposed work programs, the project
provides for 44 man-years of local and expatriate consultants during project
implementation. Assurance has been given that consultants would be employed
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
5.19      The timely recruitment and posting of staff would be critical to
effective project implementation.  A summary of incremental staff requirements
are shown in Table 5.2 (page 40). All recruitment of senior staff would be
conducted on the basis of detailed job descriptions. Assurances have been
obtained that qualified and experienced individuals would be appointed to all
senior staff posts listed in Table 5.3, (page 41), and these positions would
be filled as indicated in the table.



- 39 -
Table 5.1: SCHEDULE OF EARLY AND KEY EVENTS
Key           Target
Event                                                Responsibility       Date
1.   Establish Project Coordination Unit,             Governor and
and appoint Component Managers                        BAPPEDA           Aug. 1979
2.   Conclude contracts for Community                 BANGDES
Participation activities, the Water Supplies          PHS and
component and the Health component                    BAPPEDA           Aug. 1979
3.   Secure formal agreements with CRIA, LPTI,
LPH, LPP, AETE and Solo Watershed project for
staff training and technical assistance, and,
for CRIA only, staff secondment                       PAS               July 1979
4.   Establish Technical Development Cell (Agric)  PAS                  Oct. 1979
and Technical Cell (SSE)                              PIS               Oct. 1979
5.   Finalize plans/specifications for fish
hatcheries and Siyono livestock market                PAS               Aug. 1979
6.   Finalize first year workplans for all            BAPPEDA and       Oct. 1979
components                                            Participating
Agencies (PAs)
7.   Initiate baseline surveys of farming
systems/homegardens                                   TDC               Aug. 1979
8.   Invite tenders for project buildings             BAPPEDA and PAs  Aug. 1979
9.   Commence construction program, including
nurseries                                             BAPPEDA and PAs  Oct. 1979
10. Complete appointment of key senior staff
for all components                                    BAPPEDA and PAs  Oct. 1979
11. Initiate crop trials and pilot hillside
program                                               TDC               Nov. 1979
12. Mid term review of project activities;
proposals for expansion of agricultural devel-
opments and soil conservation works maintenance;
detailed procedures for roads maintenance             BAPPEDA and PAs  Dec. 1981



Table 5.2 : INCREMENTAL STAFF AND CONSULTANCIES FINANCED BY THE PROJECT
Staff (Number)                                              Consultancies (Man-Months)
Total
Senior Tech.  Junior Tech.   Senior Admin.   Junior Admin.                        Inter-
III(a) Upwards 1(a) to II(d)  IlI(a) Upwards  I(a) to II(d)                Local  national  Total
1.  Agriculture. a.  TDC                     8                 2            -                9              19      88      82       170
b.  ATDC and Sub-          6          35 to 61_-          -               18        59 to 85
Centers                                   -_-
c.  Fisheries              -          30 to 61            -                         30 to 61       4                 4
d.  Livestock              -           6-to 10            -                          6 to 10      20                20
2. Non-Farm Development.
a.  Small-Scale            3                 6            -                3               12     20      24        44
Enterprises
3.  Social Services.                                                                                                   3/
a.  Rural Health           1                 4            -                4               9    130-       -       130
b.  Water-Supplies.l/      7          18 to 24            -                3        28 to 34       -       -         -
4.  Rural Roads.                                               -            -                -              -        -      48        48
5. Institution Development.
a.  Community 2/                                                                                    4/
Participation-            2                 4            -                                       90-
b.  BAPPEDA                -                 -         8 to9               6        14 to 15       -      52        52
Totals                27        105 to172          8 to 9             43       183 to 251   352      206       558
1/  Staff employed for first three years; expected to be provided by DIAN DESA under contract for services
2/  Staff employed for whole project period are expected to be provided bv YIS under contract for services.
3/  Estimated requirements;  consultancy services to be provided by GMU CCMC under contract for services.
4/  Estimated requirements;  consultancy services expected to be provided by YIS under contract for services.
5/  35 to 61 indicates progressive increase in numbers during the 5-year project.
.1,   .K                                         C       d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 41 -
Table 5.3     SENIOR STAFF TO BE APPOINTED UNDER THE PROJECT
Activity                            Post                 To be employed by
Technical Development Cell  Agricultural Economist                     November 1, 1979
Senior Agronomist                                  it  1I
Agronomist                                April 1, 1980
Land Use/Soil Conservation Specialist    November 1, 1979
Land Use Officer                          April 1, 1980
Tree Crops Specialist                     November 1, 1979
Animal Husbandry Officer                  April 1, 1980
Training Coordinator/Planner
Agricultural Technical      Agronomists (2)                            January 1, 1980
Development Center and      Land Use/Soil Conservation                    if  It  it
Sub-Centers                 Specialists (2)                              it   .    if
Tree Crops Specialists (2)
Small-Scale Enterprises     Industrial Economist                       February 1, 1980
Business Management Specialist         , 
Technical Officer
Rural Health and            Component Manager                          October 1, 1979
Water Supplies              Assistant Executive Manager, Kader
Program (Part-time) 1/                       " 
Assistant Executive Manager, School
Health (Part-time)  1/
Assistant Executive Manager, Water
Supplies (Part-time) 1/
Before Project
BAPPEDA                     Project Coordinator  1/                   Effectiveness
Project Financial Officer                    "     "
Project Budget Officer                       "     i
Project Monitoring Officer                January 1, 1980
Project Evaluation Officer                   "         it
Procurement/Disbursement Officer             i         it
Bookkeepers (2)                              i
Project Planning Officer                  July 1, 1981
1/ Staff already in post.



- 42 -
VI. MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMI INCOMES
Marketing
6.01      The pilot areas for upland technical development, Gedung Poh, Banjar
Oyo, and Hargo Tirto, produce mainly for subsistence consumption, with small
amounts of surplus fruit, vegetables, coconut sugar and firewood, being
sold in local and Kecamatan markets. These markets are connected by competi-
tive channels through Kabupaten markets to large central markets in Yogyakarta
City and Muntilan (Central Java). Because the incremental production attribu-
table to project activities derives in large part from the avoidance of major
declines in production, additional production would be small in absolute
terms. Furthermore, additional marketed surpluses for any single product
would be minute in relative terms because the project areas contribute less
than 1% of the total produce sold in Kabupaten markets. Thus, marketing is
not expected to present any problems for the additional marketed surpluses
which would result from project activities. Similar considerations would
apply to an expansion of upland development of larger areas in a possible
follow up project. Most of the incremental production of food crops would be
locally used to offset current inflows to the area (para. 2.10); products from
home gardens, (fruits, vegetables, etc.), would be marketed through customary
outlets. However, for certain cash crops such as cloves and vanilla, there
may be a need to assess the adequacy of the present marketing system and to
introduce measures to relieve any constraints which may inhibit production.
This aspect would be addressed by the project and, depending upon the outcome
of such studies, appropriate measures would be included in proposals for fol-
low up projects (para. 4.25).
Prices
6.02      In the financial analysis all farm inputs and outputs, with the
exception of family labor, are valued at constant end-1978 farmgate prices
which are based on a recent survey conducted by the PAS. Sample checks con-
ducted by the appraisal mission indicate that these prices would give reason-
able estimates of expected farmgate prices in the project areas (see Annex 2,
Table 1). Family labor spent in off-farm activities is valued at wage levels
which prevailed in the project areas at the end of 1978.
6.03      In the economic analysis, prices for rice, cassava and maize have
been derived from the Bank's Commodity Division's forecasts for world market
prices adjusted for transportation and marketing costs. All other commodities
and inputs have been valued at actual farmgate prices.
Farm Incomes
6.04      Given the experimental nature of terracing and silvipasture and
the uncertainties associated with the underlying technical coefficients,
the analysis of farm models as presented below is necessarily speculative.



- 43 -
Nevertheless, the models give a useful indication of the expected direction
of development and of the benefit levels which might accrue from investments
in erosion control.
6.05      Variations in soil fertility and degree of erosion among different
project areas and among different elevations in the same area are likely
to lead to large differences in the impact of proposed project activities on
farm incomes. These differences are of major importance in the decision
process of the very poor target farmers who of necessity must avoid risky
ventures. Thus, a series of farm models has been prepared to measure the
differential impact of project activities on farmers' incomes, to test
different sets of hypotheses about farmers' behavior and to estimate likely
incentives required to ensure farmers' participation. The most tentative
among these models is the one for homegardens; Annex 2 shows one example of
a 0.3 ha home garden and its possible development as a result of project
activities. For illustrative purposes, Annex 2 also presents two more
detailed models of 0.7 ha each, one for silvipasture and one for terracing,
together with their assumptions regardng prices, yields, input requirements
and cropping patterns.
6.06      The silvipasture model reflects a situation common in the most
distressed areas, (areas of shallow soils on steep slopes), where agricultural
incomes are projected to fall to zero in 45 years' time if erosion is allowed
to continue unchecked. Under the project, farmers' incomes would increase
with the introduction of reforestation coupled with cattle fattening. Al-
though these enterprises present farmers with internal rates of return which
range from 15% to 35%, there may still be problems of sufficient incentives
because incremental family incomes would be highly negative in the early years
of the project.
6.07      Many farmers in the project areas are near the minimum level of
income required for subsistence. They would therefore, be reluctant to
replace annual food cropping, which provides immediate and relatively depend-
able albeit low returns, with a silvipasture system which requires a higher
degree of investment and indebtedness but promises higher returns in future
years (six years minimum). To offset this risk aversion which is reasonable
but relatively high, an incentive payment would be made under the project
equal to the cost of establishing seedlings and pastures and meeting marginal
cash flow requirements for cattle fattening which cannot be met during the
first five years of the project from official credit programs. Provided these
payments are made, the silvipasture farm models suggest that very poor farmers
could reasonably be expected to participate in the project.
6.08      The terracing model is based on data accumulated over a four-year
period from the Solo Watershed Project. Without the project, incomes from
agriculture in such areas, (upper elevations on gradual slopes), which are
suitable for terracing are expected to decline at an average rate of 1.5% per
annum. Under the project, rehabilitation of bench terraces combined with the
introduction of better agricultural practices would reverse this trend,



- 44 -
replacing low-paying off-farm employment (Rp. 75 per day) with productive
on-farm activities for farmers who currently face a future of declining
agricultural incomes.
6.09      The results of these two illustrative farm models are summarized in
Table 6.1 for the prevailing average family size of five. Present per capita
incomes range from Rp. 8,000 on steep slopes where erosion has been the most
serious to Rp. 9,500 on the gradual slopes. In year ten without the project
per capita incomes are projected to fall to Rp. 7,000 and Rp. 9,000 respec-
tively. With the project at full development, total per capita incomes would
rise by 90% to Rp. 13,000 for those who participate in reforestation and
cattle fattening--activities which entail somewhat higher risk--and by 20% to
Rp. 10,500 for farmers who would benefit from terracing works. Although
incomes could almost double for some project participants during the life of
this first-phase project, they would not yet reach the national absolute
poverty level of Rp. 40,000 nor the current provincial per capita income level
of Rp. 36,000. Further increases in the living standards of this target
population would come about through a combination of: sustained agricultural
development set in motion by this project; follow-up action under subsequent
phases of Yogyakarta's rural development program; and the effects of Govern-
ment's transmigration program. However, from the local farmers' point of
view, the immediate impact of increased incomes accompanied with a more secure
future would be a major step forward.
Table 6.1: SUMMARY FARM FAMILY BUDGETS (in Rupiah)
Total
Agricultural    Non-farm    Total Family  Per Capita
Farm Family Budegt             Income         Income         Income        Income
Present
Silvipasture                  14,000         26,000       40,000          8,000
Terracing                     24,000         24,000       48,000          9,500
Future Without Project /1
Silvipasture                   8,000         26,000       34,000         7,000
Terracing                     21,000         24,000        45,000         9,000
Future With Project /1
Silvipasture                  40,000         25,000       65,000        13,000
Terracing                     31,000         21,000        52,000        10,500
/1   In project year ten, silvipasture incomes have been averaged over
the seven year growth cycle for trees.



- 45 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
Benefits
7.01      The project would test and extend a number of experimental rural
development actions designed to reduce poverty in the two poorest Kabupaten
of Yogyakarta. The agricultural components would (a) test the economic and
social viability of agronomic and hill-farming techniques developed in the
FAO Solo Watershed Project; (b) lay a sound basis for future protection
of agricultural land that is presently subject to serious erosion; and (c)
help to reduce large-scale siltage of irrigation works downstream. The
development participation activities would add the essential social dimension
to complement the technical solutions being sought under the project. The
health component would expand a system of improving rural health conditions
through voluntary health workers and reach up to 400,000 people at an annual
per capita cost of US$0.30. The village water supply program would provide
potable water at an average annual cost of US$0.50 per beneficiary for about
75,000 people in the drought area of Kabupaten Gunung Kidul. The village road
component would introduce and demonstrate labor-intensive gravel road con-
struction technology and strengthen the Kabupaten Public Works Department for
improving the technical standards and maintenance of rural roads. The small-
scale enterprise component would initiate a system of technical assistance for
small-scale entrepreneurs and improve their access to credit. The project's
management and coordination system would introduce financial procedures and a
planning, monitoring, and evaluation system designed to increase the effec-
tiveness of Yogyakarta's provincial development programs. The immediate
benefits of these actions would reach the poorest people in Gunung Kidul and
Kulon Progo, the two poorest Kabupaten in DIY. Thus, the project would be in
accordance with the policy of GOI to bring the rural poor into the mainstream
of development by providing the productive means for them to help themselves.
7.02      Long-term economic benefits of the project stem from the potential
for expanding these rural development programs to other areas throughout the
country. For example, in just the two Kabupaten affected by the project the
agricultural components could be expanded to cover an estimated 70,000 hec-
tares of land which will be severely damaged through erosion over the next
20-30 years if effective means of watershed protection are not quickly
developed and effectively extended. The health system could eventually be
used to reach the majority of people who live in rural Java. The rural road
construction and maintenance management system could reduce the current rapid
rate of deterioration in rural roads built under village self-help programs--
approximately 2,000 kilometers in the two project Kabupaten alone.
7.03      More immediate economic benefits would flow from, first, the sub-
stitution of productive on-farm employment for low-paying non-farm activities
for 1,000 families in Gunung Kidul and 1,600 families in Kulon Progo. Second,
provision of approximately 400,000 person-days of temporary employment per
year during the life of the project from the road construction and the village
water supply components. Third, the fisheries component would create a



- 46 -
permanent source of protein through an estimated 470 tons of incremental fish
production per annum at full development. Finally, the most important physical
benefit would be the increased availability of foodstuffs from food crop and
homegardens improvement and fisheries which would have a significant impact on
local nutrition levels.
Economic Analysis
7.04      Though the component activities are of an experimental nature, an
indicative economic analysis has been performed on the agricultural and road
components to show the levels of economic benefits which Indonesia could
reasonably expect from such investments. For a project of this type, any
point estimate of rate of return is necessarily subject to considerable uncer-
tainty; the major factors are treated in some depth through sensitivity
analysis. No formal economic analysis has been carried out for the supportive
components that would address the basic needs for health, drinking water and
nutrition--although a least-cost approach combined with the limitation to
critical priority items ensure that the benefits of these programs far out-
weigh their costs; likewise, no formal economic analysis has been carried out
for research activities because the benefits will accrue to future investment.
7.05      The cost of the agricultural supporting services, including physical
contingencies, necessary to establish silvipasture, supervise terracing
construction and extend better agronomic techniques have been allocated on a
per hectare basis, assuming that the infrastructure would eventually serve
14,000 hectares. Physical input costs have been calculated at market prices.
The resulting investment costs are expressed in end-1978 constant prices
adjusted to exclude taxes. Foreign costs and benefits have been valued at the
official exchange rate (US$1.00.= Rp. 625). The cost of unskilled labour has
been assessed at 50% of the recorded wages in non-farm activities and in off
season agricultural activities, except for the least productive areas prone to
drought, where 30% of the recorded wages has been used. The period of con-
struction and build-up of benefits in the analysis are based on the implemen-
tation schedules presented in Working Papers C-2 and C-18. Full project devel-
opment would occur in the seventh year for silvipasture and in the sixth year
in areas suitable for terracing. Benefits are projected over a 30-year
decision horizon.
7.06      On the basis of the foregoing assumptions, the economic rates of
return are estimated at 13% for silvipasture, 14% for terracing, and 11% for
the rural roads component. This latter figure understates the net benefits of
the roads component because the value added of induced production has not been
quantified. If GOI's desire to raise the incomes of its poorest income groups
were to be quantified in a social analysis, the internal rates of return would
be much higher.
7.07      Sensitivity analysis was used to determined how much negative devi-
ation from appraisal estimates in respect of critical variables is permissible
before the economic basis for the project is undermined. With the critical
rate of return taken as 10% (the best estimate of the opportunity cost of



- 47 -
capital in Indonesia), the assumption here is that unless such a return is
realized, the Government would, on purely economic grounds, not wish to
proceed to an expansion phase of the program without experimenting with
alternative approaches to the development of upland agriculture. Results
indicate considerable sensitivity to shortfall in project benefits (road-user
savings or crop yields and prices), with permissible shortfalls varying from
10% to 20%, while on the cost side the range is from 10% to 30%. The results
underline the difficulty of initiating effective development programs in such
marginal areas. They also indicate that the proposed approach, involving an
experimental and small-scale first phase, is fully appropriate in the Light of
the evident risk and uncertainties. Considerable attention has been given in
the detailed project design to minimize these risks. First, flexibility in
project design would allow adjustments during project implementation in view
of new findings. Second, the emphasis on local participation would enhance
the involvement of beneficiaries in project implementation and thereby increase
the probability of project success. Finally, close monitoring and evaluation
will be an additional safeguard.
7.08      Despite the risks inherent in development efforts addressing mar-
ginal and neglected areas, the project fully deserves support. It represents
a modest but critical effort to improve living conditions in some of the
poorest regions in Indonesia. While small in scale, the project promises to
help resolve some of the most difficult development issues on the island of
Java: how to halt cumulative deterioration of the meager resource base in
crowded upland areas. With the safeguards built in to project design, these
risks are worth undertaking.
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
7.09      Given the experimental nature of the project and the poverty of
the target group, an initially low level of cost recovery is to be expected.
Except for the terracing component in which farmers would contribute about
40% of establishment costs, all incremental capital costs would be financed
by GOI. This level of contribution by project beneficiaries is considered
acceptable because their per capita incomes would remain below the critical
consumption level for rural Java of Rp. 48,000 throughout the life of the
project. However, the government's incremental fiscal burden after project
completion would be low because most incremental operating costs would be
borne by the project beneficiaries who would produce the incremental agricul-
tural production, own and maintain the water tanks, become the volunteers
who would staff the health component, and contribute voluntary labor for
maintenance of the roads.
7.10      It is expected that levels of cost recovery would increase over-
time. A major objective of the agricultural component is to develop more
efficient versions of the least-cost approaches proposed for initial use
under the project and to determine the appropriate levels of farmer's con-
tributions of labor time towards the capital costs of establishing new
terraces and replanting trees. The outcome will significantly affect cost
recovery because labor represents approximately 80% of total establishment



- 48 -
costs. Prior to the expansion of these activities to larger areas, it is
confidently expected that unit costs would decline as more efficient tech-
niques with lower labor requirement are discovered. Consequently, the
proportion of total capital costs contributed by farmers is expected to
rise during the life of the project.
Environmental Impact
7.11      The project would have a positive environmental impact in the two
Kabupaten.  Reforestation and soil conservation would serve to arrest soil
erosion and the rapid deterioration of soil fertility in the areas selected
for treatment. Without these efforts the basis for sustaining the liveli-
hoods of many thousand upland farm families would be lost through unchecked
destruction of the land resource. Monitoring of these activities would be
carried out by the TDC to measure the arrest of soil erosion and changes in
stream flows.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a) formal arrangements would be concluded between the Provincial
Agricultural Service and provincial and national agricultural
research and development institutions for staff training and
technical support (para. 4.19);
(b) Government would provide the Association with plans and proce-
dures for ensuring the maintenance of road works carried out
under the project (para. 4.24) and, plans for maintenance of
soil conservation works (para. 4.11), by April 1, 1982.
(c) before initiating the additional agricultural program, an in-
depth review of the project would be conducted by Government
and submitted to the Association for review and consultation
(para. 4.26).
8.02      Assurances were also obtained that:
(a) by September 1, 1979, the Provincial Health Service would
furnish to the Association a list of criteria for the
selection of sites for the construction of rainwater catch-
ment tanks, and a workplan for the first year of operation
(para. 4.23);
(b) qualified and experienced individuals would be appointed
on a timely basis to all senior staff posts (para. 5.19).



- 49 -
8.03      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be the
establishment of the Project Coordination Unit and appointment of its key staff
(para. 4.25).
8.04      Conditions of disbursements would be:
(a) for each component, the appointment of a full time component
manager (para. 4.25);
(b) for the agricultural and small-scale enterprise components,
the establishment and key staffing of Technical Cells in
the respective services (para. 4.07 and 4.20); and
(c) for the rural health, rural water supply and participatory
development components, the conclusion of satisfactory
contracts for the provision of these services by the
Provincial Health Service and Provincial Directorate of
Rural Development respectively (paras. 4.22, 4.23 and 4.27).
8.05      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$12.0 million on standard
terms to the Republic of Indonesia.



- 50 -                                                  ANNEX I
Table 1:  SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                           Table 1
PY 1         PY 2       PY 3           PY 4           PY 5        ------T-:-
------------------ Rp Million ----- ----------------           Rp Milli..    GIL,?
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT                        501.3         424.5     479.5           802.2         998.4       3,205.9         _
Technical Development                           401.6         320.3     404.6           704.9         923.4       2,754.8      -.
Technical Development Cell                      166.6         181.1     183.1           113.4          50.1          700.4      1,.C
Hargo Tirto A.T.D. Sub-Center & Pilot Area   71.4              37.6       64.3           75.4          70.3          319.0        51
Banjar Oyo A.T.D. Sub-Center & Pilot Area    60.4              31.0       55.2           76.2          89.8          312.6        500
Nglipar ATDC & Gedung Poh Pilot Area             94.0          55.1       87.4          119.9         143.1          499.6        799
Technical Training                                9.3           9.5        8.2            7.7            2.7          37.3         60
Credit                                             -             -         6.3           66.3         198.3          270.9        433
Expansion Phase                                     -            -          -           246.0         369.0          615.0        984
Livestock Development                            42.9          21.3       30.5           51.6          36.9          183.1        293
Market Reconstruction                             20.6           -          -              -              -           20.6         33
Artificial Insemination                          18.2           6.5        6.6           18.0          11.0           60.3         96
Newcastle Disease Control                          2.3          1.7        1.4            1.7            1.1           8.0         13
Worm Control in Cattle                             1.8          3.0        7.3           12.1           17.0          41.2         66
Credit for PUTP Program                            -           10.1       15.3           19.8            7.9          53.1         85
Inland Fisheries                                 56.7          83.0       44.4           45.8          38.0          267.9        429
New Hatchery - Bejihorjo, GK                     33.8          23.8        7.8            8.4            8.4          82.2        132
New Hatchery - Sendangsari                          -          31.7       14.5            7.5            8.2          61.9         99
Rehab. of Banjararum Hatchery                     8.8           3.6        3.9            4.0            4.0          24.3         39
Rebab. of Ponjong Hatchery                          -          12.3        3.9            4.2            4.4          24.7         39
Training, Extension and Admin.                   14.1          11.7       14.3           21.6          13.0           74.8        120
NON-FARM DEVELOPMENT                            145.0         130.1      203.8          275.8         226.8          982.2      1,572
Support Services for Small-Scale
Enterprises                                     102.0          29.8       28.8           66.8          16.8          244.2        391
Credit for Small-Scale Industry                  43.0         101.0      175.0          209.0         210.0          738.0      1,181
SOCIAL SERVICES SUPPORT                         204.1        254.o      319.1            60.8          59.3          897.3      1,436
Rural Health                                     94.7         109.6       68.1           60.8          59.3          392.5        628
Kader Program                                    59.1          83.7       48.1           40.8          39.3          270.9        433
School Health Program                             9.6          11.4        5.5            5.5            5.5          37.3         60
Management                                        26.1         14.6       14.6           14.6           14.6          84.3        135
Rural Water Supplies                            109.4         144.4      251.0             -              -          504.8        808
RURAL ROADS                                     302.6         265.8      205.3          186.1         126.1        1,085.9      1,737
Gunung Kidul Road                               178.9         127.9      111.1          101.3          84.0          603.2        965
Kulon Progo Road                                123.7         137.9       94.2           84.8          42.2          482.7        772
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                       23i.1         170.0     157.5           199.5         149.5          906.5      1,451
Project Organization and Coordination           146.0         120.2      109.7          151.7         101.7          629.2      1,007
Community Participation                          85.1          48.8       47.8           47.8          47.8          277.3        444
TOTAL BASELINE COST                           1,384.1      1,244.1   1,365.1          1,524.4       1,560.1        7,077.8    11,325         -
Physical Contingencies                           52.1          50.6       57.0           39.5           32.1         231.3        370
Price Contingencies                             139.0         451.0      838.0        1,327.0       1,796.0        4,551.0      7,282
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            1,575.2      1,745.7   2,260.1          2,890.9       3,388.2       11,860.1    18,976
*     Discrepancies in totals due to rounding



Table 2: PRO3ECT COSTS BY YEAR AND ACCOUNT CATRGORIRS
(BlP illion)
*                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~Foreign Exchange
Uni    it S     CO st     Na. of Units    Fri           ZxP             En3          Py4          fy5                TotaL   T               A.ont.t
(Rp '000)
I,  CAPITAL COSTS
A.  Conatrccltn
cInet/outletchsncnrin                       m        2.5;3.0            2,690         3.6         3.8             _             _            _                  7.4           0
McL.x inle/natiets                          No.      15-20                177         1.8          1.5'           _             _            _                  3.3            0
C.nnect aig channels                        a        0.1                  470         0.2         0.2              -            -            -                   .5           0
Onilni gate vaivet                          Na.      1.5-3905             284         0.4         0.41            _            _             -                   .8           0
Piping & nato- enpplp facilities            a        0.6-3.33           2,403         6.7         2.0_                                                          8.7          50          4.3
Tcnhs                                       N..      50-70              5,030        36.4       109.4             210.0         _            -                355.9            0         _
E--tva-Inn no ponds                         m3       0.5               33,000         8.8        80.              -            -             -                 17.5           0
N--nery pnnda                              Nt.    (3-5/n2)                  6         5.0         5.0             -             -            -                 10.0           0
Penning                                     =        2.0-6.0            1,950         6.3         0.8             _            _             _                  7.1           0
Officnn, stones, hnoses & other bldg..               nary                            69.1        13.5               2.5         _            -                 c5.I          10          8.5
Si   &rvlies                                                                          0.0          -              - -  -                                        8.1           0          -
R.ad  -nnnroction                          ki        2.2                  215        52.8        99.0             116.6        107.8         96.8             473.0           0          -
Bridges & Ioned forde                       n        35/500               513        27.0        30.0               3.0         50.0         -                110.0           0
Mii_nellonnns Ineililir-                                                              6.0         2.9               6.9         13.2         17.1              46.2           0
Sub-total             1/                                                         222.3        277.8            339.0       0171.0         113.9          1,03.6             1.1       12.8
Physi-In  c2nningncniec                                                              28.5        37.6              45.6         27.9         21.1             160.7            1.1        1.0
Sub--tol                                                                         260.8        315.1            384.6         198.9        135.0          4,294.3            1.1       14.6
Price centlngneniee                                                                  38.0       135.0             260.0        185.0        157.0             775.0           0.1        0.7
T.cal 4/                                                                         i2 .8        430.1            644.6                      20 92.0        2,069.3            0.1       '5=i3
B.  Vehicles
a  4 -ehinleF                               N.       5250-6750             26       127.5         6.8               6.7         _            _                141.0          90        126.9
Tannkn                                      Na.      7500-15,000            8        03.0         -               -             _            -                 93.0         100         93.0
Van, einibos, residnncal/nffice
n.hiNle. No.                                       3750                   1         3.8         -                                                             3.          100          3.8
Motcreynles                                          600                  110        42.6         6.4               2.4         16.8         _                 70.2         100          70.2
Trgilers                                             500 -750               5         3.3         -               -             -            -                  3.3         100          3.3
Sub-tot=l                                                                        270.1         15.1              9.2          16.8         -               311.2           95.5      297.1
Pllyninol cactingenciet (519                                                         13.5          .0                .5           .0         -                15.6           95.5       14.9
iab.lccnl                                                                        283.6         15.9              9.6          17.6         _               326.8           95.5      312.0
Price   onticieng ias                                                                12 0         2.0              2.0           3.0         -                 21.0         90.3        20.1
T.alo  4/                                                                        2926          j, 1172226    _ 2246Z,L                                                    2=5i5      112iL
C.  Eqnip-ent, Fprnat- e-  and
Othan Mitariale
Indued brending &  rc hairal eqpt.          cnit    400:500                 4       26.4           .9                .8        -               .03             28.2         100         28.2
14c9xined pnllecing naehine                 Ne.      9 000                  1        _            9.0             _             _             _                 9.0         100           9.0
Generator and  .rnsare regulator<           No.      nary                  13        1.6          0.2              0.2         -              _                 2.0         100          2.0
Tr-inini eqeipatni                                                                    .9          -               -            _              _                  .9          20            .2
pnrai..r.s and nina  -qucpaent                                                      37.1         15.3             10.0           3.8          -               46.2            0          0
Roadcnntracninnequipment                                                            72.0          -               -            _              _                72.0         100         72.0
Oihnr                                                                                2.4           .2.              '2         -                                2.0          00          2.2
Otheiatcl                                                                       140 4          25.85            11.2          3.8            .03           101.0           42.7      113.4
Price canningenicos                          _   _          __       _       =    _ 9.0           7.0             70.0           3.0          0.0              26.0          18.b        4.9
otal 4/                                                                         149.4          32.iF            18.2          6.8            .03           207.C           57.2      118.5
D.  TechnicaL Aoeistlncn 4 Teaming
i:nnnslranry and 7i::Oien                                                          290.6        310.4            249.1         117.9         36.6          1,es.o0           93        904.5
Training                                                                            79.7         59,.0            40.7          21.9         16.1             21 7.4          0          0
Slb-tIniL                                                                       3705          36 .                86    7   1390.          352 .           20 1 4          74.0      904.3
Pr,ce cantinOencine                                           ~~~~~        ~~~~~            ~~~~~         ~~~~~        ~~~~~           ~~~~~ ~        ~~~25.  6.06.0  60.0-  35.0 089    275.0  44.0  120.0
Tntal                                                                           395.6         438.t            375.B        199.7          87.7          1,497.4           68.5   1,025.3
0.  Credit and Special Fn-de
Credit                                                                              43.0        111.1            196.6         295.1         416.2         1,062,0            0          -
Sp-ncal fucd5                                                                       15.0         15.0             15A.         L15.0          65.0            225.0          33         75.0
Se,b-tatnl                                                                       5B.0         126.1            211.6       410.1          401.2          1,307.0            5.0       75.0
9.0         56.0            143.0        3468.0         341.0         1,095.0            1.8       19.6
Toial 4/                                                                          67.0        180.1            354.6        758.1        1,032.2         2,382.0            4.0       94.6
I 1.  OPERATING COSTS
,A,  Onlalses,  onnE , Wans. All-oa-nsc et.                                            155.2         179.6            192.4        164.8          167.6            597             0          -
H.  iacncyn. Land Iicglstratlcn, Stnnltnning 4 Tnnlnetlcn                               27.9         55.9              51.3         60.9          23.3            219.3           0
C.  FanF Imprnvement Activitice                                                         12.3          50.2            131.2        428.0         593.0          1,214.0           0
D.  In-nerlin Talnitis                                                                   3.9          6.5               5.0          4.7           3.5             23.5           0
E.  T-rnincg M.ernlao                                                                   12.3           5.7              5.8          5.9            5.9            35.6          20           7.1
F.  Sopplies & MiOa. Materials                                                          36.2         55.9              40.5         46.9           51.1           231.6           10         23.2
G.  Vehicle O   n                                                                       38.0         38.7              39.4         30.0           31.8           179.7           25        44.9
0.  Machine, Tnsinleatn 4 Buildicg 0   M                                                 2,3           5.1              6.2          6.2            6.2            26.3           25          6.6
I.  Mi-ceooaa...n V. pe. seo                                                            24.8         32.0.             31.5         33.0          29.9            152.1           0          -
ibn-tclaL             2/                                                        312.8        430.2             504.3        783.0          912.3         2,942.b            2.8      01.6
Physical ccniin0ecciec-                                                             10.1         12.2             10.9         10.6           11.0             55.0          15          8.2
Sih-t_tal                                                                       322.9        442,4             315.2        793.0          023.3         2,997.6            3         90.0
Price contingencies                                                                 46.0        104 a              hi"n       336n         1089 a n          Ion              1         in..6_9
Otal 4/                                                                         368.9         626.4            055.2      1      51.8_   L986~ 4L  5          L6L         12         106_ 9
Tltal B.neline Coats                                                            1,384.1       1,244.1          1,365.1      1,524.6        5,560.1         7,077.8           01      1,484.0
onral Phlysicel CarlaneniesIr                                                       52.1         50.8             57.0          39.5          32.1           231.3           11         24.9
Sib.toial                                                                     1,436.2      t,294,7           1,422.1      1,563.9        1,592.2         7,309.1           20.7 7  ,509 7
Total Price cnti- gsni . n                                                         139.0        451.0             838.0      1,327.0          796.         4                  4.0      183.0
Octal Projeci Cnsio 4/                                                          1,573.2_    1,745.7            2,260,0      2,890,9        2,358.e2e      11,8601            0=4_.3   1.692,.
1/  207. physIcal cantingetny for r-nd .cta.. c tinc  10% physi-al  -oetinge-ry fox a11 other item.
2/  102. far f ,GP and 0 and 5% Ean 1.
3/  Inelade.n aalLcan.e nf Rp. 76  iillion En  a one yea-  deloy in the cpppletien of the erosl- n c. nteni component.
4/  Diacrepancy in totals One to -ending
5/  Prnject p      _eperatnlc, hamlet devnlopmntt and sp-tinl stadi-s f.ndn.






AiNEX I
Table 3:  ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY ACTIVTIFIS AND ACCOUNT CATEGORIES                                                                  Table 3
(Rp million)
Ctral   VillOge                   Total
Grit Cost                    Agei,    liveaot-k    TSne1d          C-unity       sail-Goalo   aural   health    Water          Project   Baseline  Phy.i-l Contiegeocy   F-rigan Eca.n"ge
USat     Re '000)   No of Units  Develoyment  Oevelopment  Fisheries   PortioiPation  Oroorpritot   .ade   Eeoaram   SupPlY    Mouoaersoat   Costa 1/               *     monun        2       Amocot
S. CaPital Costs
A.  C-otruotioo
Inlot/outlet eheenels             m        2,5;3.0       2,690                                                                                                                          7 _  74  _  _  _  _  _  _  0.4  10  .7  0
M orix inlutafotlets              No.      15;20            177           -            -          3.3             _               _         _         _            _                    3.3         10      .3           0        _
Conerctiegtchaneels              ms        0.1             470                        -             5             _               _         _            _      _                        .5        10       .1           0
Outlet gate -1ues                 No.      1.5-39.5         284           -           _             .8            -               _         _            _      _                        .8        10       .1           0
Piping  and water supply
fatilttie                      m       0.6-3.33       2,403           4.5           .2         4.0             _               _         _         _         _           _           8.7        10       .9           50      4.
T1oks                             No.      10-671        1,030            -            -          5.                                                            0.0                   355.8         L     3.6            0
Sme_vet on of po-ds               m3       O.5          30,000            _            -         17.3                     -                           -         -           -          17.5        10      1.1             
Nursary po-do                     No.    (3-5/u )             6           -            -         10.0                                                                                   I _  _  _  _  10.0  10  1.0      0
Fescing                           m        2.0-6.0       1,950           3.0          2.4         1.7             _              -          _         _         _            _          7.1        10       .7           0
Oftiets, ator-s, housco cod
other bhildtege                         vary                          45.01        11.3        21.8             -             2.5        4.6                  _           _         85.2         10      8.5          10        8.5
site.and -erri-                            vary                          7.8           .3          _       -                      -         - _       _            _                    8.1        10       .8           0
Reed .oestrut-tio                klo       2,200            215           -           _            _              _               _      473.0         _        _                     473.0        20    94.6            0
Bridg.es cd pared ro-ds           r        35/500           513           _            -           -              _               -      110.0                                        I  110.0    10    11.0            0
dlsuellaueoas  of-ilitius                 vary                           2.2          5.4          _              _              -        38.6        _         _           _         46.2         10     4.6            0
Soh-total ~"                                                          62.5        19.6         72.8             -             2.5      626.2        _       3O3.0          _     1,133.6              160.7                    12.9
B. Vehiclee
4   4 vehicles                    Nu.      5230-6750         26         54.0          5.2        18.7             _             10.5      21.0       10.5       10.3       10.5       141.0         0      7.1          90      126.9
Truths                            No.      7500-1S,000        8         15.0          -            _              -              -        60.0        -         18.0         -         93.0          5     4.7         100       93.0
VTo,  hinibus 6 residoetial/      No.      3750               1           -           -            -               -              -              -              -           3.8         3.8          5      .2         100        3.8
office vohielos
Motoreyeles                       No.      600              110         24.0          4.8          9.6           9.6             3.6         -       17.4        1.2         -         70.2          5     3.5          100      70.2
T-ailes                          No.      500                5           _     -                  -              -               -        2.3         _         1.0         -          3.3          5      .2          100       3.3
slb-tutr-                                                             93 .0        iO.c        28.3            9.t            14.1      83.3       27.8      30.0        14.3       311.2               15.6                  297.2
C.  Equipost. F-utiture & other
Tndue.d broediog cud tsuheiaol
equlp.ent                               400;500                       25.4         1.0          1.8              -              -              -              -            -         28.2                 -           100      28.2
Metoeied polleting ..achi..      No.      9000                           -            -           9.0             -              -          -         -         -           -          9.0         -       -           100       9.0
Geter toes, otoks & regulators   No.       vacy                          1.6           -            .4            -                    -          -              -           -          2.0         -       -           100       2.0
Trainiug oqaipot _r                                                                    -           .9             -                                                                       9         -                    20         .2
Furoiture and misc, oqeqpmeet                                           10.1         11.2         2.4             -               .6       27.6       1.0       2.5         5.6        66.2         _-                    0       0
Rued contstr ion equipment        No.-                                                             -              -               -        72.0        -         -           -         72.0         -       -           100      72.0
Other                                                                    2.4           -            .4             -              -          _         _         _           -          2.8         -       -            80       2.2
Sub-total /1                                                          44.5         12.2        14.9             -               .6       9.6        1.0       2.5         5.6       181.0                 -                   113.1
D. Tetheie1 Asistaste
cod Training
Coesultacy ePd stodiec                                                 380.0          2.0          5.0          36.0           100.0      210.0      30.0       -         237.0    1,005.0           _      -            90     904.5
Traiting                                                                37.31         5.8          -            72.7            45.0         -       44.6        -          12.0      217.4         _0 _
8uh-total -/                                                         422.3         7.8          3.0          108.7           149.0      21.0       74.6                      0    1,222.4                 -                   904.5
E.  Credit .ad Spe-iel Funds
Credit        2                                                        270.9-        53.1          _              -            738.0         -         -         -           -      1,062.0         -       -
Spee'al f_uds.-                                                           -            -           _            75.,             _           _         _         -         150.0      225.0         -       _            33      75.0
Slb-total                                                            270.9         53.1                        75.0          738.0        -          _         _         150.0    1,287.0                                      75.0
II.  Operatino Coats
A.  Salariex, Fees and allowances                                           375.0        17.5         94.6           47.2            45.8        -       102.6     90.4         86.6       859.7               _         O
0.  Slrooyu,Eoud  -efietrotloa,monitorieg aed ovaluttio                    101.0          5.8          -                             12.5                            -         100.0       219.3                              0 _
C. Fa.- impt-remene a-tiitise                                           1,214.8           -           -              -              -           -         -         -           -       1,214.8         -      _             0
D.  Ir-survir  tersieino                                                                              i 18.2          _              _           _         5.3       _           -          23.5         _                            -
E. Trainig matetials                                                         -            _            1.9             -             _                    27.0      6.7          _          35.6        10      3.6          20        7.1
F.  Suppliea 6 misc. earutialo                                               30.0        43.5        16.1             8.5            -          8.0      125.6       -           _         231.6        10    23.2           10       23.2
C.  Vehicle 0 &M                                                             83.2         4.0          8.8           10.d             8.7        -        23.7     24.6         16.0       179.7         10    18.0          25       44.9
0.  Maochine, Install. 6 bldg. 0 & M                                         18.3         1.4         6.6              -              -          -         -         -           -          26.3        10      2.6          25        6.6
1.  Rise. espouses.                                                          39.3         8.2          ./            17.5            13.0      28.7        4.8       -           7.8       152.1         5      7.6           0       -
Sub-tatel                                                          1,061.6         80.4       546.9            84.0           82.0       66.8      289.0    121.6        210.3    2,942.6                53.0                   81.8
Tutol Baselie Coste-                                                2,754.8        183.1        267.9          277.3           982.2   1,085.9      392.5   504.8         629.2    7,077.8               231.3          21   1,484.8
/Diserepa=y in tot.1 due to roundinB.
- P-oject preparation, hamlet dovolopuent and speeial studies fu=ds.






Table 1:  PRICES OF STAPLE FOOD CROPS AT HARVEST TIME (1977-1978)
Description  Unit                        Rupiah/ynit
_Commodity                                       Market price      Market price          Farmgate price
English          Indonesian                               Yogyakarta        Kabupaten level       Range    Average
Paddy            Padi gabah           Drystalk        kg         -                  -           60 to  85      70
Rice             Beras                Hulled          kg        150                140              -          -
Maize            Jajung               Dry grain       kg          55                45          35 to  50      40
Groundnuts       Kacang tanah            Unshelled   kg          -                  -           75 to 125    100
Shelled      kg        325                300         120 to 275    175
Soybean          Kedele (or Kedelai) Dry grain        kg        200                175         125 to 375    150
Cassava          Ubi kayu             Fresh tuber   kg            30                25          15 to  20      17.5
(or ketela pohon)
Sweet potatoes  Ubi jalar             Fresh tuber   kg           30                 25          15 to 25       20
(or ketela rambat)
Sorghum          Cantel                              kg          -                  -           35 to  55      40
Beans            Benguk               Dry             kg                            -           35 to  50      40
1/11/79
14



ANNEX 2
54                                                          Table 2(a)
Table 2(a): SILVIPASTURE MODEL WITHOUT PROJECT -
MIXED FARMING CROPPING PATTERNS, YIELDS AND INPUT DATA PER HA -
A. 1978 Coefficients
Output (kg)
Crop/crop association       Cropping                          Dryland       Labor       Planting material(kg)
pattern (%)    Cassava  G'nuts   rice          (mandays)    G'nuts  Dryland rice
Cassava                         25           700                             120
Cassava/dryland rice            30           540                160          170                     16
Cassava/groundnuts              20           625       265                   170          30
Cassava/dryland rice/
and groundnuts                25           625       135       80          180          20         20
Total/average per ha.          100           600        60       60          151.5         7.5        7.8
B.  Projected Cropping Pattern Without Project (in %)
Area severed by crop/crop asaociation
Cassava/    Cassava/  Cassava/dryland
Years  Cassava  dryland rice   g'nuts        rice/g'nuts
1      25           30           20            25
2      30           30           20             20
3      35           30           15             20
4      40           30           15             15
5      45           25           15            15
10      55           25           10             10
15      70           15            5             10
20      80           10            5              5
30     100            0             0            14
C. Projected Yields Without Project (kg/ha)
-    --------- Cassava -------------   --Dryland rice---  ------ G'nuts ------
INTERCROPPED WITH
Dryland             Dryland               Cassava/               Dryland
Years  Cassava   rice    G'nuts  rice/g'nuts  Cassava   g'nuts   Cassava  rice/g'nuts
1      700       540       625        625         160        80       265         135
2      690       500       600        600         150        75       240         125
3      680       500       600        600         150        75       240         125
4      665       500       600        600         150        75        240        125
5      650       470       570        570         140        70       210         120
10      520       440       535        535         130        65        175        115
15      390       390       450        450         110        55        155         100
20      300       380       400        400         100        50        150         100
30      300       300       340        340          80        50        100          80
1/ Illustrative model, representing critical areas of shallow soils on steep slopes at lower elevations
suitable for silvipasture; see Working Paper C-12
2/20/79



Table 2(b): SILVIPASTURE MODEL WITHOUT PROJECT -
Family Budget for Mixed Farming on 0.7 ha (in rupiah) -
Revenues from agriculture                    Net income  Off-farm income
Expenses    from agri-                      Total
for       cultural                       family
Years  Non-cash  Cash   Total   agriculture  Activities  Non-cash   Cash   income
Un
1     14,400   2,600  17,000       2,600        14,400     2,400    23,000  39,800
2     13,100   2,300  15,400       2,400        13,000     2,400    23,100  38,500
3     12,300   2,200  14,500       2,100        12,400     2,400    23,100  37,900
4     11,800   2,100  13,900       1,900        12,000     2,400    23,100  37,500
5     10,900   1,900  12,800       1,800        11,000     2,400    23,200  36,600
10      8,600   1,500  10,100       1,300         8,800     2,400    23,300  34,500
15      6,200   1,100   7,300         700         6,400     2,400    23,400  32,200
20      4,600      800   5,400        500         4,900     2,400    23,500  30,800
30      3,100      600   3,700          0         3,700     2,400    23,700  29,800
t Illustrative budget representing critical areas of shallow soils on steep slopes
at lower elevations suitable for silvipasture; based on technical data from
Table 2(a).
& i
XMX



Table 2(c): SILVIPASTURE MODEL WITH PROJECT -
Family Budget for 0.7 ha Farm (in rupiah) -/
Net income from agriculture                   Total family income with project
2/                                                          Before                 After
Years -                                                        financing  Financing  financing
Traditional              Cattle            Off-farm      and        and         and
crops     Forestry  fattening  Total   income    subsidy    subsidy    subsidy
1         2,000      -19,600   - 65,900  -83,500  24,800    -58,700    115,400        56,700
2         1,900      - 2,800      2,000    1,100  24,800       25,900       6,200     32,1ln
3         1,700            0     28,700   30,400  24,800       55,200    -30,700      24,500
4         1,700            0      9,300   11,000  24,900       35,900    -10,400      25,500
5         1,600            0      9,300   10,900  24,900       35,800    - 9,200      26,600
6         1,500       53,500     28,700   83,500  24,900    108,400    - 7,300    101,100
7         1,400       53,300     15,800   70,500  24,900       95,400           0     95,400
8         1,300       53,300     15,800   70,400  24,900       95,300           0     95,300
Lii
2-8        1,600       22,400     15,700   39,700  24,900       64,600    - 7,400      57,200
9-15       1,100       22,800     15,800   39,700  24,900       64,600           0     64,600
16-22         700       22,800      15,800   39,300  25,000      64,300           0     64,300
23-29         500       22,800     15,800   39,100  25,000       64,100           0     64,100
/ Illustrative budget based on forestry and cattle fattening enterprise cash flow and
budgets - see Working Paper C-12;
2/
-  After year 2, averaged out over the seven-year growth cycle for trees.               
2/20/79
*4    C ;



Table 3(a): TERRACING MODEL WITHOUT PROJECT - MIXED FARMING CROPPING PATTERN, YIELDS AND INPUT DATA PER HA -/
A. 1978 Coefficients
Cropping   _                  Output (Kg)                 -               -Planting Material
Pattern                                                        Labor
Crop/Crop Association           %       Cassava   Sweet    Maize   Dryland   G'nuts   (Man Days)   Maize   Dryland   G'nuts
Potato              Rice                                       Rice
Cassava/Maize                      70        2,000                280                             230          15
Sweet Potato/Maize                 10                   1,500     280                             165          15
Cassava/dryland rice/g'nuts        20        2,000                          300       300         240                    30       60
Maize                              20                              380                            185          15       __
TOTAL/AVERAGE PER HA              120        1,800        150     300        60        60         262.5        15        6        12
B.  Projected Yields Without Project (Kg/ha)
CROP
Sweet                                                                                                                                1
Potatoes                 Cassava                               Maize                       Groundnuts            Rice
Years       P
ASSOCIATED CROP(S)
Maize          Maize         Groundnuts        Cassava        Maize          Sweet          Cassava/         Cassava/
Potatoes          Rice          Groundnuts
1           1,500.0        2,000.0          2,000.0           280.0         380.0         280.0            300.0            300.0
10           1,400.0        1,900.0          1,900.0           260.0         360.0         260.0            280.0            280.0
15           1,300.0         1,800.0         1,800.0           240.0         340.0         240.0            260.0            260.0
20           1,100.0         1,600.0         1,600.0           210.0         310.0         210.0             210.0           210.0
30             800.0        1,200.0          1,200.0           150.0         250.0         150.0            150.0            150.0
1/  Illustrative model representing upper elevations suitable for terracing with constant cropping pattern;  see Working Paper G-12.
e
I-.t,



Table 3(b): TERRACING MODEL WITH PROJECT - MIXED FARMING CROPPING PATTERN, YIELDS
AND INPUT DATA AT FULL DEVELOPMENT: PER HA l/
Cassava/          Sweet            Cassava/                                          Total/
Maize            Potato/         Dryland Rice/          Maize         Sorghum        Average
Maize            Groundnut                                          per Ha
Crop Distribution               50                30                  30                20             20             150
Output (Kg):
Cassava                      3,500                                 3,500                                            2,800
Sweet Potato                                   2,500                                                                  750
Maize                          800             1,000                                 1,000                            900
Dryland Rice                                                         800                                              240
Sorghum                                                                                               800             160
Groundnuts                                                           500                                              150
Labor (man/day):
Family                         250               200                 300               200            160             347
Hired Male                      60                40                  80                50             50               86
Hired Female                    15                 5                  40                10             10               25
Total                          325               245                 420               260            220             458                X,
Planting Material (Kg):
Maize                                                                                                                  25
Dryland Rice                                                                                                             9
Sorghum                                                                                                                 1
Groundnuts                                                                                                             30
Urea (Kg)                      200               150                 200               150            150             265
TSP  (Kg)                      200               200                 200               200            200             300
Insecticide (lt)                 1                 1                   2                 1              1               1.8
1/ Illustrative model based on estimates of production increases following terracing and improved cropping practices;
see Working Paper C-1.
wr z
(9  C



Table 3(c): TERRACING MODEL WITHOUT PROJECT - FAMILY BUDGET FOR MIXED FARMING ON 0.7 HA (IN RUPIAH) -
Revenues from Agriculture                           Net Income         Off-farm Income            Total
Expenses      from Agri-    _                               Family
for          cultural                                     Income
Years        Non-cash        Cash        Total    Agriculture       Activities     Non-cash           Cash
1           23,600          7,900       31,500        7,300          24,200         2,200           21,600      48,000
10           22,300          7,500       29,800        7,300          22,500         2,200           21,600       46,300
15           21,000          7,000       28,000        7,300          20,700         2,200           21,600       44,500
20           18,200          6,100       24,300        7,300          17,000         2,200           21,600       40,800
25           15,800          5,300       21,100        7,300          13,800         2,200           21,600       37,600
30           13,500          4,500       18,000        7,300          10,700         2,200           21,600       34,500
1/  Illustrative budget representing upper elevations suitable for terracing;  based on technical data from Table 3(a).
Table 3(d):  TERRACING MODEL WITH PROJECT - FAMILY BUDGET FOR 0.7 HA FARM (IN RUPIAH)  /
Net Income from Agriculture              Off-Farm           Total Family Income with Project
Years                           Income
Years                                            Net                         Before                          After
Revenues       Expenses          Income                         Subsidy        Subsidy         Subsidy
1           31,500            7,300           24,200        23,800           48,000                         48,000
2           40,000           15,500          24,500         22,800           47,300          12,200         59,500
3           57,100           28,900          28,200         21,200           49,400         22,300          71,700
4           74,200           43,300          30,900         20,000           50,900          22,300         73,200
5           74,200           43,300           30,900        21,000           51,900                         51,900
6 - 30      74,200           43,300           30,900        21,000           51,900                         51,900
2/ Illustrative budget based on estimated production and inputs summarized in Table 3(b)
HL
e 



Table 4:  ILLUSTRATIVE MODEL OF PRODUCTION AND INCOME FROM IMPROVED HOMEGARDEN OF 0. 3HA-
Value of Production (Rp 000)                                             At Full
Number of        Yield            Farmgate                                                         Year                                                         Maturity
Crop                  Plants         Range 2/          Price 3/                                                                                                          10       (Year 16-30)
(Rp~)              1          2         3         4          5         6         7          8         9         1
Upper Storey
Coconut                  20            5-60                 50               --        --        --         --        --        --         --        5.0      10.0       20.0           60.0
Jak Fruit                 2            2-10               200                --        --        --         --        --        0.8        1.2       1.6        2.0       2.4            4.0
Mango                     2           30-250                10               --        --        --         0.6       0.8        1.0       1.2       1.4        1.6       2.0            5.0
Avocado                   2          20-100                40                --        --        --         --        1.6       3.2        6.0       8.0       8.0        8.0            8.0
Rambutan                  2         150-500                  2.5             --        --        --         --        0.8       0.9        1.3       1.5        1.8       2.0            2.5
Bamboo                    4            5-10 poles       200/pole             --        4.0       6.0        8.0       8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0       8.0        8.0            8.0
Sub-totals                                --         4.0       6.0       8.6       11.2      13.9      17.7       25.5      31.4      42.4           87.5
Middle Storey
Clove                    10          0.2-2.8 Kg         3,000 Kg dry         --        --        --         --        --        --         6.0       9.0      12.0       24.0           84.0
Banana                    5            1 stalk            600/stalk          --        1.5       3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0        3.0            3.0
Papaya                    5             15-25                 50             --        3.7       6.0        6.0       6.0       6.0        6.0       6.0        6.0       6.0            6.0
Sub-totals                                --         5.2       9.0       9.0        9.0       9.0      15.0       18.0      21.0      33.0           93.0                     o
Ground Level
Pineapple                30            15-30                  90             --        1.4
Taro                     --            20-60 Kg               20             0.4       1.2
Carrot                   --            10-20  "               80             0.8       1.6
Tomato                   --            10-20  "               80             0.8       1.6   >   assumed the same for subsequent years
Chili Pepper             --             5-15  "              200             1.0       3.0
Cabbage                  --            10-20 "                30             0.3       0.6
Other                    --            20-40  "              150             3.0       6.0J
Sub-totals                                6.3       15.4      15.4      15.4       15.4      15.4      15.4       15.4      15.4       15.4           15.4
Estimated Gross Value of Production                                        6.3      24.6      30.4       33.0      35.6       38.3      48.1      58.9       67.8      90.8          195.9
Estimated Production Costs, excluding Labor 4/                             2.5       6.0       8.0      10.0       10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0      10.0       14.0           20.0
3.8      18.6      22.4      23.0       25.6      28.3      38.1       48.9      57.8       76.8          175.9
Estimated Net Income
1/  Based on abstracted information from UNDP/FAO Upper Solo Project, Sri Lanka Tree Crop Diversification (Kandy Garden) Project, and local data recorded in Yogyakarta.
2/  Number of nuts or fruits/tree unless otherwise indicated.                                                                                                                                               F!
3/ Based on 1978 prices in Yogyakarta DIY.
4/ Estimated costs of tools, vegetable seeds, fertilizers and pesticides; does not include cost of tree seedlings.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
SELECTED DOCUEENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Selected Reports on the Area
A.1  Kali Progo Basin Study, Hunting Technical Services Ltd., and Sit
MacDonald and Partners, October 1971.
A.2  Upper Solo Watershed Management and Upland Development, AG. DP/IN'/>U!.
Termination Report. UNDP/FAO, Rome, 1976.
A.3  ENEX Report on Yogyakarta Rural Roads, ENEX, 1978.
B. Selected Reports on the Project
B.1 Yogyakarta Rural Development Project Preparation Report, BAPPEDA,
Yogyakarta, May 1978.
B.2  Regional Development of Yogyakarta, UNCRD, 1976.
C. Working Papers for Project Implementation
C-1    -  Overview of Agricultural Sector in DIY
C-2    -  Technical Development Cell
C-3    -  Agricultural Technical Development Center and Sub-Centers
C-4(a) -  Technical Development - Homegardens
C-4(b) -  Technical Development - Food Crops
C-5    -  Soil Conservation
C-6    -  Reforestation
C-7    -  Silvipasture
C-8    -  Inland Fisheries
C-9    -  Livestock
C-10   -  Agricultural Technical Training
C-lb   -  Community Participation
C-12   -  Farm and Crop Budgets
C-13   -  Small-Scale Enterprises
C-14   -  Incremental Credit
C-16   -  Rural Health Development
C-17   -  Rural Water Supplies
C-18   -  Rural Roads
C-19   -  Organization and Management






IBRD 13978R
110<00'                                                IIU15'                                                 11O30'                                INDONESIA   1 1 45'                          MAY 1979
~~~~~~1  .,,ld          I    f      ,l~-    -
of he pheads f he reoortdthvzto oh. ,,r aS!t,enCllSd.rf,e lalroo td s0                                                   YOGYAKARTA   RURAL  DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
t oo,ddao,tSsOo, otl,5 rh0 mWdo nod I0Pt' on the p,"of rhe Wfod B."e,t I
-.p.-                     "feotoU,oheo,ndhel t   ofo,,, toroto or 0                              /        |                                    PHYSICAL  ACTIVITIES
g   ,  /    *.                                            *     Agricultural Techmn al Development Center
C  ENTRAL                                \                                               Kahngjun9                                          A     Agricultura Techn cal Development Subcenters
\      Piot Land Rec amation
JAVA                                    ' N                  Solo         uri                                                                  SoI Conservation Programs
hANJJAR  DYf                 0.>          Turi
Home Garden Improvement
(samigaluh0N    A                                                                                                       4     Tree Crop FairmT rrg Sysrerrr Developmerit
z <    nf~~~ lnibwn3|  !               t/            N                                                          (| i)   Mob ITruin nq Uriits
/t\Banjararu_ 4rea  vf*                                                                                               F sh Hatcrner es
. (Rehiabit[  2    \ / /e)                                                                                          1 \     Artilicial InserFT nAtion Subposts
7'45'~~ 9                                                        ode                                                                                 | $|    Lvesrock Market
KARTA                             /Construction Area'
//UL            NPROG  Ogee/V0> > J
r  Sentolo  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GDNG Pt Ngrwen
| -CC  _ It   t_     9abai  )-                                       EN                             I            RAL~~~CNTRA
~~~( \ A g&U L gtj/ P sy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enqiilhargo                                                                             J AVA
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Prim- F'!ftzary Roads       \n/g;j> anh /                                                                                     u ) \<Wonosari
trurof Roaqds To  BeX,/ X  t  ^a
Q   -    -      iri5kr;iS                                                            <                    a%*fn7                         tr                        i                                   8100,
L  L     .       *     -      -.          u         _    -- -   .   - -, --:  , -m,--: -. --   :,;    --    .  -, - - -   -  K-
Provincial 8 unt :iS00 : 4 l   --    ''':- :; <:..  ..........................  -: .-.-.- :,
m:ibaoo    ,E:   0 'ul:.................9-:.   :--t.    --. - 
+<    >              j~~~~~~ A V1 A P:S t A4      u         7    0-              %                              - --- --             ;-->Tps :.   : : 
t ,V D I A ,N    O CEAN,|*                                                           MfLES :                                ! -r      s   '!  i6  5. r3Ej!-                       .   



