Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2603-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
YOGYAKARTA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 29, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Rupiah (Rp)
US$1             =   Rp 625
Rp 100               US$0.16
Rp 1 million     =   US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPEDA    -   Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah - Provincial Development
Planning Agency
BAPPENAS   -   Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan National - National Development
Planning Agency
BRI        -   Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
DIY        -   Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta - Special Province of Yogyakarta
GOI        -   Government of Indonesia
INPRES     -   Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instructioli" - a rural
works program
USAID      -   United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Creclit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Amount:           $12 million
Terms:            Standard
Project           The project's aims are to strengthen the capacity of the
Description:   Yogyakarta provincial government to implement effective
area development programs in two extremely poor districts and
to assess new technologies designed to achieve these objec-
tives through several experimental programs. Specifically
the project would: (a) test and adapt appropriate agricul-
tural technologies and soil conservation measures for upland
farming; (b) introduce low-cost promising income-generating
activities, e.g. fisheries, livestock, and small-scale
enterprises; (c) improve selected rural roads, low-cost
preventive and primary health care, and safe drinking water
supply; and (d) strengthen provincial planning and program
implementation, through technical assistance, training and
local participation. Long-term project benefits are expected
to be reflected in the expansion of appropriate rural
development programs throughout the country.
The main project risks are organizational since coordination
at the provincial level has been usually weak. Also, the
realization of benefits will depend on the pace of farmer
acceptance of the new technologies and the efficiency of the
local authorities to implement the project. These risks
will be minimized by reinforcing existing coordination
mechanisms, and remain acceptable in view of the experimental
nature of the project and the promise to resolve one of the
most difficult development issues of Java's poorest areas.
Estimated                                              Local  Foreign  Total
Cost:                                                ---- $ million -----
Agricultural development         4.2       0.9     5.1
Non-farm development              1.4      0.2     1.6
Social services support          1.2       0.2     1.4
Rural roads                       1.2      0.6     1.8
Institutional development        0.9       0.5     1.4
Physical contingencies           0.4       0.0     0.4
Price contingencies              7.0       0.3     7.3
Total Project Cost            16.3       2.7    19.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
olf their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing         The proposed IDA credit would finance 63% of total project
Plan:           costs of $19 million.  The remaining $7 million would be
Pr( r '.clf-'e by the Borrower.
Estimated                        ------ -------  $ million ------------------
Disbursements: IDA FY          1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual          0.5    2.8    2.3    2.9    1.9    1.3    0.3
Cumulative      0.5    3.2    5.6    8.5   10.4   11.7   12.0
Rate of Return:  Although the productive , component activities are experimen-
tal in nature, an indicative economic analysis shows rates
of return at 14% for terracing and 13% for silvipasture (the
two aiajor soil conservation measures), and 11% for rural
roads.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 2336-ITD, dated May 18, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EYECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
P'ROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
A  YOGYAYARTA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
develomeni: credit to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $12
million onI standard IDA terms to help finance a Yogyakarta Rural Development
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Growth
Patterns, Social Progress and Development Prospects," of February 20, 1979
(No. 2093-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979.
This report's main findings are that:
(a)  aided by a massive improvement in the country's resource position
during the early 1970s and by innovative policies, considerable
progress has been made towards raising the level of material
well-being for the bulk of the Indonesian population, including
the lowest income groups;
(b)  due to a number of new, mostly exogenous circumstances,
including an expiected slowdown in the growth of oil production,
Indonesia is now facing a rapidly tightening overall resource
position which will make it more difficult to maintain high levels
of income and employment growth, while at the same time preserving
monetary stability and external balance;
(c) the recent (November 15, 1978) devaluation of the Rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the US dollar, while strongly supportive of
the structural changes required to reduce economic dependence on
oil and to improve long-term development prospects, should not be
regarded as a substitute for efforts needed to remove physical and
administrative bottlenecks and to develop effective support services;
(d) although the Government (because of the structure of its revenues
and expenditures) is a prime beneficiary of devaluation-induced
income shifts from import users to net exporters, significant
additional public sector resource mobilization efforts will be
needed to prevent a sharp decline in the share of Government
savings in GNP beyond 1979/80;
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Transmigra-
tion II Project (No. E'-2549-IND), circulated under cover of R79-112, dated
May 16, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on May 29, 1979.



- 2 -
(e) while the next five to ten years may be difficult because of the
structural changes needed to adjust to a post-oil boom era,
Indonesia's long-term development prospects have 'been significantly
enhanced by the Government's successful population policies which
have already contributed to a substantial (approximately 20%)
reduction of fertility in Java and Bali during the past decade.
These crucially important demographic developments will, in due
course, particularly after the mid-1980s, be reflected in reduced
and declining rates of growth of the labor force. Declining labor
force growth rates and the prospects of declining income elastici-
ties of demand for food justify the hope and expectation that with
sound policies, Indonesia can and will eventually - possibly within
the next two decades - overcome the severe poverty and food security
problems that still plague the country today. The solution of
these fundamental problems through the pursuit of a pervasive
employment-oriented development strategy would set the economy
firmly on a long-term growth path towards much higher levels of
social and economic development involving all Indonesians. One of
the key components of such a strategy would be to aim at a high
rate of labor-intensive manufacturing development.
Social Developments Since 1970
3.        Analysis of data from the National Household Surveys for 1970 and
1976 suggests that while overall income disparities have almost certainly
widened, the rapid overall growth of the economy /1 has contributed to a
considerable improvement in consumption of all income groups, including the
very poor.  The data further suggest that increases in per capita consumption
were higher in Java than in the other islands and higher in urban areas than
in rural areas. Notwithstanding this, many Indonesians remain extremely
poor: in 1976 when average per capita income was about $280,/2 over
50 million Indonesians (38% of the population) spent less than $90 (1976
prices and exchange rate).
4.        Analysis of data from National Labor Force Surveys shows a remark-
ably high rate of employment growth (over 4% p.a.) between September 1971
and October 1976. But during this period, the labor force also grew at a
very high rate and the data suggest that there was a slight increase in the
rate of open unemployment. Since the labor force grew much faster than
population in the relevant age groups, a sharp increase in labor force
participation rates, from 50% in September 1971 to 55% in October 1976, was
observed. Thus, a substantial part of the increased per capita consumption
levels is believed to have been related to increased labor force participa-
tion and declining dependency ratios.
/1 GDP grew at 8.0% p.a. As a result of favorable terms of trade develop-
ments during most of the period, GDY grew even faster - about 9.5% p.a.
/2  World Bank Atlas.  (Preliminary estimate for 1977: $300).



- 3 -
5.        The share of agricultural employment between 1971 and 1976 declined
from 66% to 62%, implying rapid growth of nonagricultural employment - over 7%
p.a. or 54% of the total increase in employment. Within the nonagricultural
sectors, the increase in employment occurred largely in proliferating small-
scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors where labor produc-
tivity is thought to be extremely low. This is indicated, inter alia, by the
stagnation oi: real minimum wage levels which are among the lowest in the
world.  Employment growth in medium- and large-scale enterprises, which absorbed
the bulk of industrial investment, was very modest. The broad picture of
rapid employment growth since 1970, though encouraging in many respects, thus
reveals that a relatively large part of the incremental employment has been
of poor quality in residual types of activities.
6.        l4uch progress has been made in recent years with the provision of
education services. Enrollmenat rates increased at all levels of education.
For example, primary school enrollment (excluding over-age students) is ex-
pected to reach 85% in 1979 for the 7-12 age group, compared to 60% in 1974;
dropout rates - while still high - declined, and universal primary education
appears to be in sight. A promising nonformal education-program has been
introduced to increase the basic employable skills of those who never attended
school (presently estimated at 23 million people) and others who left school
without completing primary education (a further 22 million). Indonesia's
adult literacy rate increased to 62% in 1974 which is much higher than in
India (36%), Pakistan (21%), or Bangladesh (23%), but lower than in Thailand
(82%) or the Philippines (87%). Within Indonesia, large differences in levels
of educational attainment between urban and rural areas still exist, but
differences between Java and other parts of the country are relatively small.
7.        Irk the field of health care services, there has been a tremendous
expansion of physical infrastructure including medical training facilities.
Almost 3,000 rural health centers, designed to become the principal vehicles
for the delivery of basic health services, were constructed between 1969 and
1977.  But much of the new physical infrastructure has so far remained under-
utilized due to personnel shortage and a range of other factors, including
popular preference for traditional health care services in several areas.
8.        Inadequate sewerage and sanitation facilities are still major
health hazards, especially in crowded urban areas.  Even if the various
targets for rural and urban water supply for the Second Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan (Repelita II), which ended in March 1979, were fully met, over
100 million Indonesians will still remain without easy access to safe water
in 1979. Similarly, housing conditions are generally very unsatisfactory,
especially in crowded urban areas.   Although simple and inexpensive improve-
ments in water supply, drainage, footpaths and community facilities, executed
through Kampung Improvement Projects, including those supported by the Bank
Group, have contributed to better living conditions in several overcrowded
urban areas, specific socio-economic support programs to improve the living
conditions of the urban poor are needed.



-4-
The Devaluation of November 15, 1978
9.        The recent devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US
dollar was designed to encourage labor-intensive import substitution and
nonoil export growth by reversing some of the adverse relative price shifts in
the economy that had occurred earlier this decade. The opportune timing of
this drastic and unique policy action is believed to be a strong factor
enhancing the probability of its success. The strongest immediate effect of
the devaluation, however, will be a dramatic increase in budgetary revenues in
local currency terms. Government expenditures will, of course, also increase
as a result of the devaluation but the net budgetary position in terms of
rupiahs should improve strongly. While the recent devaluation will generally
tend to facilitate export promotion efforts, great emphasis needs to be placed
on the importance of developing effective support services and of reducing
administrative obstacles and other unnecessary cost increasing factors.
10.       A number of supportive measures to prevent an upturn in domestic
inflation eroding the potential benefits of this devaluation have already been
taken. Such measures include the lowering of import tariffs by 50% on a wide
range of intermediate inputs, stringent temporary price controls, and a
temporary increase in budgetary subsidies to initially isolate key consumption
items, such as rice, from the effects of the devaluation. Aside from the
budget's influence on the prices via subsidies, the degree of monetary control
exercised will also be an important factor in minimizing devaluation-induced
inflation. There is likely to be conflict, however, between the need to
contain devaluation-induced monetary expansion and the need for additional
credit to promote new private investment in line with the structural objectives
of the devaluation. Nonetheless, a sizeable budget surplus in fiscal 1979/80
almost certainly will be needed to assist in neutralizing the effect of a sudden
sharp increase in the rate of monetary expansion following the devaluation.
11.       Prior to the November exchange rate adjustment, balance of payments
projections based on current trends and expectations suggested the probability
that, without special export promotion efforts, a shortage of foreign exchange
would become a binding constraint on development efforts within the next few
years. Although it is too early to make more than a very preliminary and
speculative assessment of the effect of the devaluation on imports and exports,
there is now less ground for the fear that the balance of payments will become
a development constraint. No dramatic changes, however, are foreseen in the
immediate future; the short-term export response, in particular, is likely to
be constrained by supply rigidities. Ultimately, changes in the size and
structure of imports and exports will be strongly influenced by the effect that
the devaluation will have on the overall growth performance of the economy.
Food Supply and Demand Prospects
12.       In spite of impressive increases in rice production, Indonesia's
food self-sufficiency has declined continually over the past decade. In par-
ticular, there has been a growing import-dependence on rice, sugar, wheat,
and recently coconut oil, which is predicted to continue (paras. 28-29). To



meet this problem, an overall food production and consumption strategy is
vital. The Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III) has placed new
emphasis on the need to increase production of secondary crops such as maize,
cassava, soybeans, and groundnuts, particularly in order to decrease Indonesia's
import-dependency on rice. Yields of secondary crops in other countries
indicates that they hold significant potential for increasing Indonesia's food
self-sufficiency and improving the food security of low-income families in
Indonesia's unirrigated areas (para. 30).
Overall Growth and Employment Prospects
13.       Medium-term prospects, as determined by developments already in
motion and by exogenous factors such as the expected temporary stagnation
in oil production, suggest that it will be difficult to achieve an overall GNP
growth rate of more than 6-6.5% during the next 3-5 years. This is consider-
ably less than the average growth performance of the economy during the
past decade. But if the broad pattern of relationships between output growth,
employment growth, and personal consumption growth observed for the period
1970-76 does not drastically change, a GNP growth rate of 6-6.5% could still
be consistent with an overall employment growth target rate of around 3% p.a.
The Government has already announced a GNP growth target of 6.5% p.a. for the
Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), which started in April 1979.
14.       As the economy is entering a difficult period of adjustment to post-
oil boom conditions involving structural changes in the pattern of production
and the sources of savings, more reliance will have to be placed on agricul-
ture and industry and on the mobilization of Indonesia's most abundant and
inexhaustible resource: people. The devaluation may be expected to facilitate
the structural changes that are needed.  With improved incentives for an employ-
ment-oriented strategy and adequate Government investment and institutional
support services for agriculture and small industries, it should in due course
be possible to raise the overall growth rate of the economy to at least 7% or 8%,
which would be a major help in accelerating the further elimination of poverty.
External AiLd and Creditworthiness
15.       The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of
1976, togelher with a hardening of average terms during those years, has
raised the level of debt service payments which reached about $1.5 billion in
1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1S977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of $575 million remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling
$1 billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina cr^isis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to $2.3 billion in 1978. Mlost of the decline
was achieved through a reduction in commercial borrowing. This means that
average loan terms have recently begun to soften again, which will be reflected
in future debt service payments.
/I Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
16.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGcI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.93 billion in 1979/80, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in April 1979 the indications of probable commitments in 1979/80
made by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to about this level;
the meeting therefore concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be
approximately met.
17.       The Bank's overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts
indicates that the country will be able to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods and to meet its debt service obli-
gations.  The debt service ratio is expected to remain below 20%.  Although
the November 1978 devaluation will provide a one time revenue windfall, the
Government will need to raise substantial additional non-oil revenues over
the coming years if the relatively high rate of domestic investment already
reached is to be maintained. The Government has been quite cautious in
increasing current expenditures and there does not appear to be much scope
for reducing them further; expenditures should, in fact, rise in step with
the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable growth in Government
salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant part of which is
development related. In view of the pressure on public sector resources and
since Indonesia's total external financing requirements are in excess of the
foreign exchange components of the many projects planned for financing from
external sources, a limited measure of local cost financing is considered
justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
18.      As of April 30, 1979, Indonesia had received 40 IDA credits totalling
$701.4 million, and 37 Bank loans amounting to $1,903.0 million./2 IFC invest-
ments have totalled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977 was about 8%,
and the share of debt service about 1.8%. Bv the end of 1978, these ratios
are estimated to have increased to around 12% and 5%, respectively. Annex II
contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of April
30, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
/I  Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Transmigration II
Project (No. P-2549-IND), circulated under cover of R79-112, dated May 16,
1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on May 29, 1979.
/2 Since April 30, 1979, one Credit for a Fifth Technical Assistance Project
and five loans for Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control, Second Agricultural
Training, Fifth Highway, Fourth BAPINDO, Eighth Power and Second Transmigra-
tion projects have been approved by the Board.



- 7 -
19.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of t:he Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recent:Ly, an effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the iindustrial sector, while the major thrust has
been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the qual-
ity of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education.  In the social sector,
the Bank Group has financed projects for urban development (through neighbor-
hood improvement programs), urban water supply, family planning, and nutri-
tion. A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate
and expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power
and transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a
telecommunications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group
has assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its develop-
ment programs and projects through five technical assistance credits and a
loan for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
20.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and increase agriculture production, particularly of food crops. One
of the majclr objectives of Repelita III is to increase employment through
programs directed towards improving the incomes of the poor and their living
standards. While several of these programs are likely to be suitable for
Bank Group financing, it will be some time before they are ready for imple-
mentation. However, as part of this new focus, a small enterprise development
project, designed to increase non-agricultural employment in rural areas and
small towns, has already been approved by the Executive Directors. The
proposed rural development project is another step in implementing these
programs. With respect to agriculture development, projects are being
prepared to further improve and expand research and extension services,
rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems, help replant smallholder rubber
and coconul plantations, assist in watershed management and village development,
and develop presently underutilized land in areas outside Java for transmigrants
and other smallholders. In addition to the family planning program, which
continues to have high priority, other areas of particular importance for
Bank Group assistance will be the improvement of urban services through
construction of urban water supply systems and further expansion of neighbor-
hood improvement programs, support for industrial financing and the improvement
and expansion of higher education particularly of engineers, accountants and
agriculture specialists, as well as primary and nonformal education. Finally,
Bank Group financing continues to be important for the Government's program



- 8 -
of infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in transport and
power, which will continue to require very large investments for many years
before these facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's development.
Compared to past lending activities, many of these projects and programs
reflect the shift of emphasis in Government's development objectives from
rehabilitation and expansion to a better balanced and more equitable and
employment-oriented economic growth strategy.
21.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968 and between 1968 and
1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has
saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded its development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in
1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above, and notwithstanding the
November 1978 devaluation, both the budgetary and balance of payments situa-
tions may be difficult in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always
qualified for assistance on concessional terms on grounds of its low per
capita income and the quality of its economic management, such terms are now
also necessary to enable it to maintain a high level of investment without
impairing its ability to service its external debt. Accordingly, starting in
FY78, a portion of Bank Group lending to Indonesia has again been provided on
IDA terms.
22.       Although overall project implementation performance in Indonesia is
now about the average for the Bank, the Bank and the Government have
become concerned in recent months about the level of disbursements which in
the last year or so has shown a declining trend. Many of the problems seem
to be attributable to cumbersome procedures for procurement and payment of
contracts, including issuance of letters of credit. In other cases, project
specific problems and unfamiliarity of some project executing agencies
with procedures also cause difficulties. A number of steps have been taken
by the Government and the Bank in an attempt to address these problems. In
the last year, two Bank missions were sent to Indonesia to analyze and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures; the
Government is now reviewing their reports.  The Government and the Bank are
holding regular joint review meetings in order to identify project specific as
well as more general problems and to work out corrective measures. The first
of these meetings was held in early March this year and the second in June on
a number of general issues affecting project implementation and on some
selected projects. During the IGGI meeting in April 1979 the Government
announced several ameliorative measures designed to streamline the more
complex budgetary and financial procedures which seem to affect implemen-
tation of almost all projects. Although, as a result of these initiatives an
improvement in implementation performance is now anticipated, constant follow
up in this area will be necessary in the coming months.



- 9 -
23.       The proposed credit is the first lending operation presented
to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects for nucleus estates and
smallholder development, irrigation and agricultural extension are expected
to be rea,ly for presentation in the next several months.
PART III -- THE AGRICULTURAL AIXD RURAL SECTOR
14ajor Issues
24.       The major interrelated objectives of the programs in the agricul-
tural and rural sector in Indonesia are to create productive employment
opportunities, raise the incomes of the rural poor, increase domestic food
supply to keep pace with rising demand, expand the production of agricultural
exports, particularly smal'Lholder tree crops, and ensure the productive,
sustainable use of Indonesia's natural resources. This will necessarily
involve complex and sometimes novel technical and organizational approaches,
with the attendant risks that must be recognized and accepted if programs are
to be developed to deal with Indonesia's problems on the requisite scale.
The risks of action must bes weighed against the risks of inaction in the face
of widespread poverty and underemployment, growing food import requirements,
and ecological damage caused by deforestation and soil destructive cultivation
practices.
25.       Role and Performance.  Agriculture's contribution to GDP and export
has declined during the past 15 years from 55% to 33% and from 55% to 23%,
respectively, but the rural sector remains of overwhelming importance to the
vast majority of the Indonesian people in terms of employment, incomes and
food production. Some 80% of the country's 135.5 million people L1 live in
rural areas, and agriculture employs about two thirds of the total labor
force. Except for oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholder
production; there are some 14.4 million smallholders producing subsistence
and cash crops on 14.2 million ha. There are also 1,800 estates covering
2.2 million ha producing mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil and tobacco.
The main products of the small farms are rice, corn, cassava, soybeans,
fruits and vegetables, accounting for about 64% of total agricultural output.
Other annual crops account for 10%; perennial crops, 4%; livestock, 7%;
forestry, 11%; and fisheries, 4%; of total agricultural output. Over the past
five years, the growth rate of agricultural production has been uneven,
averaging 4% p.a., while total GDP grew at 8% p.a.
Development Problems and Potential
26.       In Java, where 82 million people live on 7% of Indonesia's total
land area, all lowland and most of the better upland is totally utilized.
Intense population pressures have increasingly forced small farmers and
landless peasants to eke cut a meager existence by cropping marginal upland
/1  Estimate for mid-1978 based on the Inter-Censal Population Survey of
lMarch 1976.



- 10 -
areas and low potential, steep mountain slopes, dangerously exceeding safe
ecological limits. About one third of Java's rural population is landless
and a large proportion of the remainder cannot support themselves on incomes
derived from their farms. Whereas several Government programs are directed
toward increasing the productivity of lowland and irrigated agriculture,
upland agriculture has received much less attention.  In Java's upland areas,
which constitute a significant proportion of croplands, poverty has worsened
and will become more serious as widespread erosion further weakens the
resource base, emphasizing the urgent need to develop a comprehensive program
for erosion control and improved agricultural practices.
27.       Employment.  Perhaps the single most important challenge facing the
Indonesian Government is to guide and structure the development process in
such a way that the creation of new employment opportunities keeps pace with
the growth of the labor force. Modernization in rural Java has led to
labor-saving changes, so that farming is increasingly becoming a part-time
activity. Modern manufacturing and services have not been able to absorb
fully the incremental labor force. Successful locally administered public
rural works programs (INPRES) may be difficult to expand due to limited
budget and implementation capacity. The future employment strategy will
emphasize labor-intensive export industries and small-scale rural enterprises
producing for the domestic market. There may also be potential for more
productive agricultural employment through increased cropping intensity and a
shift to higher value crops and livestock, including fruits and vegetables
grown on house compounds.
28.       Food Crops.  Despite impressive achievements in rice production, the
past decade has seen a continuing decline in Indonesia's food self-sufficiency.
Between 1968 and 1977, the composite trend growth rates of domestic food calorie
production and availability were approximately 3.2% and 3.7%, respectively./1
These growth rates reflect a growing import-dependence on rice, sugar, wheat
and recently coconut oil, as well as a reduction or disappearance of maize,
cassava, meat and coconut product exports. After three years of declining
growth rate in rice production due to a combination of poor weather and
pest problems, 1978 has shown a large increase in output (over 10%), but
import requirements in 1978/79, though much lower than in 1977/78, were still
about 6% of total domestic consumption.
29.       Comparison of plausible food supply and demand scenarios suggests
the likelihood of increasing import requirements of basic foods and especially
of rice, wheat, sugar, coconut oil and possibly maize. There is an urgent
need for a comprehensive food production and consumption strategy. In the
case of rice, with the substantial completion of irrigation rehabilitation,
the recent shift in emphasis towards extension of irrigated areas and swamp
drainage projects will probably somewhat reduce rice production growth
rates, at least through 1985. However, the potential for increasing fertil-
izer and insecticide consumption and for improving the local performance of
/1 The rice trend production growth rate was about 3.5% and the composite
trend for the 5 main secondary staples (maize, cassava, peanuts, sweet
potatoes, and soybeans) was 1.6%.



- 11 -
the most recent IRRI varieties, suggests that an annual rate of growth of
rice product:ion of around 3.5% is nevertheless feasible through 1985. The
recent devaluation has provided significant additional room for further rice
producer price increases aimed at stimulating supply.
30.       While slower growth in rice productivity is anticipated, a com-
parison of yields of secondary crops in a number of countries suggests that
these crops offer considerable potential for raising Indonesia's domestic
food self-sufficiency. With proper marketing and other support services, the
rate of growth of secondary crop production could probably be raised from
1.7% to 3.5% p.a. A gradual shift in the overall food production and con-
sumption pattern from rice to the secondary crops would assist low-income
farmers in unirrigated areas and reduce the cost and risks associated with
excessive rice import-dependency.
31.       Tree Crops.  The Government has begun a major effort to develop
smallholder tree crops outside Java as part of its transmigration and
national rulbber and coconut replanting programs. The objective is to improve
production on existing blocks and develop large areas of new land for settle-
ment. One of the Government's main approaches has been to use public estate
companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by local landless families
and transmigrants. The estate companies provide a range of services for the
smallholders, including planting material, land clearing and planting,
inputs, processing and markelting facilities. This approach is appropriate
in view of Indonesia's scarces managerial and technical capabilities.
32.       Transmigration.  Transmigration offers substantial opportunities
for improving social equity and the economic use of Indonesia's two main
underemployed resources: Javanese labor and land on the Other Islands.
Transmigration has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations about its
potential contribution to regional development and to the solution of Java's
population problems. Further problems have arisen from organizational
difficulties, overambitious targets and weak, uncoordinated implementation.
These problems are now being addressed, and the Executive Directors recently
approved a loan and credit for a major transmigration project to be located
in Sumatera. The issues include the organizational aspects of transmigration,
the design of farming systems, and the package of services which will support
successful, long-term settlement.
33.       Role of the Government.  The Government capacity to plan and
implement agricultural and rural development projects has generally improved
over the past decade. However, future programs will necessarily be more
complex than those which the Government has followed up to now.  They will
require closely coordinated programs of research, extension, inputs, credit,
land development, transportation and marketing improvements, in addition to
improvements in social infrastructure. The Government has initiated pilot
multi-agency integrated area development programs and, complementary to
these, has begun a process to decentralize planning, decision-making and
project execution to the provincial and district levels. The more complex
organizational requirements of these projects make it imperative that the
Government provide for the strengthening of the Provincial Planning Boards



- 12 -
(BAPPEDAs) to improve their capability for planning, monitoring and coord-
inating such projects. Simultaneously, the executive capacity of the local
line agencies must be reinforced. Greater accountability at the provincial
and district levels and local participation in the various stages of develop-
ment programs should improve the preparation and execution of projects.
34.       Because of a wide variety of natural resources, together with popu-
lation pressures and inadequate infrastructure, there are marked differences
in living standards between different parts of the country. There are areas
of extreme poverty with little prospect of improvement without Government
intervention in the form of area oriented programs. Planning and implementa-
tion of such area programs could be more flexible in selecting an appropriate
mix and scale of activities for specific areas and, at the same time, make
greater use of technical and management resources of the provincial and
district authorities. In 1974, the Government instituted an Area Development
Program based on selected "critical" areas with special development problems.
Thus far, ten areas have been identified, of which Yogyakarta is one.
Selection criteria included high population density in relation to the
resource base and low per capita income. Two pilot programs have already
been initiated (in Aceh and Central Java provinces) with USAID support. The
proposed project would be a third pilot effort to alleviate rural poverty in
a specific area. On the basis of its evaluation of various project results,
the Government expects to formulate large-scale development programs for
other "critical" areas.
35.       Bank Group Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between
the Bank Group and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies
proposed for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative
emphasis to be given to different investments and on the technical design of
some projects, these differences are not profound and are likely to be
resolved with further analysis and dialogue.
36.       The Bank Group has been, and should continue to be, involved in a
broad range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia. Since the
first irrigation project in 1968, the Bank Group has rapidly expanded its
agricultural and rural lending to include support for estate and smallholder
tree crops, fertilizer production and distribution, sugar estates, support
services, transmigration, livestock and fisheries. Credits already closed
and for which Project Completion Reports have been prepared (e.g., Estates I
(155-IND) and Irrigation I (127-IND)) showed excellent rates of return
ranging from 25% to 33%. Taking 1974 as the base year, by 1980 Bank Group-
assisted projects will contribute almost 60% of the increase in palm oil
output, about 16% of incremental sugar production and 6% of incremental rice
and rubber output. Four continuing trends in the Bank Group's agricultural
and rural development lending to Indonesia are: (a) a shift from rehabili-
tation to new development activities; (b) a shift from support of state
enterprises to direct support of smallholders; (c) greater emphasis on
development of the Other Islands; and (d) an increased emphasis on rainfed
systems, especially "critical areas." In response to the Government's new
initiatives to address the problems of "critical areas," the Bank Group's



- 13 -
lending strategy will include increased emphasis on assisting the Government
to test and formulate policies and approaches for intensified development of
Lhese areas through multi-agency integrated area cievelopment programs. All
these trends are consistent with the Government's changing policies and
reflect the emphasis of the T'hird Development Plan on equity objectives.
Critical Areas
37.        The poorest and most difficult of the critical areas are the
uplands. Through its Greening Movement program and the more recent (1978/79)
extension of BIMAS credit for mixed cropping on an experimental scale, the
Government has initiated actions designed to stabilize and improve productivity
of critical upland areas. However, results so far indicate that a more
comprehensive approach is needed to secure farmers' effective participation.
Furthermore, a major bottlenieck to the expansion of production in the uplands
is likely to be a lack of proven technical packages suitable for extension in
these fragile areas. The resources available to upland farmers are generally
limited to their land, their labor, a few simple farming tools, and limited
livestock; most have no access to capital or credit. Physical and social
infrastructure such as roads and health services is minimal. The land, often
steep and rocky, is generally composed of shallow and unproductive soils.
The farming systems are characterized by an intricate mix of food and tree
crops, vegetables, forest trees and fodder (mostly wild grasses and byproducts
of other crops). The current production systems fully utilize the existing
resource base and thus under present circumstances provide little or no
basis for improvement - increasing one type of production necessarily reduces
another. Moreover, the dynamics of the present system are adverse because
widespread erosion is causing a progressive reduction in yields, bringing about
a further strain on the resource base by compensatory overcropping by farmers
in their at;tempt to secure an immediate redress to the decline in yields and
income.
38.        Soil conservation techniques are known, and there are promising
prospects for introducing genetic improvements in food, fodder and tree
crops as well as for improved cultural practices. However, these potential
improvements will not be adopted or sustained unless they can be combined
into an int:errelated group of actions designed to provide services and
support alt:ernative employment; these measures would introduce enough slack
into the system to allow the farmer to risk adopting fundamental changes in
his pattern of subsistence production.  The results of fragmented approaches
have been clisappointing in easing the situation of the upland farmers. This
is largely because they have failed to introduce any slack into the system;
physical soil conservation works without measures to improve crop production
are seen as an added labor burden without immediate results. Similarly,
improvements in tree crops make no immediate contribution to income. The
labor allocated to these tasks may well, from the farmers' point of view,
detract from the more imperative work of subsistence crop production. Past
experience has demonstrated that any technical solutions proposed must have
the full support and partici pation of the community to be effective, and that
explicit measures are needed to ensure local participation in decisions
about the immediate community's development.



- 14 -
39.        Indications are that the introduction of a less destructive and
more productive farming pattern would imply a higher labor requirement
than the present production system, and therefore it is crucial to increase
labor productivity. Thus, supportive interventions are required. For
example, improved roads would significantly reduce the time spent on porterage;
likewise improved accessibility to water supplies would free a substantial
amount of labor presently spent in water collection. Improved health services
would improve labor productivity and turnout by lessening morbidity. Incomes
derived from the typical small landholdings in the project area are usually
insufficient to meet basic nutritional needs, and during the slack periods
people may turn to cottage industries or other nonfarm employment throughout
the towns and cities of Java. Many engage in such agro-related activities as
wood gathering and tapping of coconut trees for sugar. Nonfarm rural produc-
tion is poorly developed and the value of manufacturing in some areas
has shrunk in recent years, possibly in part because of an influx of cheap,
mass-fabricated goods. Fundamental to the improvement of the performance of
this sector are interventions designed to increase capital formation, improve
worker and management skills and levels of technology, and to develop new
markets. These basic steps, taken in tandem with measures to stabilize and
optimize the land resource base and improve agricultural productivity, would
introduce an element of greater flexibility and more options for the poorest
of the rural population.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.        The proposed project was prepared by the Provincial Development
Planning Board (BAPPEDA) of Yogyakarta under the direction of the National
Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), with outside consultant assistance
from the University of Gadjah Mada and international specialists. The
project was appraised in June and November 1978. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 2336-IND) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
May 7 to 11, 1979 with an Indonesian delegation led by Mr. Radinal Moochtar,
Director General of Urban and Regional Development, Ministry of Public
Works.
The Project Area
41.        The proposed project area comprises the two poorest districts,
Gunung Kidul and Kulon Progo, in the Special Province of Yogyakarta, which is
one of the most impoverished in Indonesia. It covers an area of 3,200 sq km
and has an estimated population of 2.65 million (1977), 80% of whom live in the
rural areas. The average man/land ratio is 1,033 persons per sq km of net
cultivable land. Per capita income in the province in 1978 was about one third



- 15 -
of the national average.  These two districts are particularly poor,
with an annual per capita income estimated at $60./1  The upland areas of
both districts have moderate to steep slopes and terracing efforts in these
areas have so far been inefiective. Erosion has taken a particularly heavy
toll in Gunung Kidul where soils are shallower. Dryland farming is of key
importance in Gunung Kidul, representing about 75% of the cropland area, with
homegardens covering almost another 20%. The main dryland crops are cassava,
maize, upland rice, and groundnuts, typically grown in mixed stands.  Though
single season cropping is characteristic of dryland cultivation, there are,
in some areas, second plant-ings of groundnuts and soy beans, primarily for
sale. In Kulon Progo, home gardens account for over 50% of farmland, with the
remainder divided equally between irrigated and dry rice.
Project Strategy
42.       The project would constitute a first, and essentially experimental,
phase of a longer-term deve:Lopment program designed to increase rural incomes
and to improve living conditions in Yogyakarta. Project components would
focus on alleviating key developmental constraints. The most fundamental of
these bottlenecks are soil erosion and the absence of appropriate agricultural
packages. The project's agricultural components, therefore, focus first on
stabilizing the land base, and second on developing improved technological
packages. The project would also promote other economic activities, including
fisheries, livestock production, and small-scale enterprises. The project
would comrlement and reinforce existing Government programs, several of which
are supported by Bank Group-financed projects, e.g., National Food Crop
Extension (1267-IND), Agricultural Research and Extension I (1179-IND),
Nutrition Development (1373-IND), Fertilizer Distribution (1139-IND) and
Fourth Education (1237-IND). Finally, the project would address key economic
and social infrastructural constraints, including rural roads, health services
and safe drinking water.
43.       In order to ensure its replicability, the project would be executed
by local (provincial and district) authorities through existing management
procedures and organizational structures. The aim is to strengthen and
improve implementation capacity at the local level and to improve the capacity
of the local authorities to coordinate existing and new activities. The
components would be implemented flexibly, at a pace consistent with the
capacities of the responsible agencies.
44.       Many project activities, particularly the agricultural components,
are experiLmental in nature. During the first three years, agricultural activi-
ties would, therefore, be confined to three pilot areas, comprising about
3,650 ha.  They would only be extended to additional areas following an
evaluation to be carried out in consultation with the Association (Section
3.03(c) oi- the draft Development Credit Agreement). When refined, these
approaches would be potentially applicable to the 400,000 ha of similarly
endangered uplands in eastern and central Java.
/1 The absolute poverty level for Indonesia in 1978 was $78.



- 16 -
45.       Other non-agricultural components combine experimental approaches
with existing technologies. A survey to determine the optimum strategy for
long-term, small-scale enterprise development would be supported, and at the
same time immediate credit would be made available through existing facili-
ties. The rural health component would build on the proven success of a
small-scale volunteer health promoter system, used elsewhere in Java. The
village water supply component would expand a UNICEF pilot program for
construction of low-cost, roof rainwater catchment tanks. The rural roads
component would introduce new techniques for constructing and maintaining
low-cost, labor-intensive, all-weather gravel roads. The project would also
introduce community participation training for project staff and project
participants which is designed to overcome the social and cultural con-
straints often encountered in rural development projects. Finally, the
project would strengthen the capabilities of the Provincial Planning Board
(BAPPEDA) to coordinate the project activities of the various participating
agencies, to monitor the project through the development of management
information systems and to plan and prepare future projects.
Project Composition
46.       Specifically, the project would include the following activities.
Total baseline costs are indicated in parentheses:
(a) Agricultural Development ($5.1 million):
(i) Technical Development: development of programs for the
preservation and optimum use of 3,650 ha of erosion-endangered
uplands, over a three year period, to be expanded by 4,000 ha
after a positive evaluation of these programs, comprising:
(a) soil conservation, including dryland terracing, refores-
tation, and the development of silvipasture;
(b) improvement of cropping practices for food crops and
homegardens; and
(c) specialized pre-service, in-service and on-the-job train-
ing for agricultural project staff;
(ii) Inland Fisheries: construction of two new fish hatcheries and
rehabilitation of two existing ones, and strengthening of the
fisheries extension service through training; and
(iii) Livestock: the establishment of four new artificial insemina-
tion subposts, development of extension packages to control
disease and parasite infestation; and upgrading of an existing
livestock market.



- 17 -
(b) Non-Farm Developmant ($1.6 million):
(i)  Small-Scale Fnterprises:  the establishment of a technical
group which would analyze and make recommendations for resolv-
ing the problems currently constraining the growth of the
small-scale ienterprise sector in Yogyakarta Province; and
(ii)  Incremental Credit:  provision of loans to small-scale entre-
preneurs through village branches of Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI), and training of BRI staff in the handling of small-scale
enterprise loans.
(c) Social Services Support ($1.4 million):
(i)  Health:  provision for training about 3,200 volunteer workers
in preventive and primary health care and supplying them with
basic drugs and equipment, as well as teaching about 1,500
elementary school teachers to teach health and nutrition
subjects effectively; and
(ii) Rural Water Supplies: the provision of convenient and safe
drinking water to about 75,000 people through the construction
of about 5,000 roof rainwater catchment tanks in critically
water-short areas.
(d) Rural Roads ($1.8 million): a demonstration road improvement
program designed to upgrade about 215 km of selected village
roads, utilizing low-cost design and construction techniques empha-
sizing labor-intensive methods.
(e) Institutional Development ($1.4 million):
(i) Project Organization and Coordination: the improvement of
provincial planning, coordination, monitoring, evaluation, and
project preparation capability by strengthening the Provincial
Planning Board (BAPPEDA) through the provision of additional
staff and training; and
(ii) Community Participation: the provision of training in commu-
nity development skills for project staff and participants,
and the establishment of a small hamlet development fund for
300 selected hamlets in the project area to test the effec-
tiveness of direct funding of locally initiated development
activities.
Interrelationship of Proposed Project Activities
47.       The large number of proposed project components reflects the complex-
ity of the upland farming systems, and the need to introduce simultaneously a
wide rang,s of supportive measures if the incomes of poor farmers of the
region are to be increased. The agricultural subcomponents include soil
conservation works to stabiLlize land selected for annual cropping. Risers
and banks will be planted with fodder and tree crops as part of the stabili-



- 18 -
zation works, and food crop trials would develop improved cultivation
and cultural practices on the stabilized terraces. Reforestation, silvi-
pasture and tree crops would replace soil-destructive annual cropping systems
on the steeper slopes, requiring development of tree nurseries, improved
fodder production, and cattle fattening packages. Animal health measures
would complement the fodder production and cattle fattening activities and
artificial insemination would result in the genetic improvement of the local
herd. Home garden improvement works would increase the productivity of
commercial crops such as coconuts, cloves, fruits, etc., and improve nutri-
tion levels. The fisheries activities would allow farmers to maximize
the use of available water supplies and provide additional protein.
48.       The rural roads component would significantly improve accessibility
to the upland areas allowing free movement of both inputs and outputs. The
improved roads would also stimulate seasonal employment, increase homecraft
activities, and reduce the time spent in porterage which could be redirected
to soil conservation and other farm improvement works. Wages earned by local
people engaged in building public roads would provide substantial addi-
tional income. The water supply component would contribute to better health
by reducing the incidence of intestinal disorders and relieve family farm
labor of the time-consuming task of water collection. The health component
would increase labor availability for productive employment by reducing the
incidence of morbidity. Finally, the small-scale enterprise support component
would potentially reduce the dependence of the local population on the
ecologically fragile land resource and hence complement other agricultural
and soil conservation activities.
Project Organization, Coordination and Implementation
49.       The project would be implemented by existing provincial line agen-
cies and coordinated by the Provincial Planning Board (BAPPEDA) under the
overall authority of the Governor of Yogyakarta Province. Implementation of
the various components will be the responsibility of full-time managers, who
would be senior officials appointed by the Governor upon the advice of the
heads of the participating line agencies. BAPPEDA would be responsible for
project coordination and, in collaboration with participating agencies, for
preparing quarterly progress reports, the annual work programs and budgets
for the project, and presenting these to the Governor for approval. Copies
of the annual work programs would be forwarded to the Association for its
review. The chief of the Evaluation and Coordination Division of BAPPEDA
would be the project coordinator. Interagency coordination would be accom-
plished by periodic meetings (at least quarterly), under the Chairman of
BAPPEDA, of the component managers, the district heads of Gunung Kidul and
Kulon Progo, the project coordinator and other persons as needed, to review
and discuss implementation matters. In addition, a project coordination unit
would be established in BAPPEDA's Evaluation and Coordination Division which
would establish day-to-day relations with the component managers and their
service heads. The unit would be composed of support staff in accounting,
procurement, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation, and would be responsible
for monitoring project activities and expenditures, providing data on project
progress, handling procurement under local and international competitive



- 19 -
bidding, evaluating selected activities of the project, and coordinating
follow-up project preparation. The establishment of the project coordination
unit and appointment of its key senior staff of project coordinator, financial
officer and budget officer, would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.Cl of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       Project components would be implemented as follows:
(a) a Technical Development Cell within the Provincial Agricultural
Service would be responsible for implementing the agronomic
trials and pilot programs in soil conservation and irrigation,
and the reforestation/silvipasture and home garden improvement
components;
(b) the Provincial Fisheries Service would be the executive
authority for the inland fisheries component;
(c)  the Provincial Livestock Service would be responsible
for the livestock component;
(d)  tlhe Provincial Industries Service would have overall respon-
sibility for coordiLnating the activities of the small-scale enter-
prise component. A Technical Cell within the Service would
uadertake survey, planning and extension work.  A Small-Scale
Enterprise Promotion Committee consisting of the heads of the
participating agencies would be established to ensure the internal
coordination of th:is component;
(e) the Provincial Hea:Lth Service would be the executive authority
for the health and water supplies components. Contracts for
physical implementation of the health extension subcomponent would
be entered into with the Gadjah Mada University Comprehensive
Community Health Care Department and, it is expected, with DIAN
DESA, a private nonprofit Indonesian technology group for rural
water supply;
(f) the District Public Works Services in Gunung Kidul and Kulon
Progo would be responsible for their respective rural roads
components; and
(g) the Provincial Directorate of Rural Development would have
administrative responsibility for the development participation
component and, it is expected, would enter into a contract with
'Yayasan Indonesia Sejahtera (YIS - a private nonprofit Indonesian
community group) to implement the component.
51.       The appointment of a component manager would be a condition of
disbursement for each component (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Other disbursement conditions would be the establishment
and key staffing of the Technical Cells for the agricultural and small-scale
enterprise components (Schedule 1 paras. 4(b) and (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement) and the conclusion of the contracts by the Provincial



- 20 -
Health Service, for the health and water supplies component, and Provincial
Directorate of Rural Development, for the development participation component
(Schedule 1 paras. 4(d), (e) and (g) of the draft Developmetnt Credit Agree-
ment). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: the Government
would provide staff for key posts by specified dates which have been agreed
(Schedule 2 of the draft Development Credit Agreement) and would provide the
Association with plans and procedures for ensuring the maintenance of soil
conservation and road works carried out under the project by April 1, 1982
(Schedule 2, Sections A.l(d) and C.3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs
52.       Total project costs are estimated at $19.0 million, net of taxes,
of which $2.7 million is the foreign exchange component. Physical contin-
gencies of 20% have been applied to the rural road construction costs; 10% to
all other construction costs; and 5% to vehicle procurement costs. Local
baseline costs, estimated as of November 1978, are exceptionally low in US
dollar terms, following the 50% rupiah devaluation in November 1978.  However,
domestic inflation is expected to be substantial during the early part of the
project, and price contingencies need to be higher than usual. Total price
contingencies are thus 65% of the baseline costs, assuming the following
rates of price increase: local costs at 30% in 1979, 20% in 1980, 15% in
1981-82, and 10% thereafter; and foreign costs at 7% annually. The direct
costs of foreign consultants (salaries, overseas allowance and company
overhead and fee) amount to $5,600 per man-month for long-term consultants
and $6,400 per man-month for short-term consultants; indirect costs (travel,
housing, office and miscellaneous expenses) would bring the total costs to
$7,000 and $8,000 per man-month, respectively. Total costs of local consul-
tants would be about $650 per man-month.
Financing Arrangements
53.       The proposed credit of $12 million would finance 63% of total
project costs. It would cover the full foreign exchange costs ($2.7 million)
and local costs ($9.3 million). Financing of local costs is considered
justified because this high priority project has a relatively low foreign
exchange component and due to the heavy demands on public resources (para.
17). The Government would provide the remaining Rp 4,360 million ($7.0 mil-
lion). Project beneficiaries would contribute in varying proportions to
the cost of on-farm development. These contributions would all be in kind
and, therefore, have not been included in the project cost estimates.
Procurement and Disbursements
54.       Contracts for vehicles and equipment purchases would be grouped
wherever possible in packages of $100,000 or more (totalling $1.0 million
including contingencies) and awarded under international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference equal to
15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be



- 21 -
extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.  Con-
tracts for not more than eight vehicles for start up purposes would be
awarded on the basis of the Borrower's normal procedures. Contracts for
purchases wihich cannot be bu:Lked in packages of $100,000 or more and which
are not suitable for internalLional competitive bidding would be awarded on
the basis of the normal Government procedures, which are satisfactory; the
aggregate amount of such contracts would not exceed US$0.5 million
equivalent.  All bidding documents for vehicles and equipment estimated to
cost $100,000 or more and for studies costing $15,000 or more would be
submitted to the Association for approval before bidding and award.
55.       Contracts for building construction and rehabilitation of existing
buildings are considered to be too small to be of interest to international
contractors. These works would be carried out following competitive bidding,
advertised locally. Construction of rural roads would be carried out by
village labor on force account.
56.       Ihe proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported vehicles and
Equipment;
(b) 100% of the ex-factory cost for locally manufactured equipment pro-
c:ured under international competitive bidding;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for consultant services and 100% of
i-oreign expenditures for training;
(d) 40% of costs of locally procured vehicles not purchased under
:international competitive bidding; and
(e)  7'0% of all other eligible project items, excluding credit.
Disbursement applications fcor expenditures under categories (a) through (d)
will be fu:Lly documented; disbursement for expenditures under (e) would be
against statements of expenditure by BAPPEDA, with the supporting documenta-
tion being available for review by supervision missions. Credit requirements
are included in the project costs to ensure their timely provision, but not
in its financing since funds are available to increase allocations to BRI.
Cost Recovery
57.       Given the experimental nature of the project and the poverty of
the target group, an initially low level of cost recovery is to be expected.
Except for the terracing component in which farmers would contribute 40%
of establishment costs, all incremental capital costs will be financed by
the Government. This level of contribution by project beneficiaries is
acceptable because their per capita incomes would remain below the critical
consumption level, for rura:L Java, of Rp 48,000 throughout the life of the
project. However, the Government's incremental fiscal burden after project
completion would be low because most incremental operating costs would be
borne by the project beneficiaries, who would produce the incremental



- 22 -
agricultural production, own and maintain the water tanks, become the
volunteers who would staff the health component, and contribute voluntary
labor for maintenance of the roads. It is expected that levels of cost
recovery would increase over time.
Benefits and Justification
58.       The project would test and extend a number of experimental
approaches to rural development designed to reduce the extreme poverty which
now exists in the two poorest districts of Yogyakarta. The agricultural
component would: (a) test the viability of agronomic and hill-farming
techniques developed in the FAO-assisted Upper Solo Watershed Project;
(b) develop a basis for protecting thousands of hectares of agricultural land
presently threatened by serious erosion throughout Java; and (c) help to
reduce severe siltage of downstream irrigation works in the Yogyakarta area.
Local participation in the project is intended to ensure the success of the
innovative technical measures. The health component would contribute to
improving rural health conditions, reaching as many as 400,000 people, at an
estimated annual cost of $0.30 per capita. The village water supply program
would provide potable water for about 75,000 people in the drought area of
the Gunung Kidul district at an average annual cost of $0.50 per beneficiary.
The village road component would introduce and demonstrate labor-intensive
gravel road construction technology and strengthen the district Public Works
Department's capability to improve the technical standards and maintenance of
rural roads.  The small-scale enterprise component would initiate a system of
technical assistance for small-scale entrepreneurs and improve their access
to credit. The project's management and coordination system would introduce
financial procedures and a planning, monitoring, and evaluation system,
designed to increase the effectiveness of Yogyakarta's provincial development
programs.
59.       The major long-term benefit of the project will be the identifica-
tion of relevant developmental packages which could be replicated throughout
the country. For example, even in the two project districts, agricultural
components could be expanded to cover an estimated 70,000 ha of land which
would otherwise be severely damaged through erosion over the next 20-30
years. The health system could eventually be used throughout rural Java.
The rural road construction and maintenance management system could reduce
the current rapid rate of deterioration in rural roads built under village
self-help programs - approximately 2,000 km in the two districts.
60.       More immediate economic benefits include: first, the substitution
of productive on-farm employment for marginal activities for 1,000 families
in Gunung Kidul and 1,600 families in Kulon Progo; second, the road
construction and village water supply components will provide approximately
400,000 person-days of temporary employment per year during the life of the
project; third, the fisheries component would create a permanent source of
protein by providing an estimated 470 tons of incremental fish production per
annum at full development; and fourth, the increased availability of foodstuffs
from food crop and home garden improvement. Given the experimental nature of
the project components, no overall economic rate of return has been calculated.
However, the economic rates of return are estimated at 13% for silvipasture,
14% for terracing, and 11% for the rural roads component. This last figure



- 23 -
understates the net benefits of the roads component because the value added
of induced production has not been quantified.
Risks
61.       Sensitivity analysis was used to deterrine how much negative
deviation from appraisal estimates in respect of critical variables is
permissible before the economic basis for the project is undermined. With
the critical rate of return taken as 10%, results indicate considerable sensi-
tivity to shortfall in project benefits (road-user savings or crop yields and
prices), w:Lth permaissible shortfalls varying from 10% to 20%, while on the
cost side the range is from 10% to 30%. The results underline the difficulty
of initiating effective development programs in such marginal areas. They
also indicate that the proposed approach, involving an experimental and
small-scale first phase, is fully appropriate in the light of the evident
risk and uncertainties. In general, the realization of benefits will depend
on the pace of farmer acceptance of the new technologies, the degree of
coordination at the provinciLal level, and the efficiency of the local autho-
rities in implementing the project. Considerable attention has been given to
minimizing these risks in the detailed project design.  First, flexibility in
project design would allow adjustments to be made during project implementation.
Second, the emphasis on local participation would intensify the involvement
of beneficiaries in project implementation and thereby increase the prob-
ability of project success. Third, close monitoring and evaluation will be
an additional safeguard.
62.       rhe project represents a modest but critical effort to improve
living conditions in some of the poorest regions in Indonesia. WJhile small
in scale, the project promises to help resolve one of the most difficult
development issues on the island of Java, viz. how to halt the cumulative
deterioration of the meager resource base in crowded upland areas.
Environmental Impact
63.       The project would have a positive environmental imdpact in the two
districts. Reforestation and soil conservation wiould arrest soil erosion and
the rapid deterioration of soil fertility in the areas selected for treat-
ment.  The project would closely monitor and measure this impact.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMEN4TS AND AUT-HORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for under Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 24 -
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The establishment of the Project Coordination Unit and its
staffing by the project coordinator, financial officer and budget officer,
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 29, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA 
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1904.3                                                      SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURjIL    283.8                                   MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    19 70 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROLP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    70.0        140.0     300.0            616.0       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUliPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       129.0       120.0      178.0            522.0       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPU_ATION. MID-YEAR
(-II LLIONS)                       94.7        117.6      133.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9          17.5       17.9             30.1        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         500        62.0       70.0            156.8       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0         419.0      470.0            794.8      254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.1 /f      44.0       42.1             40.8       43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          55.3 Tf      53.5      5.1              55.4       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6 /f      2.5        2.8              3.2         2.9          3.0
PO.'ULATIQN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1         2.0        2.0              2.3         2.4          2.7
JRBAN                                            3.7 IR    2.6               5.1        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRIH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.0         45.9      40.3             34.6        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEAIH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       25.4         20.6      19.9              8.7        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8          3.2       2.5              2.6         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       181.1    1979.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           0.2       13.7             22.1        14.6        14.2
FPOD AND NUT RITION
INDEX OF  OOD PRODUCTION
PER CAP1:TA (1970-100)              96.5       100.0      102.7            106.8       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIE!S (PERCENT OP
REQUtitEMENTS)                    89.0        91.0       98.0            108.7       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            41.0        43.0       43.8             57.7       50.0         56.8
OF WlltCH ANIMAL AND PULSE        15.0 /h     14.0       16.6             17.0        13.9        17.5
CHlILD (ACrES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..          ..         ..              4.0          ..          7.5
HEALTH
LtFE EzxPE-TANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.5         45.0       45.3             59.0        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            125.0 /f.i      ..     116.0             44.0       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          3.0      11.0             21.9        26.4        31.1
URBAN                                 ..         10.0      41.0             58.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                 *-         1.0        4.0              9.8        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO ElCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                            12.0      15.0             28.6        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 . .       50.0       60.0             66.6        65.9        69.5
RURAL                                 ..         4.0        5.0             14.8         3.4        25.4
POPULATICN PER PHYSICIAN           41380.0 /i  26830.0   16930.0            4103.1    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      7770.0 /i 7310.0 /i         1520.2      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATICN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1370.0      1670.0    1430.0             657.1      1157.6       786.5
URBAN                                 ..      1130.0         ..            145.5       183.3       278.4
RURAL                                 ..      1890.0         ..           1011.8      1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIObS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..             19.0        19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.4         4.8         ..              5.2         5.2
URBAN                                4.9          5.3        ..              5.2         4.8
RURAL                                4.3         4.7         ..              5.4         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          1.5
URBAN                                 ..          1.6        ..               ..         1.8          2.3
RURAL                                 ..          1.6        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELL]NGS)
RTALN                                                                       39.1        25.9        28.3
R AL  ..    **         ....                       8.7         10.3



- 26 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDONESiA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                               /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTImATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Ie
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 67.0         75.0      81.0             95.6       62.9         75.8
FEIALE               55.0         70.0      75.0             93.7        45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  6.0         15.0      18.0            43.3        14.4         17.7
FENALE                3.0         11.0      13.0             38.6         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0         22.0       21.0             11.3        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0        29.0       30.0             30.0       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                          14.0         13.0      15.0             25.4       19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        47.0 /k      59.0      62.0 /k          84.0       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0         2.0        3.0             9.3         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0           *-      39.0            97.6        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.7         *.             21.8        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..      16.0             25.9        6.0         16.3
CINEMtA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        ..              4.6        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0      44200.0   48430.0 /1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   27.9         31.0      34.2             33.2       24.2         28.G
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              75.0        69.0       60.1             48.4       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.4         9.7        8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                54.1         49.9      52.6             38.9       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 79.8         68.7      73.8             48.6       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               29.4         32.1      36.8             28.4       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4          1.3       1.2              1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         33.7 /m     ..             17.3       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         52.0 /m      ..             45.6       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         6.8 /m      ..              6.5        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         17.3 /m     ..             17.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     125.0            140.8       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      95.0            112.8       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..      100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      55.0             76.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0             27.7       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      59.0             40.4       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550
per capita, 1976);   /f  Excludes W. Irian;   /R  1961-71;   /h  1961-63;   /i  1962;   Li  Including
midwives;   /k  Aged 10 years and over;  /1  Excludes rural areas in East Nusa Tenggara, Maluku and
Irian Jays; 7m  Income recipients.
September 1978



-27-                                                     ~~~~~AMlEX I
27 -                                                ~~~~~~Page 3 of 5
DEtCINITIONS OF hOC!it. INDltCATORS
Noe:  '.-gh  re data ore drawn from sorces generally judged rho most authoritativ.eand riai.it should also he noted char then may not he inter-
nationall1  comparable   .nes   of the lack of standardi.ed definitions and concepts  used ho different  contries  in colleting the data.  The data are. eunetheless.
usefi'l to describe orders ci nagnito~de, indicats trends, sod characterize certain rajor differences hetween co-ntriec.
The adu:a roup  -vsragea  far each indicator are popu Lation--righted geometric mn-o  eccluding the no-on   -oI es of the indicator and the mast
popoIated .ooncr  in oc  grouf.  Coosrof countrien am,ong the indicators depends or a..eil,hllit- of dr    :d is  -v: uniform.  flo  to lack of data,
g,roop aerge       r CapItsi   osl-   -  I fop-rteos  and indinatorn  of uccean to cater ond e-oret. lmcp-oa. hvu-ing.  -n-e distribution and p-nert  are
aml _euaiu-.e iccrd eec'neci:  eans without the  o-l-in- of entreno nalues.
LAND_AR~EA  -c ucod sin. Em)                                                                 Peculation per hospital bed -total, orhan, and ral-Population (total.
Total -         curfsce- area comprising land area cod inland waters.                         orban, and  rura) divded ny their respective number of hospital beda
Aaric 1L.-c.e  - hoot recen.t ectim,ate of agricultural area used temporarily                 availahi in puhlic and private general and Speclalioed hospital and no-
opermanently. for c-ops, castures. market and kitchen. gardens or to                     habilitation center.-   Hospitals are estahllshmer           emmetty    afe   y
-lie  -1ilow.                                                                                       at lean.t one physician.  Establiohrects  P-ovid-cg prlocipalIly custodial
caasenortncludod.  Rural h-pyttais.  ho,--a, include health and -cdi-
GNP' PER CAPITA ( j-CPprcptatiaaatcretmcepiescarntersou  per.naentlo ecaffed by a physicion (hut hy a medical as-
ca1co1uced by Same crariomethod aso World Bank Atlas (1975-77 hoots);                       siotenc, nus,midwife, etc.) which  fifer ic-patient ac                    iood tlo  end
1960, 1977, sod 1977 data.                                                                  provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissi,onsp2er hoanloit. bed - Total oceher of admissions to or discharges
VtRPY CONhlyMTlOi PER CAPITA - Annual consumption. of romercia1 energy                         from  hsitals divided by the numher cf beds.
(coal and lignica, pet-uleum, naca-I gas aad bodro-, sunls.c and geo-
therma  eecriit)in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                           HlOLIfiN
Aversage shoe   fhousekuid (nersoos per h,ous~ehold),- Itta,   rban, cod rural-
POPULtATIONc AND VITAL ilATISTItS                                                              A household' coosloto of a group of indinidu    whtosha1re lining quarcers
Tatal popolo-tion. nd-yeor (millions).   As of July 1; if not available,                      aod their main nests.  Abhoarder or lodger nay or may not be included in
averagSe STEt1end-yeae  estimates; 1960, 1970, and 197 dta                                  the bousehoid for Statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of houses-
Urban population  (  roeret of total) - Ratio of  ranto  totalpopula-                         hold nary.
lion) different definitins of urban areas may affect comparshility                       Average number of persons per room - total, urban, end rural - Average mum-
of dsat  amangcountries,                                                                    her of persons per room in all, urban, and rura  occpied no---nenional
Poultondnec                                                                          dwellings. reape:ccinely.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent etroccures end
Pe%    o.bn,-Mid[-year population per square kilometer (100 hectores)                        ..noccupiedperts
of coel area.                                                                            Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
per so. k.. agriculture lochd - Computed ma above for agricultural lsnd                      Conventional doellinga with electricity in. living quarters as perrantage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural ducolliegs respectively.
Pauaio   g   tructure )ps:rnt)- Children (0-14 years), corking-age
(15-64 yeagrs),ad ratiree. (65 years and over) as Percentages of mid-                  EtDUCATION
year population.                                                                        Adjusted enrollment rotios
Population growth rots foe,rceoc)              _ oc,and urban - Compound annual            Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of sil ages
growth rates of totalcdurban mid-year populationo  for 1950-go,                             at the primary level an percentages of respectively primary school-age
lqt-0  and 1970-75.                                                                     popolattons n; ormalIly includes childre  aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude hit harte (er thousisod) - Annual line bitbhs per thousand of                           differeor lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edo-
aid-year Popuain    e-er  rtmtcoeages ending in16cn ation enroilmant may anosed 100 percent Since some pupils are below or
1970 and  in-ear aeaoending in 1975 for soart recent estimate.                              uhove the official school age.
Crude dath rar  (or thoous-di  - Ann..sI deaths per thousand of mid-                        Secoodarn School - total. and femalo - Computed as above; secondary mducc-
year Ppof,ultIn'l  ten-year onitbametic averages d eoIng in 1960 aid 197i                   tion requires at least tour years of epproned primary instruction; pro-
and fine- year  -vesug  ending In 197) for most recent estimate.                            nides gemors v- ato1l  or teacher training instructions for pupils
lroes reprod uction rate - Average numher of daughters a woman will bear                      usua.lly of 12 to 17 years of age; cer-epnndeocs ocursee era generally
is. her normal nepr-d-ctive period if she experiences present age-                         ecluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1961,                     Voa Ioa  enrollment )perrent of aecoodarn) - Voscaional institutions in-
1970, and 1979.                                                                          eoain lude technical, industril.  or other programs which operate Independently
Family planning_- acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                            or as departments of Secondery institutions.
acceptors of birth-control denictee undsr auspices of national family                   PuPil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Totalfstudents enrolled in
pelananin  program.                                                                          primarygand secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corres-
famly planeno -"uses (Percent of esreiad women) - Prertosotg  of                            sponding levels..
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                  Adult,,literery rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and writs) as
danucas te oIl  -aco-   Queen to sane age gr-'p.                                            a p    -onnga of tonal odult poyclacon aged 11 peers and over.
IOa     iQc c"       A..fL..btl                   -neon nun`ic: uf per                P--uooet cars yPer th,ousuc  c.clccc              Pasuengor cars compciso motor cars
nayica  ~tcsl yrl.u;tcoec~ all  cusc-dutISs                                    soatlg lass ohan eight parsons;  -olud-u anbulanoes, hearses and military
Per  iapt  suppyof caiurl   (p ernt of racuiremnets) -Coziputad from                       vhicles
energy aqoinastorfn net food euppliss snailable  -n country, yen capita.                 ai ran,.vesiouhsv.....u.d                io:    Allctyposiof  acaive.a fone radio
per day.  A'vailable supplies camprise done.atic prodaction, imyorta es Iroadrasro ; to gennralthpubluc per thousad  f     poplaton; exoludes unlicensed
export., and changes in stock.  Net oupplies eoclude anima:. Bead, seeds,                receivers in cou ntr'ies.rd in years whe:n registration. cf radio sets was in
'uattls used in loud processing, and losses in dIstribution     Re-                  effect; data fun recent years may not he coparable since mast countries
quiremanta were .esc.naad hy PAD based on physiological needs for nor-                   aholinhed licensing.
msl activity and  ealuhb cosderingeniomta   temperature, body                           TV receivers  e   huaduplco    - 'V receivers for brosdcastccger
oitbn, age and sa  dietributions of population, and all-onic  10 par-                     public Pen th-unnd population; .s. ludes uioedTV re..einses is nou--
cent for wasteat housohtIdIlevel,                                                           tries end In years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita  upl  of protein. (scams per day) - Potrein Content of per                     Niewspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average cirouls-
capita net supply of fobs Par day.  Net supply of food is defined as                        tIco. of "daily general interest navapaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  'Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                     ration denoted primarily to recording gsn. arl news.  It is considered to
a minimu  allowance of hi grams of total protain per day and 20 grams                       be "dalvy'  if it appearsalet four tines a seek.
of animal sod pulse prot.in, of which 15 grams should be animal protsin.                Cinema...  asa tl oiedsnos oar carica teo year - Sse  o  the  nuber of tickest
These standards are Iover than those of 75 grams of total protein and                       sold during the year.  including adnissione to drive-in cinemas and mobile,
23 grams of An imal  .r.ce:.n a.Se anvonsage for the eorld, proposed by                    urits.
-            P~~~AP in the Tbird World Poo.d Survey.
Per ca!pitafprutain supply irron snima  andulse  -Proteio suoply of food                 EIPIOYhENT
derivad from animals and pulses in grams per dAy.                                       Total labor force (thousands) - fEonos..iclly eccin- persons, including armed
Child Caosa 1-4) mortality rata (par thousand)  - Annual deetms per thoss-                    forces and unemployed but e-ldieg hueIvs    tudents, ecl.  Defioi-
and In age, group 1-4 pes-s, to children in this aeg  group.                                tions In vaniooa ..o.ntrieS are not comparable.
Fesale (percent) - Female labor force as Percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                     Acricu1ture (percent) - Labor force. in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life estectancy at birth (sears)- Anerage.number of years of life                             as percentage of total labo r force.
rema ining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 19             90              noty(ecnl-lborfre in ricing, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                   electricity, water and gao us percentage of total labor forcs.
Infant M,ortalict rate (psr thoea.nd) -Annua  deaths of infants under                     Participation. rate (percent) - total. male, end female - Total, male, and
ons year of agetper thousand lIve bierht,                                                   female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access tr safe waer (percint of populetion) - total, urban, and rural -                       These are ILO's adjusted partinipetion races reflecting age-see
*            ~~~~Number nI people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonablea           as tstructure of the population. ld long tins trend.
safe corer eapply (incluas trceated surface waters or untreatehot                       EcnmcdRoec                  atio     utI  of population under 15 and 65 and onec to
uc:t, taminated water morn so that from protected borsholes, springs,                       the labor force In ege e,crp of i-hi neersr.
ard crtr   -ell) as paro.tniges of their respactino populations.
In an urbon area a public fountain or standyosi located not more                       INtfME DISTRIBiTiODN
then 20fl caro     from a house may be conaidered as being within raem-                 PercenItage of private tonone  'hct' In cuob and bind) received by richest 5
soneble osuuf that h-ous.  In rural areas reasonable aicess woulId                          percen, richest  20 perecnt, pooros.t it percent, and poorest 40 percen.t
imply ca.t the housewife or monhers of the household do not have to                         of households.
spend a dlsyroportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water  _cda.                                                                           POVERTY TARGiT GROUPS
kneessto enocrc- diso.sa. Itercent of nnulation) -  rtotal, urban. and                     Etirnced absolute poverty income lenel (US$ oar capita) - urban and rural-
rural - limber of people (totarl, urban,  ndrural) sevs   y eacreta                           Absolote preert'.  Incore level Is that income level below which a minimal
disposal an percentages of their respective populations,   Excreta                          nutritionally odequate diet plus  Sessetial coot-food requirements is not
disposal no; include tho collection and disposal, sick on uthouafrdblt
treatment, Of humor. ecretasnd waste-water by water-borne systems                      istimtre relt-e poverty income local  Li5i net capita) - urbas end rural-
or the 1..sa  f pit privias and similar ilorullontons.                                      helutine poverty, income level is ccat income level less them one-third
Pnoslstion, ner phvioa.  - Population divided by number of vracticing                         per capita personal Intos  of rho  -cntev.
phy sic'ans quallifie  iron a vedial achool an unicority level.                         Eott,oated Ponulatier hale   ppv-Erc   1o.e eel )Dercentl - urbam and rural-
Ppltion par narsina' arsoo - Populatiun dicided by numher of                               Percent of  ppulaoine      r ,rr  aod -rarl) who are either 'absolute poor' or
prciig mae  an,.d female graduate ouroms, cractca1 -armes,  and                        "relativ  peo .....tcooru
assistant turoen
rzononoc and Social Da.ta Division
cton   A-.f   b Syis ant Projections Department



-28-                                     ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GRO,TH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                         1960-65             1965-70        1971-77
GNP at Market Prices           44,386        100.0                          1.9                4.9            7.8
Gross Domestic Investment       8,667         19.5                          3.3               11.5           13.4
Gross National Saving           8,448         19.0                          5.8                5.1           16.9
Current Account Balance       -   725      -   1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           7,592         17.1                          1.5                7.8           10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           7,489         16.9                          0.2               10.9           18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                    Labor Force2                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                                                               W        3 Mln.  US $
Agriculture                    11,624       31.1                 35.3       62.6                  329          49.7
Industry                       12,672       33.9                  4.7        8.3                2,696         407.3
Services                       13,043       35.0                 13.4       23.8                  973         147.0
Unallocated                      -            -                   3.0        5.3
Total/Average            .
37.339     lOO.O                  56.4     100.0                   662'       lOO O
GOVERNMNT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp. Billion)                                           % of GDP
1976/77             1977/78                           1976,                1977
Current Receipts               2,877               3,535        '                    18.6                 18.6
Current Expenditure            1,610               2,149                             10.4                 11.3
Current Surplus                1,267               1,387                             P.2                   7.3
Capital Expenditures           2,044               2,157                            13.2                  11.3
External Assistance (net)        784                 773                              5.0                  4.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   l972          1973         1974         1975         1976         1977
(billion Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                        695           987        1,452       1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector                 129           153         209          990        1,051          865
Bank Credit to Private Sector                524           932       1,186        1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers;)
Money and Quasi M4oney as % of GDP            15.2          14.6         14.8         16.3        17.0         16.5
General Price Index (1966 = 100)             807         1,028.      1,370        1,640        1,873        2,094
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                           25.7          27.4         33.3         19.7        14.2         11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                  14.0          18.6         36.6       473.7         ,6.2        -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                 65.3          77.9        27.2         16.0         26.2         18.8
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Coniversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1
-t Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed wrkers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979



-29 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWSG
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975     1976      1977(Provisional)                                      US  $ )nn    %
(Millions US $)
Exports:                        4,738   67183    7,592                 Oil                                  2,906      57.1
Oil (net)                    2,921   3,56i'    4,243                 Timber                                 605      11.9
Non oil                       1,817   2,216    3,349                 Rubber                                 461       9.1
Imports                       -5,533  -6,3 52   -_7489                 Palm Oil                               117       2.3
Resource Gap                -  795  -  169        103                Tin                                    107       2.1
Factor service:               -  462  -  64f6   -  828                 Coffee                                 104       2.0
Interest                    -  178  -  362   -  473
Investment Income           -  284  -  284   -  355                    All other commodities                791      15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -  8P.F  -   7S=                           Total                        5,=WF   100,0
Direct Foreign Investment        497      329       286                EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               2,395   2,327    1,988                                                               US $ MISt
Amortization               -  322  -  62.5   -  826
Subtotal                    2,073   1,702    1,162                    Public Debt, incl. guatanteed               11,391
Capital Grants                    .-      *-        *-                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           -2,250  -  205        474                  Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -   46  -  604                             TtIsbre
Increase in Reserves (+)       - 3        736    1,197                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 197_1  -
Gross Reserves (end year)        590   1,494    2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)        490   1,226    2,423                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Ms,terials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Lnports                          93     119        28
of which:  Petroleum          89      114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       2,921   3,567    4,243           IBRD/IDA LENDING,(April 30.  1979)(Million US $):
IBRD         IDA,
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                              -            -
2/                Outstanding & Disbursed                634.5       518.1
Throuih  - Aug. 1971             Since  - 197:-                    Undisbursed                         1,268.5        184.3
US $ 1.00   Rp  75               US $ 1.00 = Rp 415                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    1,903.0           701.4
Rp   1000   US $2.67             pp   9V0O = US $2.41
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/  Since 11/15/78
USS 1.00 - Rp 625
Rp 1000 - US$ 1.60
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Progr=m3
April 30, 1979



- 30 -                  ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                       Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
One Loan and eighteen Credits fully disbursed               50.0  238.8        -
220     1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                    14.5       0.2
259     1971    Tea                                                15.0       0.6
260     1971    Second Highway                                     34.0       0.2
289     1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                   12.5       0.2
300     1972    Population                                         13.2       2.9
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                   8.5       1.7
319     1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                        11.0       1.9
355     1973    Beef Cattle Development                             3.6       0.2
358     1973    North Sumatra Smallholder Development               5.0       0.8
387     1973    Third Education                                    13.5       4.7
388     1973    Third Highway                                      14.0       0.1
399     1973    West Java Thermal Power                            46.0       3.7
400     1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                  7.8       6.3
405     1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                      50.0       0.7
428     1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.5       9.9
436     1974    Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                               10.0      0.7
451     1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.0       1.9
479     1974    Bali Tourism                                       16.0      10.3
480     1974    Fisheries Credit                                    6.5       1.9
514     1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     30.0      21.9
785     1978    Small Enterprise Development Project               40.0      34.3
827     1978    Rural Credit                                       30.0      30.0
869     1979    Polytechnic                                        49.0      49.0
1005    1974    Railway                                    48.0               3.2
1040    1975    Jakarta Urban Development                  25.0               2.5
1049    1975    Five Cities Water Supply                   14.5               7.6
1089    1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.0               1.3
1100    1975    Sixth Irrigation                           65.0             48.4
1127    1975    Fourth Power                               41.0               3.6
1139    1976    Fertilizer Distribution                    68.0               1.1
1179    1976    Agricultural Research & Extension          21.5              18.4
1197    1976    National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.0               8.5
1236    1976    Fourth Highway                            130.0              98.2



-31-                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1237    1976    Fourth EducaLtion                            37.0              30.9
1250    1976    Second Shipping                              54.0              46.6
1254    1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                   70.0              13.0
1259    19,76    Fifth Power                                 90.0              66.2
1267    1976    National Food Crops Extension                22.0              15.0
1268    1976    Seventh Irrigation                           33.0              20.1
1318    19:77    Transmigration and Rural
Development                              30.0               22.5
1336    1977    Second Urban Development                     52.5              21.6
1337    1977    Tanjung Priok Port                           32.0              22.6
1363    1977    Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II')                              15.0              12.3
1365    1977    Sixth Power                                 116.0              83.7
1373    1977    Nutrition Development                        13.0              12.9
1433    1977    Teacher Tra:ining-Fifth Education            19.0              17.8
1434    1977    Eighth Irrigation                            63.0              60.9
1435    1977    Ninth Irrigation                             35.0              30.6
1437    1977    Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                            40.0               23.3
1472    1977    Second Population                            24.5              23.0
1486    1978    Non-Formal Education                         15.0              14.2
1499    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I           65.0              60.1
1513    1978    Seventh Power                               109.0             108.4
S 009   1978    Bukit Asam Coal Mlining and Transport
Engineering                               10.0                8.3
1578    1978    Tenth Irrigation                            140.0             137.0
1579    1978    Eleventh Irrigation                          31.0              28.9
1604    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II          65.0              65.0
1645    1979    Irrigation XII                               77.0              77.0
1653    1979    Third Urban. Development /a                  54.0              54.0
Total                                            1,903.0  701.4   1,452.8
of which has been, repaid                         16.7    0.0
Total now outstanding                            1,886.3  701.4
Amount sold                                         28.1    0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                1,858.2  701.4
Total undisbursed                                1,268.5  184.3   1,452.8
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 32 -              ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20 pages
B. STATEMIENT OF IFC INVESTIENTS (as of April 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                Type of                    US$ million
Year         Obligor                  business             Loan    Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               10.6     2.5        13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles              2.5     0.8         3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia               Textiles              2.0     0.5         2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                 2.8     0.4         3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
l4anuf. Corp.           Textiles              4.5      1.5         6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. HIotel    Tourism                11.0      -         11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                5.4     0.7         6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia               Textiles              2.0     0.3         2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics           0.9      -          0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5         0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles              2.4     0.6         3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0      1.5         6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -      1.1          1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.            Textiles              0.3      -           0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles              1.4     0.1         1.5
Total                                                50.8    10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  29.7      1.8        31.5
Total held by IFC                                    21.1      8.7        29.8
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)          -        -           -



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agricullture                                                                   Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,
1579 and 1645)                                                  5-6
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)           6-9
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                              9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                     10
EducatiDn (Cr. 387, 869, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                              11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                    12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (LLn. 1089 and 1254)                                   14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                 14
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)               15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                        15
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                            15-16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                         16
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                    16-17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                           17
Highways (Ln. 1236)                                                          17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                      18
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                             18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                          18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                              19
Urban D)evelopment (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653/2)                                 19-20
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                        20
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



- 34 -                  ANNEX IT
Page 5 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
or March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate, due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and
unexpected inflation. The project is expected to be completed shortly.
Feasibility studies included in the project have been concluded and ground-
water investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140%
over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes in
the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other compo-
nents. These will be verified as bids are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.



- 35 -                ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Disbursements are somewhat ahead of schedule, and the project is
being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing satis-
factorily. Some tender documents have been prepared and contracts are
expected to be let this year. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 MIillion Loan of December 29,
1978. Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made. The Loan has just been declared
effective.
Other Agrriculture Production
Credit tNo. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead ol project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded



- 36-                    ANNEXII
Page 7 of 20 pages
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal est- 
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
nas been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal
estimate, but the economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over
20%.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
june 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good, with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remain'ng area to be planted is about 3,500 ha, of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance, but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
also participating in the Transmigration and Rural Development Project
(Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Developmant: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems seriously delayed project implementation.  The
Government's budget allocation was insufficient, and financial management and
coordination were weak. Changes in the scope and design of the project,
from one of breeding and fattening of beef catzle for export to that of
productio.. of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and breeding
animals, were approved by tne Executive Directors in June 1977. The project
was reviewed -n November 1977 and May 1978 and is now being implemented
satisfactorily.
CreciL No. 358   Nortn Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date:  August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Pro-ress continues to be satisfactory, and the expected program of
lIaancini rubb.er and oil palm by smallholders was accomplished at the end of
197'.  Bv  5931, wr.en the project is completed, these plantings will have been
brougrht to macur;rty.  The Government has decided not to expand the project in
-_ pIes.   -ocat-on because of tne extensive support already being given to
North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported projects;



- 37 -                 ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20 pages
instead, the Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for smallholder
development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Yalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1982.
Since smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on
replanting and less on rehabilitation, the mix had to be changed, thereby
reducing the overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Although
production will not be affected, since yields from replanted tea are higher
than from rehabilitated tea, costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about
77%, since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have
generally increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in imple-
menting the institutional framework for long-term lending, a new venture for
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI).  Because of this, and difficulties in involving
the private estates in the project, disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates. A major review of the project is currently being undertaken by the
Resident Staff in Indonesia. While the project has experienced difficulties,
it is estimated that, because of the project-induced spin-off effects, an
area at least equal in size to the project is being improved. Over 500
farmers' groups have been formed to improve tea production supported by a
project training program presently involvinR nearly 4,000 farmers. These
developments have been helped by a surge in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal
estimates). Considerable investment in factory and field development is
taking place outside the project, largely financed by short- and medium-term
loans from BRI and by privTate investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  ITS$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing I)ate: December 31, 1980.
The rehabililtation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input.  The two PTPs invoLved in the rehabilitation process are both in a
particularly weak financial position, and this problem requires attention.
The Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the
industry, but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480  Fisheries Credit:  US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date:  Januarv 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
After sone initial delavs, the overall project is nowg about
IR monthls behind schedule.  Construction of shore facilities at Anbon is



- 38 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20 pages
virtually completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equip-
ment is on site, ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond
lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind ap-
praisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effective-
ness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fer-
tilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are substan-
tially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence of the
relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous settlers have
already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled area at Way
Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are
not available on site and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash
crops. Experience to date highlights the need for improving project manage-
ment and ensuring that agricultural support services and input supply systems
are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65.0 Mfillion
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
The project's overall physical progress has been generally good but
unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recent:ly, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. Housing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way which
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has recently become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: USS21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: Februarv 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers, the



_ 39                      AKNNEX  I
Page 10 of 20 pages
project ir, about 18 months behina the appraisal implementation estimates.
Design of all civil works has been completed, construction of extension
information centers is progressing well and expected to be completed in FY79,
and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) plans to let
contracts for the remaining civil works shortly. At the present projected
pace of implementation all components, except fellowships, could be completed
by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1267  National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created. Ap-
pointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project director-
ate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional Assistant
Directors.  Civil works have been resumed and, after recent approval of
prefinancing requests for 1977-78, the training program has been started.
Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing difficulties
and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with supporting documen-
tation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for prefinancing
(outlined by the Finance Ministry in October 1978) is expected to help solve
the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978. Despite start-up
difficulties, Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progretssing and preparation for studies is on schedule.
Credit Nc. 827  Rural Credit:  US$3O.G Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallhold-
ers, pririarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical
asslstance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. BRI,
the !Mplementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
pro]ect consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).



- 40 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20 pages
EDUCATION)
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  USS13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory pDersonnel.  About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nation-wide. Despite the remarkable qujantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the
project less effective than it could be. The training program, although on
schedule and making good progress, is out of phase with book production,
which is almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement.
Textbooks and teacher manuals would benefit fromt better design, organization
and illtustrations, and their content is limited by the national curricula.
In response to Bank proposals, the Government has started a major review of
the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook
programs and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869   Polytechnic:  US$49.0 Million Credit of December 29,
1978; Effective Date: May 11, 1479; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new system
(polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by establishing
a Technician Education Development Center and six polvtechnics in Java and
Sunatera, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four Accountancy Development Centers in existing universities. The two
additional conditions for effectiveness: signing of contracts for architec-
tural services and technical assistance have been met. The contract for
technical assistance was signed with the selected technical assistance
organization (Swiss Contact) on April 7, 1979. The Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) has selected three architect firms who will each handle about one
third of the work.  The PTU signed the contracts on M,ay 6, 1979.  The project
was declared effective on May 11, 1979.
Loan No. 1237  Fourth Education:  UJSS37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date:  June 17, 1976: Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Initially, all three subprojects - undler the Mlinistry of Education
(MOF), Ministrv of MTanpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered an eiyht month delav clue to late signing of
the Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UiN Agencies providing technical
assistance, as well as contracts witlh the consultant architects. Further delays
have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts for the
Manpower and LAN components.  Overall, the project is aboout 1-1/2 vears
behind schedule.  About 70%,' of civil works, 4n0  of f urnitu-re, and lnn, of



- 41 -                 ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20 pages
technical assistance have been contracted.. Tmplementation of the technical
assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT Agreements.
Overall, the MIinistry of Education and LAN components are going well, but the
'Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its diverse program of
establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation may require post-
ponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the project closely follows the appraisal sched-
ule. The first and second phases of the program to train 160 Indonesian
educators in ways to improve teacher training and develop new curricula have
been carried out successfully. Curriculum development work is making good
progress, production of learning material is under way, and the research
designs for studies included in the project have been completed. Civil works
are on sctiedule, but equipment procurement is delayed by about nine months.
There are no specific implementation problems at this stage.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education: IUS$15.0 Mtillion Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven Provinces.  General progress in
project implementation is satisfactory.  Renovation of two existing provin-
cial centers was completed on schedule; construction contracts for four new
centers are being awarded, and furniture and equipment is being tendered.
The technical assistance ccomponent is about nine months behind schedule due
to late s:igning of contracts and the November 1978 devaluation; however, the
training aspects of the project are on schedule. Recruitment of foreign
experts and domestic consultants is accelerating satisfactorily; initial
staff training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
being carried out.  It will he another two years before the project can be
expected to make a significant impact on field activities.
ENFRCY
Credit No. 399  West Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1.973; Effective Date: Augpust 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1.980.
Project implementation was initiallv delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet Tnuch higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75.  1However, implementation
is now progressing smoothly.  Both 100 MW,T generating tnits have been syn-
chronized with the grid and are being loaded slowlv.



- 42 -                   ANNEX Ii
Page 13 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1980
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected and there is a good possibility that some of the delays may be
made up. The loan disbursement is proceeding as scheduled in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976; Effective
Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in three lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1
(valued at $13.6 million) has been received; orders for equipment covered by
Lot 2, (amounting to $32.4 million) are now being placed. The project
suffered an initial setback of about one year in procurement action but is
now progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that loan disbursements will
be completed prior to the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1365  Sixth Power:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 KW steam
generating units at Muara Karang, is progressing satisfactorily. Orders for
major electrical and mechanical equipment were placed during the period
December 1977-February 1978. So far progress is on or slightly ahead of
schedule. Currently, estimated commissioning dates for the units are about
four to six months ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power: US$109.0 Mili_ion Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit, including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equip-
ment, electrical equipment and power transformer, were opened on August 21,
1978. Bids have been evaluated and the Bank indicated no objection to the
recommendations for award of contracts on February 6, 1979.



- 43 -                    ANE_X IT
Page 14 of 20 pages
INDUSl'RIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUiSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. Duringt the eight months of operation in 1977, the project
operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to about 92% in
1978 withl the overcoming of initial technical problems. Certain auxiliary
facil_ties, now being installed, are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion: US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 3.1, 1980.
The project (PUSRI !V) was commissioned November 26, 1977, about
four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly 470,000
tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first year
of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded by
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industriai Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Tne estate is progressing satisfactorily.  Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has beern acquired and acqu_sition of
another 31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have been sold
to 99 firms.  Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around
19,000 and an estimated 1,400 persons are employed on the average in both
factory conszruction and land development. Overall, operations are profit-
able.  The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is
significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to
developed land values rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
The project's development has been slower than forecast at appraisal, and the
Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980.



- 44 -                   ANEX II
Page 15 of 29)
Developmenc Finance Companies
Loan No. 1437   LAPINDO III:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many ?roblems, inckuding high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weainesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank mission found
that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the Program and achieved satisfac-
tory progress.
Cre_dr No. 436  Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10.0 Million Loan of MIay 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31. 1983.
This ioan became effective on December 22, 1978, and consultants
are in place.
PCOPLATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300  ?opulation:  US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
-fective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tne Lndonesian nacional family planning program appears to have
slackened somewna..  As of October 31, i978, 30.0% of eligible couples in
Java an". ial- were estimaced to be currently using contraceptives; the
cJ:.parabic,  uroe ror the 10 provinces of the Other Islands covered by
.r-o progr..: _s 8.2%.  These figures as of March 30, 1978, were 30.1% and
9*6OX ras-,e-ive1v. iAowever, during the period covered there have been
some a. drobems with Ga,a co Liection, wnich may be part of the reason for



- 45 -                   ANNEX Ii
Page 16 of 20 pages
the cecline. The report of the consultant engaged to determine the needs for
in-house computer facilities for the National Family Planning Coordination
Board (NFPCB) is now being evaluated. Of the construction component, the
remaining two paramedical training schools are scheduled to be completed by
August 1979. No completion date has yet been estimated for one provincial
office btuilding, which was destroyed by fire in September when it was half
competed.  Other project activities which remain to be completed, including
the fellowship training program and several research studies, will also be
completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded f-or 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979, and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979.  The
Fooe Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center for
Research and Development in Nutrit'on about 63%.  While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit ,o. 451  F,ur:h Technical Assistance:  US$5 Million Credit of
january 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Dare:  December 31, 1979.
?cyg.ess under the project is satisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been cormmittecd,



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra
and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut: lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives,
has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained special-
ized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Wiork on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be used
for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased because of
delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear customs on inter-
island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved. These matters are
being taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started. Some problems
in executing the road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976
and delays were encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a
slower rate of progress than scheduled. The project is about 25% complete.
The delays, combined with slow progress, indicate that the project will
probably be completed about 15-18 months after the Closing Date.



- 47 -                  LME-X --LI
Page 18 of 20 pages
Marine Transloort
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated.  The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start t:o the project ancd slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The acute financial problems of the State Shipping Company (PELNI)
have been tackled by the Government and new management is instituting a
recovery plan. The project entity (PANN) has committed, and the Bank has
approved, $22.3 miilion of subprojects; the Bank has disbursed and made
qualified agreement to reimburse, funds totalling $6.0 million as of
December 31, 1978. The recent change in exchange rate may adversely affect
this project in the future and slow disbursements further. This matter is
under study and being reviewed with the Government.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3. 1977; Closing Date:
December 31. 1979.
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works
has delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made
and these works are scheduled for completion in July 1979. Tne first construc-
tion contract for Basin III back up facilities has been awarded and work is
underway. The regional berths component has been delayed by slow withdrawal
of the Army, which was using the site for storage. However, 90% of the land
has now been released, the old buildirngs are being demolished, and a contract
for tne new works has recently been awarc.ed. These delays will probably
postpone overall completion of the project to mid-1981; it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Government intends
to establish statutory agencies (PERUMS) during 1979 for ports and dredging
functions whicn are current:Ly administered by government departments.
Railways
Loan No. iJ05   kailway:  U'S$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
*une .3. 1979.
ProJecc execution. iS benind schedule due to initial slow procure-
re._ and executionL of worKs.  erocurement is now well under way and all
conzracts nave been placed or are about to be placed. Freight and passenger



- 48 -                  ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20 pages
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However, some
improvements have been made since the first half of 1977 following the
arrival of nu-! locomotives and rolling stock, and operations improved
with the aid of consultants. The financial performance of the railway
continues to deteriorate due mainly to increasing costs, including a large
wage raise in early 1977, to low traffic levels, and to inadequate tariffs
for major freight commodities. The Government is completing the reorganiza-
tion of the railway as a Government Department.  It has indertaken to review
the role of the railway and determine which traffic shoul1 be carried at a
profit and which should be subsidized.
TOURISM'
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in mid-
1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is scheduled
for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project appraisal.
Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8% in 1977 to 286,000
visitors and by a further 11.5% in the first eight months of 1978. Air
access is improving with the introduction of new international flights from
Singapore. At present, three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are under
consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made, changes
in the project description (approved by the Fxecutive Directors last year)
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction may
encourage hotel investment. It is unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua
could be completed in 1980 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure.
TURRAN DEVELOPMF:NT
Loan No. 1040  Jakarta Urban Development:  UTSS25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Pate:  March 31, 1980.
The kampung imDrovenrent part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots were resolved last year.
About 2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are
currently being allocated.



- 49-                    ANNX II
Page 20 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1336 Second Urbani Development: USI52.5 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within appraisal estimates.  Although land acquisition is causing
some delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is
being made in developing Government capabilities to undertake a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
Loan No. 1653 Third Urban Development: US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Not yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The national kampung improvement program has been expanded in this
project to include Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta, as well as follow-
up components in Surabaya and Jakarta. The latter includes a new solid
wastes component, and will stress drainage and maintenance.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay, together with higher rates of
inflation than anticipated, is expected to increase project costs about 30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for major
civil works have been signed.  The project nas reached the construction
phase.  The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water enter-
prises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September i978, the Government
issued anl interministeriai decree defining relationships between the various
hinistrie.s and the Water Enterprises, which is expected to expedite current
and future projects in tha seccor.



- 50 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          Three years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   Provincial Development Planning
Agency (BAPPEDA), Yogyakarta,
with five months consultant as-
sistance.
(c) Date of first mission to consider
project:                                December 1975
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                June 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  May 11, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          October 1979
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
Soon after signature of the Credit Agreement, a supervision mission
would assist the Provincial Government in the initial stages of
implementation of each component.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The establishment of the Project Coordination TJnit and its staffing
by the project coordinator, financial officer and budget officer
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 49).
(b) The Association would make disbursements for each component only
after component managers have been appointed, and,
(i)  for the agricultural and small-scale enterprise components,
after the establishment and staffing of the Technical Develop-
ment Cell and Technical Cell (para. 51); and
(ii)  for the rural health extension, rural water supply, and
community participation activities, after the conclusion of
contracts by the Provincial Health Service and Provincial
Directorate of Rural Development, respectively (para. 51).



- 51 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) The Government would:
(i)  before initiating the additional agricultural program, carry
out an in-depth mid-term review of the project for discussion
with the Association (para. 44);
(ii)  provide staff for key posts by specified dates (para. 51);
and
(iii)  prepare plans and procedures for maintenance of road works and
soil conservation works (para. 51).






IBRD 13978R
000                                                     110111010030                                                                                     INDONESIA   110045                            MAY 1979
Tlh n-ph- been p--red by ho B red ane-k taff tent-,n, -1t1dsn tMI   nt                                                       YOGYAKARTA   RURAL  DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
of the -ede- of th ,p.,o te at,,h to~ .ttache The d---.-aeee ned and the
b-nda-` these -otmI S- ep do net itp/y -n the p-nt Vf Otho Wbed Bank and Itt
-J -'tl  Ipef -ctmoyll6uddcgh beotvdatlheetittgalsitttrtolattft*mtoryor ...  t -PHYSICAL  ACTIVITIES
Vt0       x                              /'      Koling'.ung                                         v,   Agricu tura Technical Development Center
t.    I. n ri   X L           \               \                              r<Kalingiung                                           A     Agriculttura  Techlnicul Develpment Subcenters
V     Pilot Land Rec amatiorn
JA  J,ti                     BANJAR                                      uri                                                                    &Alamz  Soil Conservation Prograns
4AN AR OYr                    \  >         Ti
Poken                                      ~~~~~~~~~Home Garden Improvement
/SarnigalulhO    A/                                                                                                               Tree Crop Forming System  Deve oprnent
,   t'alibawang       S   LMEbM             N                                                                 Mabi Training Units
Artiricial Insemination Sunposts
(  v^   k  (   /  /    /   / t               %     :                                      +    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lvestock Mcalket
7045 'Nng o                                                                Godean                                                                                                                                  74'
Rainwater Catolihnent Tank                    7D451_
Bejiharo iUH      awe
Palbapon         K    EE Pr ygkonarp
j  u   Dsfii BounddrlQs       ;      ; S i   :     -Go ur                            L                                                    e
rLQ    mes:                     :       -  O6; ' ' '                                                                                                      r t -f'f'-' f f 'f f'-f '  d--r'-'f  'f  r '  n - ' -f '      f -'-' ' -'; f fyl
I PR OCEdANosXri
I"ry 0          engaha~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f



