CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 946 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Yogyakarta Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 13, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 946 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and     INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter called  the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ATDC" means the Agricultural Technical Development
Center referred to in Part A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment;
(b) "ATDSC" means the Agricultural Technical Development
Subcenters referred to in Part A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(c) "BAPPEDA" means the Borrower's Provincial Development
Planning Agency for the Special Province of Yogyakarta;
(d) "BRI" means Bank Rakyat Indonesia;
(e) "GK" means Gunung Kidul District of the Special Province
of Yogyakarta;
(f) "KP" means Kulon Progo District of the Special Province
of Yogyakarta;
(g) "PHS" means the Dinas Kesehatan Propinsi (Provincial
Health Service) of the Special Province of Yogyakarta; and


﻿-2-
(h) "TDC" means the Technical Development Cell referred
to in Part A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1989, and ending April 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such


﻿-3-
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing subsection (a)
the Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided, (i) credit
facilities sufficient to meet the additional demand for agricul-
tural credit generated by Project activities, and (ii) credit
facilities through Bank Rakyat Indonesia to meet the additional
demand generated by the Project for loans to small-scale enter-
preneurs.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance ,f, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project


﻿-4-
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall review, in consultation with the
Association, the progress and activities of the Project on or
about December 1, 1981, and shall initiate the additi.onal agricul-
tural program only after such review and consultation has taken
place.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.05. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures described in Categories 5 and 6 of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Associ-'
ation's accredited representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Provincial Bureau of
Finance to: (i) establish a separate account for the purposes of
the Project; (ii) have such account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the said accounts for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement as
to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iv) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning such accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Project Coordination Unit referred
to in Part E of the Project shall have been established and
the project coordinator, project financial officer and project
budgetary officer shall have been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date November 13, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
TFlex:
DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ D. Ashari
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ S. S. Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                    1,700,000       70%
(2) Equipment and                    200,000
goods
(i) imported                                  100% of foreign
directly                                 expenditures
(ii) procured                                  70%
locally
(iii) locally manu-                             100% of local
factured                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Vehicles                         300,000
(i) procured                             40%
locally
(ii) imported                             100% of foreign
directly                            expenditures
under inter-
national
competitive
bidding
(4) Consultancy and                2,000,000       100%
training
(5) Operating costs                5,400,000       70%


﻿-9-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(6) Project Preparation             400,000        70%
and related activities
(7) Unallocated                   2,000,000
TOTAL              12,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) expenditures with respect to the agricultural component
(Part A of Project) until the TDC referred to in Part A.1 (a) of


﻿- 10 -
the Project shall have been established and staffed by an agri-
cultural economist, senior agronomist, land use/soil conservation
specialist and tree crop specialist, one of whom shall have been
appointed component manager;
(c) expenditures with respect to the small-scale enterprise
component (Part B of Project) until the technical cell referred
to in Part B of the Project shall have been established and
staffed by senior specialists, one of whom shall have been
appointed component manager;
(d) expenditures with respect to the rural health component
(Part C.1 of Project) until a contract satisfactory to the
Association shall have been signed between PHS, on behalf of the
Provincial Government, and the Comprehensive Community Health Care
Department of Gadjah Mada University's Faculty of Medicine, to
provide the training staff for Part C.1 of the Project and a
qualified and experienced full-time component manager shall have
been appointed;
(e) expenditures with respect to the rural water supply
component (Part C.2 of Project) until a contract satisfactory to
the Association shall have been signed by PHS, on behalf of the
Provincial Government, for the provision of the services referred
to in Part C.2 of the Project and a qualified and experienced
full-time component manager shall have been appointed;
(f) expenditures with respect to the rural roads component
(Part C.3 of Project) until a qualified and experienced full-time
component manager shall have been appointed in each district;
and
(g) expenditures with respect to the community participa-
tion training component (Part D of Project) until a contract
satisfactory to the Association shall have been signed by the
Directorate of Rural Development in Yogyakarta for the provision
of the services referred to in Part D of the Project and a quali-
fied and experienced full-time component manager shall have
been appointed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all


﻿- 11 -
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount-of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, the first phase of a long-term development
program in the Special Province of Yogyakarta designed to improve
rural living conditions, focuses on Gunung Kidul District (GK) and
Kulon Progo District (KP) and consists of the components listed
below:
A.   Agricultural Development
The agricultural development component consists of a combi-
nation of technical development, including the development and
initial implementation of programs for preservation and optimum
use of existing land resources; improvement of inland fisheries;
and livestock development.
1.   Technical Development: (a) In order to supervise the
implementation of the Project's agricultural activities a Tech-
nical Development Cell (TDC) will be established within the Dinas
Pertanian (Provincial Agriculture Service) in Yogyakarta. The
following qualified and experienced personnel will be employed
for the TDC, and with respect to non-Indonesians whose services
are financed from the proceeds of the Credit, on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association: (i) not
later than November 1, 1979, an agricultural economist, senior
agronomist, land use/soil conservation specialist and tree crops
specialist; and (ii) not later than April 1, 1980, an agronomist,
land use officer, animal husbandry officer and training coordi-
nator/planner. TDC will liase closely with provincial and
national research and development bodies and will prepare, and
assist with the implementation of, annual work programs; and will,
through BAPPEDA (the Provincial Development Planning Agency),
arrange for the allocation and timely release of appropriate
budgets and funds.
(b) The Borrower will establish (including the provision of
buildings, equipment and staff housing for) an Agricultural
Technical Development Center (ATDC) at Nglipar in GK to undertake
technical development and adaptive trials for upland farming. Two
Agricultural Technical Development Sub-centers (ATDSC), in Hargo
Tirto and Banjar Oyo in KP, will be established with functions
similar to those of the ATDC but focusing on specific needs of


﻿- 13 -
those areas. The ATDC and ATDSCs will, no later than January 1,
1980, and throughout the Project, be staffed by two qualified and
experienced (i) agronomists, (ii) land use/soil conservation
specialists, and (iii) tree crops specialists.
(c) Two central nurseries will be established, one at the
ATDC and one at the ATDSC in Hargo Tirto, to provide planting
material for tree-farming improvement. A reforestation and
silvipasture program will be undertaken, including the provi-
sion of credit and a cash subsidy to participating farmers.
(d) Soil conservation practices will be improved through,
inter alia, the provision of terraces, the construction of which
will be carried out by groups of local farmers who will be paid a
wage on the basis of a percentage of the market price of their
labor sufficient to ensure effective participation. As part of the
land development for the first crop after terrace construction,
fertilizers will be provided free of charge. Plans for the main-
tenance of soil conservation works shall be submitted to the
Association for review not later than April 1, 1982.
(e) Adaptive research and technical development of a food
crop program, including field trials, will be carried out at
the ATDC and each ATDSC.
(f) Staff training, design and support for the agricultural
development component will be provided, in relevant parts, among
others, by the Central Research Agricultural Institute in Bogor;
the Research Institutes in Estate Crops, Horticulture, and Animal
Husbandry; the Agency for Agricultural Extension, Training and
Education; the Watershed Management Project in Solo; and the
Gadjah Mada University.
2.   The fisheries portion of this component is designed
to increase the fresh water fish hatchery capacities in GK and
KP, by rehabilitating and expanding two existing hatcheries
and building two new hatcheries (one in Bejiharjo and one in
Sedangsari). The hatchery plans and specifications will be
prepared by the Dinas Perikanan (Provincial Fisheries Service) not
later than October' 1, 1979, and rehabilitation or construction
will not begin until the Directorate General of Fisheries has
approved such plans and specifications. All activities under the
fisheries portion of the Project will be the responsibility of the
Provincial Fisheries Service.


﻿- 14 -
3.   The livestock portion of this component will aid in
(a) improving genetic quality of beef cattle through artificial
insemination; (b) modernizing the facilities at Siyono cattle
market; and (c) controlling diseases and parasites. The plans and
specifications for modernizing the cattle market will be prepared
by the Dinas Peternakan (Provincial Livestock Service) not later
than October 1, 1979, and such modernization will not begin until
the Directorate General of Animal Husbandry has approved such
plans and specifications.
B.   Small-Scale Enterprise Development
In order to formulate recommendations for development of
small-scale enterprises the Borrower will form a technical cell
which will be responsible for establishing an information base.
The technical cell will be composed of three qualified and
experienced senior specialists (an industrial economist, business
management specialist and a technical officer), and six field
staff. The specialists, staff and a small-scale enterprise deve-
lopment advisor shall be employed no later than February 1, 1980.
A Small-Scale Enterprise Promotion Committee will coordinate the
work of the participating parties and agencies.
C.   Social Services Support and Rural Roads
The social services component will assist in improving
and providing a low-cost preventive health system, and improving
rural water supply. The rural roads component will strengthen
district capabilities in low-cost village road construction.
i.   The Provincial Health Service (PHS) will provide
comprehensive training in health and nutrition to approximately
3,200 kaders (volunteer health workers) and to approximately
1,500 teachers. The training programs will be supported by
the provision of basic medicines and medical kits, teaching
aids, equipment and vehicles. PHS will designate no later than
October 1, 1979, the following qualified and experienced person-
nel: a component manager and three part-time assistant component
managers (one for the Kader program, one for School Health and one
for Water Supplies). PHS will be responsible for implementation
of the health portion of the Project.
2.   Accessible and safe drinking water will be provided
to about 75,000 people in southern GK by construction of rainwater
catchment tanks. On or before September 1, 1979, the Borrower


﻿- 15 -
will furnish the Association with a list of criteria to be used
in selecting sites for installation of the water tanks, and
will also furnish a work plan for the first year of operation.
This portion of the Project will be executed by an appropriate
organization under contract to PHS. Under the contract a qualified
and experienced coordinator and six qualified and experienced
senior technicians will be employed by October 1, 1979.
3.   District capabilities in road construction and main-
tenance will be strengthened, and low-cost village road con-
struction designs and techniques will be demonstrated, emphasizing
labor intensive methods. Overall management of this portion of
the Project will be with each District's Head of Public Works.
The Public Works Service in each District, in consultation with
villagers, will select roads to be improved, schedule work to be
done, and will formulate a long-term village road maintenance
plan. By April 1, 1982, this long-term plan will be submitted to
the Association for review.
D.   Community Participation Training
The community participation training component assists in
strengthening the Borrower's capabilities in training staff on how
to elicit farmer involvement and ensuring that the communities
affected by the Project participate in Project decision-making.
Training, follow-up and technical assistance will be provided by
an appropriate organization under contract with the Directorate
of Rural Development in Yogyakarta. In addition a fund for com-
munity mini-projects as identified by Directorate Pembangunan
Desa (Directorate of Rural Development) will be set up to encou-
rage hamlet involvement in development activities. The fund will
be established and administered, and expenditures made, pursuant
to policies and procedures formulated by the Directorate. Such
policies and procedures will be submitted to the Association for
review.
E.   Project Organization Coordination and Evaluation
1.   Responsibility for overall project management and
implementation guidance will rest with the Governor who will be
assisted by BAPPEDA, the relevant Bupatis and the heads of the
participating agencies. BAPPEDA, on behalf of the Governor, shall,
by January 1 of each year, send to the Association for review
copies of the approved annual work programs for the coming year.


﻿- 16 -
In order to strengthen BAPPEDA's capabilities in project manage-
ment, organization and evaluation, BAPPEDA will establish a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in its Evaluation and Coordination
Division. The head of this Division will be the Project Coordi-
nator. BAPPEDA will employ the following qualified and experienced
staff for the PCU: (a) a project coordinator, a project financial
officer and a project budget officer; (b) not later than Janu-
ary 1, 1980, a project monitoring officer, a project evaluation
officer, a procurement/disbursement officer, and two bookkeepers;
and (c) not later than July 1, 1981, a project planning officer.
BAPPEDA will be responsible for overall project coordina-
tion and for ensuring participation of the managers of each
Project component or sub-component in the coordination process.
For these purposes, such managers will meet at least quarterly
with the Chairman of BAPPEDA, the relevant Bupatis and the head of
the PCU to review and discuss implementation matters.
2.   A fund will be established to assist in preparing
follow-up projects and to assist in solving specific problems of
Project implementation, such as financing services relating to
technical assistance, training and technical innovations. The
Borrower will submit detailed proposals for the use of this fund
to the Association for approval. Any expenditures from this fund
in excess of $15,000 equivalent will only be made after prior
consultation with, and approval of the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 1, 1986.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare anA forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
4.   Contracts for vehi-les and equipment and goods shall be
grouped in packages of $100,000 equivalent or more so as to
encourage competition and to permit bulk procurement consistent
with appropriate technical and procurement practices.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be grouped so as to encourage
competition and shall be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally.
2.   Contracts for equipment and goods which cannot be grouped to
form packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more may be
awarded on the basis of the Borrower's normal procedures; provided
that the aggregate amount of such contracts shall not exceed
$500,000 equivalent.
3.   Contracts for not more than eight vehicles for start-up
purposes may be awarded on the basis of the Borrower's normal
procedures.
4.   Construction of rural roads may be carried out by force
account.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Indonesia if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Association that Lhe manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in the
Republic of Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 19 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for vehicles and equipment
and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
and all contracts for studies and innovations estimated to cost
the equivalent of $15,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably


﻿- 20 -
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or


﻿- 21 -
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


