FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No.  283a-TA
APPRAISAL OF
THE TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
January 14, 1974
Development Finance Companies Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CIMRUCY EQTTIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling (Tsh)
S$ 1          -Th 6.90
Tsh 1         = -  S$ 0.145
FISCAL YEFR
July 1 - June 30



TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Table of Contents
Page No.
i     BASIC DATA                                   ..............       i
I.    INTRODUCTION o........................  1
II.    ENVIRONMENT         .......... . . . ... ..... .     .... . o..    .  1
The Manufacturing Sector.                                      1
Government Industrial Policy..........                         2
Institutions Involved in Industrial Management
and Investment..                                             3
Institutions for Financing of Industryu... ..........5
National Investment Targets..................                  6
sIII.    THE INSTITIJ'rION ............................ oo.....*            6
Charter,.*.*....  .............  ....,,,  , .......    .       6
1policies ......o....... , .........,  ...                     8
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk         s .           8
Umbrella Agreement ..................8
IV.    ORGANIZATION, STAFFING AND PROCEDURES ........... o........       8
Board .........  .                                             8
Ma nagementr.... *9 ...................... *..-  ......        9
Organization and Staffing. ............. ...........  . ..     9
Procedures.....o........ ............   11
V.    RESOURCES, OPERATIONS, PORTFOLIO AND FINANCIAL CONDITION    11
Resourcea s........ .*.*......*...** ... 0 .............      11
Opertiosoi.....                                               12
NBC Portfolio ..................... o ..                      12
Financial Reesults.......... ..... ......O..*... -...         13
Financial Position ...............  .3 ......... .            13
VI.    PROSPECTS eee..ee ..... .... o.*....o........ o...............   14
TIB's Projections ... ....*.....      $...0........ ..O*............... 14
Foreign Resources ........       ...... ......... ........    14
Domestic Resources ..... .  .       ...... .. ............    15
Projected Income and Profiiability          .     .......     16
Projected Balance Sheets..              ........... ... ..    16
VII.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS..o   ........ .......            16
This report was prepared by Messrs. Andre Nespoulous-Neuville and Pieter
Bulters on the basis of their mission to Tanzania in May 1973,






LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   TIBts Investment and Financial Policies
2.  Board of Directors
3.  Organization Chart
4.   Schedule of Foreign Resources as of June 30, 1973
5.   Summary of Operations 1971-1973
6.   List of Loans Approved as of June 30, 1973
7.   Analysis of Loans Approved as of June 30, 1973
8.   List of Equity Investments Approved as of June 30, 1973
9.   Analysis of NBC Portfolio
10.   Income Statements 1971-1973
11.   Balance Sheets 1971-1973
12.   Operational and Financial Forecasts (1974-1978)
12-1.   Projection Assumptions
12-2.   Forecast of Operations 1974-1978
12-3.   Projected Income Statements 1974-1978
12-4.   Projected Balance Sheets 1974-1978
12-5.   Projected Cash Flow Statements 1974-1978
13.   List of Selected Projects Requiring TIB Financing
14.   Actual and Projected Financial Ratios 1971-1978
15.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Credit






- i -
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
BASIC DATA
Exchange Rate:  US$1 = Tsh 6.9
Date of Establishment: November 1970
Ownership (as of June 30, 1273): (Tsh million)
Amount     Percentage
Government of Tanzania                 30           60
National Bank of Commerce              15            30
National Insurance Corporation          5           10
50          100
Resources Position (as of June 30, 1973):
Domestic Currency   Foreign Currency
Amounts in Tsh million
Equity                  1/              53.2
Foreign lines of credit-,                 -                 76.6
Total resources                         53.2               77.7
Net fixed assets                         1.5
Loans outstanding                        6.9                11.1
Equity investments                       1.2                  .6
Undisbursed loan commitmont             11.4                19.7
Undisbursed equity commitment             -                  1.9
Total commitments                       21.0                33.3
Resources available for commitment    32.2                  4,.3
TJncommitted approvals                  12.7                31.4
1/ cxcludes tied and partly-tied foreign credits unless allocated to
approved projects.



Approvals (Tsh million):
/1
Year ending June 30                1971         1972       1973
Loans                             7.5         34.6       52.9
Equity investments                 -           1.2        3.4
7.5        35.8        56.3
Commitments (Tsh million):
Loans                              -          16.6       33.3
Equity investments                 -           1.0        1.7
-         17.6       35.0
Disbursements (Tsh million):
Loans                              -          9.1         9.6
Equity investments                 -           1.0        0.8
-         10.1       10.4
Operating Results (Tsh '000)
Profit before taxes              1,385      2,083       1,893
Profit after taxes                 839      1,223       1,136
Profit after taxes as percentage  2.7         2.4        2.2
of average net worth
(annual basis)
Financial Position (Tsh million):
Net worth                         50.8       52.0        53.2
Total assets                     145.4      134.4       129.0
Debt/equity ratio                1.9:1       1.6:1      1.4:1
Interest fates and Other Charges
Interest rates on loans:   Normally 8-1/2%;  maximum 9-1/2%;
the lowest rate charged on any loan to date
is 7%.
Commitment charges      :  1%
Guarantee fee           :  1/2% - 2-1/2%
/1 7-1/2 months only



- iii -
SUMMARY
i.        The Government established the Tanzanian Investment Bank (TIB)
in 1970 to finance public and private productive enterprises. TIB's
operations have increased rapidly and TIB is now the major medium and
long term financing institution in Tanzania.
ii.       * -The manufacturing sector still accounts for only 10% of GNP but
is increasing in importance. Most of the industrial capacity and new
industrial investments are in the public sector and TIB has extended its
assistance mainly to parastatal enterprises.
iii.      Most of TIB's assistance is in the form of loans but the Associa-
tion has recommended that TIB should be allowed to invest more in equity
investments. The Government and TIB have agreed that they will seek an in-
crease in the limit on TIB's total equity investments, which is 10% of TIB's
net worth at present. Besides TIB, two other institutions provide medium-
and long-term financing for productive enterprises in Tanzania. The East
African Development Bank (EADB), which has a World Bank loan, can lend 38.75%
of its funds to industrial projects in Tanzania, buit is excluded by its
charter from financing tourism, transportation and commercial agriculture.
The Tanganyika Development Finance Company (TDFL), which is owned in equal
parts by TIB and three foreign agencies, has been active in project promo-
tion as well as financing. In the past TDFL has limited its activities to
private projects but in the future it can and will also finance parastatal
projects. The Government restricted TDFL recently to the financing of
projects with total assets of less than Tsh 4 million.
iv.       TIB's Board, which is nominated entirely by the Government,
includes many high ranking Government officials. TIB's Chairman and Man-
aging Director is the Chief Execuitive. TIB has a good staff at present and
TIB's appraisals are comprehensive. The quality of TIB's future staff will
depend to a large extent on the way TIB will replace the senior staff
leaving during the next half year. Adequate replacement of the Director of Opera-
tions is especially important. TIB has organized training programs for its
Tanzanian staff. They have good potential and as they gain experience they
should provide a good base for the future.  For some time TIB must continue
to rely on expatriate assistance. TIB's staff is large and should, as they
gain experience, be able to handle an increase in operations.
V.        TIB's approvals have increased to Tsh 56 million ($8 million) in
the year ended June 30, 1973, bringing total approvals since inception to
Tsh 99 million. As of June 30, 1973, disbursements totalled Tsh 20 million
and repayments had started on only a few projects. It is thus too early
to make post facto judgements on the quality of its portfolio.



- iv -
vi.       TIB's profits have been modest which is normal for a new insti-
tution. TIB derives most of its income from the term loan portfolio that
the National Bank of Commerce transferred to TIB shortly after TIB's
establishment. TIB's financial condition is sound. Projections indi-
cate that TIB's profits will remain modest.
vii.      TIB has obtained foreign resources, including untied foreign funds,
from several sources. An IDA credit of $6 million is expected to cover TIB's
foreign exchange gap through June 1976.
viii.     The Government will on-lend the proposed credit to TIB on terms
normally applied to development finance campanies. During negotiations, TIB
agreed to increase its minimum lending rate to 9% for TIB's ordinary opera-
tions. An appropriate free limit would be $100,000 with an aggregate free
limit of $1 million.



I. INTRODTJCTION
1.01      The Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) was established in November
1970. The Government holds, directly and indirectly, the entire share
capital of Tsh 50 million. The Tanzanian Government requested Bank
Group assistance for TIB soon after its establishment. A mission which
visited TIB in December 1971 made a number of recommendations to improve
TIB's organization and operations but concluded that TIB did not need
additional resources at that time. After a short updating visit in
February 1973, the Bank concluded that TIB needed additional foreign
resources and sent an appraisal mission in May 1973; this report is based
on its findings.
II.  ENVIRONKENT
The Manufacturing Sector
2.01      The manufacturing sector still accounts for only 10% of GDP but
is increasing in importance. Industrial output increased by only 8% per
annum during 1968-1970, but will probably grow more rapidly in the future
because of increased investments in the recent past. Industrial invest-
ments increased from Tsh 150 million (15% of total investments) in 1966
to Tsh 314 million (18% of total investments) in 1970, an average growth
rate of 20% per annum.
2.02      Following the Arusha Declaration, the Government nationalized a
great number of industrial enterprises. Most industrial capacity is now
in the public sector, but the contribution of private firms remains sig-
nificant. Accurate figures are not available, but according to rough
estimates,the private sector still accounts for one third of industrial
investment and output. The Dividends and Surpluses Act (see para. 2.10)
has probably given a new impetus to investments by existing private enter-
prises but will tend to discourage new foreign investors.
2.03      Although many of the nationalized enterprises have retained for-
mer management, several companies experienced financial difficulties. For
instance, in 1971, 15 of the 33 subsidiary and associated companies of the
National Development Corporation, whose subsidiaries dominate the industrial
sector (see para. 2.12),incurred losses and several others made only marginal
profits. However, most of the larger ones made substantial profits (see
para. 2.0h). Many industries suffered from disruptions in their markets or
in the supply of raw materials and spare parts, due to import difficulties.
Some of these disruptions have been attributed to operational problems within
the State Trading Corporation (STC) which is directly responsible for a large
portion of commodity imports and wholesale trade, and until 1972 was in
charge of licensing private imports. Most of these problems are gradually
being resolved, and the recent specialization and decentralization of STC
and other state trading organizations should improve the efficiency of the
trade sector.



- 2 -
T }  he manufacturing sector is dominated by a few large firms.  In
1971, more than two-thirds of the total assets of NDC's subsidiary and
associated companies in this sector belonged to only seven firms: a
fertilizer plant, two textile factories, a tyre factory, a cement factory,
a cigarette factory and a brewery. These large firms are quite capital
intensive. Most of them are well organized and profitable, and several
export part of their production.
2.05      About 5% of manufactured goods produced in Tanzania are exported
and about 60% of these exports go to the two other countries of the East
African Community. Major exports are cotton textiles, aluminum products,
radio receivers, steel tubes and pipes, wood manufactures, ready-made
clothing and dry-cell batteries.
2.06      Tanzania has already exhausted most of the easy investment oppor-
tunities, such as those for import substitution. About three-fifths of
all consumer demand for manufactured goods is now met by goods made in
Tanzania as opposed to about one-fifth at independence (1961).
2.07      Manufacturing activity in Tanzania is concentrated in the north-
eastern seaboard, consisting of the Dar es Salaam and Tanga regions, in
the north of the country around Arusha and Moshi, and on the shore of
Lake Victoria. Dar es Salaam is by far the most important manufacturing
center.
Government Industrial Policy
2.08      The Arusha Declaration rejected undue reliance on large-scale
industrialization as a major answer to the problem of underdevelopment.
The 1973-74 development budget reflects the intended emphasis on promo-
tion of small industries, agriculture and rural development. Most indus-
trial projects provided for in the 1973-74 budget are either ongoing pro-
jects or relatively small projects. However, at the East African Con-
sultative Group for Tanzaria last January, the Tanzania Government emphasized
that it did not see rural and industrial development as alternative
priorities but as integrally-related parts of the development process and
thus TIB continues to have an important role and strong government backing.
2.09      As a consequence of the overall policy to stimulate public sector
investments, governmental encouragement to private foreign investors is
limited. There are, however, a number of incentives to industrial in-
vestment, such as an investment credit of 20%, allowing 120% depreciation
on investments, the rebate of sales tax paid on exported goods, refunds
or remission of duties on imported goods, and protection.  Protection
re,sults from the East African Community's external tariff which can be
complemented by transfer taxes on imports from the Partner States, import



-3 -
licensing and moratoria on licensing competitive production.  Due to foreign
exchange constraints, the Central Bank has, for most goods which are pro-
duiced in Tanzania, refused import licenses which has, therefore, become an
effective means of protection.
2.10      An Act of August 18, 1972, gives the Minister of Finance the
power to control the distribution of profits and the use of cash flow
surpluses of a number of specified companies and statutory corporations.
The Act limits the dividends of these companies and corporations, and
transfers abroad of profits made locally, according to some automatic
rules, and gives discretionary powers to the Minister of Finance to im-
pose further limitations or to impose minimum dividends. The Act also
gives the Minister of Finance discretionary powers to require the speci-
fied companies or corporations to invest in Government securities or in
other investments a certain part of their forecast liquid assets during
each fiscal year. It is not yet known how the Act will be applied. It
will probably tend to increase investments by existing private companies
in expansion projects, but to discourage new foreign investors. A new
system is being developed for the pooling and distribution of surpluses
generated by State enterprises. No details on this plan are yet available.
2.11      The Government's strategy for industrial development during
the next five to ten years aims at maximizing local processing of agri-
cultural products for both export and domestic consumption. Substantial
additional investment is envisaged for textile and garment industries,
tanneries, a shoe factory (processing both leather and canvas), breweries,
cashew processing, wood processing, rope and twine factories, fish pro-
cessing, etc. It is also the Government's intention to promote small
village industries wherever this is practicable. An ambitious nationwide
industrial extension service is being established with a view to assist
in the planning and management of small industries. Many of these are
expected to be cottage industries, processing or milling units, and work-
shops manufacturing furniture, other household goods and simple agricultural
implements. To set industrial priorities in the next five-year plan and
to reduce the reliance on protection, a team of the Harvard Advisory
Services is now studying in which industries Tanzania would have a com-
parative advantage. The Bank has scheduled an industrial sector mission
in early 1974.
Institutions Involved in Industrial Management and Investment
2.12      In 1965, the Government established the National Development
Corporation (NDC) to promote and implement public investments in industry,
agricultural processing and tourim.  Following the Arusha Declaration,
all nationalized industrial enterprises were transferred to the National



- 4 -
Oevelopment Corporation (NDC).  In 1970 and 1971  the Goverment trans-
ferred agricultural processing industries, tourism projects and woodwork-
n- indust-ries to three newly established parastatal holding companies,
namely, the National Agricultu-re and Food Corporation (NAFCO), the Tan-
zania Tourismm Corporation (TTC) and the Tanzania Woodworking Industries
Compa,iy (ThICO). Each parastatal is responsible to a Government ministry,
NDC being under the control of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
NAFCO under the Ministry of Agriculture, and TTC and TWICO under the Min-
istry of Natural Resources and Tourism. The main functions of each of
these organizations are the management of existing enterprises and the
promotion and implementation of new projects.  A shortage of internally
generated funds has made them critically dependent on budget allocations
for equity investments in new projects. Their implementation of new pro-
jects also suffers from a shortage of qualified people to study, implement
and manage projects.
2.13      The Industrial Development Center (Indcenter) is a TJNIDO-spon-
sored institution to promote private and public inuistries.  It started
operations in 1966 and is now staffed by five UNIDO experts and five
Tanzanians.  Indcenter mainly makes feasibility studies but can also advise
on project implementation and management. It has mainly served the private
sector. It has had little success in getting projects implemented and
during the last two years it was responsible for helping start only two
rather small private projects.
2.1.      All projects, private or public, must he approved by the Govern-
ment.  Parastatals must submit their entire annual investment plan to the
relevant ministry. After scrutiny by the ministry, an interministerial
conumittee, on which the relevant ministry, the Ministry of Economic Devel-
opment and Planning, and the Treasury are represented, reviewsthe program
and submit it in its final form to the Economic Committee of the Cabinet.
Projects for which the parastatals seek equity funds during the budget
period must be approved on an individual basis by the same authorities.
None of the entities involved at this stage, including the relevarit min-
istry, has a proper project evaluation unit and the basis on which projects
are approved is unclear.  The Government recognizes this lack of exper-
tise and lately TIB has been invited to participate in the discussions of
the interminiFterial committee.  So far, TI3 has been familiar with only
a few of the projects discussed and has acted merely as an observer to
learn about forthcoming projects. The Government intends to involve TIB
earlier and to rely more on its judgment before approving projects.
2.15      Foreign investors can apply to the Tanzanian Investment Promo-
tion Comittee (TIPCO) for fiscal incentives, such as duty exemptions
and protection, and a guarantee against expropriation. TIPCO is an inter-
ministerial committee which is dominated by the Treasury and the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry. It has only a mnall staff and depends heavily
on Indoenter for technical assistance.



- 5 -
2.16      Most parastatal enterprises still rely heavily on foreign tech-
nical and managerial personnel especially after last year's decentraliza-
tion of Government which reduced, at least temporarily, the administrative
capacity at the center. To reduce the need for costly expatriate assist-
ance, the Government has intensified its efforts to train Tanzanians at
home and abroad. The Institute for Finance Management (IFM) was estab-
lished in July 1972 and has already undertaken a variety of urgently
needed training programs including, at the request of NDC, an accelerated
training program for managers of all the parastatal institutions.
Institutions for Financing of Industry
2.17      Following the Arusha Declaration, the Government nationalized
all commercial banks and merged them into a single bank, the National
Bank of Commerce (NBC). In 1969, NBC set up a special department for
medium- and long-term lending. At the creation of TIB, NBC discontinued
its term lending and transferred its entire term loan portfolio to TIB
(see para. 5.o6). NBC is the only institutional source of short-term
credit. Its interest rates vary between 634 and 10%. Most overdrafts
are at 81V; lower rates apply to exporting industries (734) and small
industries (6W).
2.18      The Tanganyika Development Company Limited (TDFL) was established
in 1962. Its capital of Tsh 40 million is equally owned by TIB, the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) from the TJnited Kingdom, the
Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit (DEG) from Ger-
many and the Nederlandse Financierings Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelings-
landen (FMO) from the Netherlands. Like TIB, TDFL provides loans and
equiity for projects in industry, commercial agriculture and tourism. It
has been active in project promotion and, while it normally is a minority
partner, in a few cases it is the majority owner. Recently, TDFL changed
its policy of only financing private enterprise and now also finances
publicly-owned projects. The Government has now limited TDFL' s activities
to projects with total assets of less than Tsh 4 million. TDFL's opera-
tions amount to about Tsh 10 million per year. It usually charges an
interest rate of 9% on its loans.
2.19      Industrial investments can also be financed by the East African
Development Bank (EADB) which was created in 1967, and has a loan from
the World Bank. FADB's main objective is to correct industrial imbalances
between the three countries of the East African Community, and its charter
requires it to make 38.75% of its investments each in Uganda and Tanzania
and only 22.5% in Kenya. EADB's charter excludes it from financing tour-
ism, transportation and commercial agriculture. In Tanzania, EADB has
normally financed projects jointly with TIB. Approvals for projects in
Tanzania, amounting to Tsh 40 million in 1972, have been inhibited to
some extent by the shortage of equity funds in the parastatal sector.
EADB's interest rate is 9%.



2.20      In view of the availability of foreign resources to TIB, the
Government recently directed that no new suppliers' credits for industry
be approved unless TIB cannot finance the project. This will probably
considerably reduce suppliers' credits and increase the use of foreign
aid funds, which are normally on much softer terms. This development
will further enhance TIB's role.
National Investment Targets
2.21      Tanzania's objective is to raise the investment ratio during the
Second Plan period (1970-1974) to about 28% of monetary GDP, which implies
a 10% annual growth rate of investment. The overall investment planned
for this period was Tsh 8,0o5 million ($1,151 million). Although the
target investment ratio will probably not be realized in the Second Plan
period, the percentage has already risen to about 25%, compared with 14.5%
at the beginning of the first Five Year Development Plan (the figures
exclude the TanZam railway). Parastatals are rapidly becoming the major
vehicle for public-sector investment, as intended. They increased their
share in gross fixed capital formation from about 12% in 1966 to nearly
50% in 1971. The share of Central Government ministries, by contrast,
is falling, which is also by design. Private investment was expected to
contribute about 27% of the total during the Second Plan. Although after
several years of decline and stagnation private investment appears to
have risen recently, the targeted figure will probably not be achieved.
III. THE INSTITUTION
Charter
3.01      The Government established TIB in 1970 for the financing of
industrial, agricultural processing, tourism and transportation projects
in the private and public sectors. TIB's authorized share capital is
Tsh 100 million of which Tsh 50 million is paid-in.  According to TIB's
Act, the Goverrment owns 60% of the share capital directly, 30% through
the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) and 10% through the Government-owned
National Insurance Corporation (NIC). The Chairman of TIB's Board is
appolnted by the President of Tanzania. Of the six members, three are
appointed by the Minrister of Finance and the other three by the two
minority shareholders.
3.02      TIB can make loans, provide guarantees and invest up to 10% of
its own net worth in equity, provided it does not take a controlling
interest in any of its clients. The severe restriction on TIB's total
equity investments reflects the Government's conception of the respective
roles of the parastatal organizations and TIB in which the parastatal



- 7 -
organizations have the primary role in promoting and managing investments
through equity financing, while TIB is expected to provide an indepen-
dent check on these investments through loan financing. In practice, the
parastatals depend largely on the Government for their equity investments.
The Government usually approves an equity investment before a request for
loan financing is submitted to TIB, which severely limits TIB's ability
to modify decisions or to turn down the project. If TIB had more leeway
in its equity investments, it would be involved earlier in projects and
likely to perform its role better. During negotiations the Tanzanian
delegation recognized the desirability of raising the limit on TIB's equity
investments substantially above the present limit of 10% of TIB's net worth.
The limit is to be increased in the near future.
3.03      TIB's Act permits it to promote projects and TIB recently decided
to become more active in this field. The exact nature of TIB's promotional
activities is not yet clear. Initially TIB will limit itself to preparing
sector and regional studies and assisting parastatals to find appropriate
resources by involving itself at an early stage of project preparation.
Since the Act prevents TIB from taking a controlling interest in its clients,
TIB will not be able to implement projects on its own and will need to work
Jointly with parastatal organizations or private sponsors. The success of
TIB's project promotion will, therefore, to a great extent depend on the
readiness and capacity of the parastatals to implement projects promoted by
TIB.
3.o4      The Act requires that TIB follow sound banking principles, and
that all projects financed must be technically feasible and economically
sound. While most of the projects financed by TIB meet these criteria,
there have been a few cases, such as a large fireboard project, in which the
Government made TIB finance, at TIB's risk, projects of questionable fin-
ancial merit. There may again be projects that TIB, after thorough analysis,
does not judge viable but that the Government strongly wants to implement
for social reasons. The Government can take the risk for such projects by
providing Special Funds.  TIB's Act distinguishes "Special Funds" (to finance
special operations) from "ordinary resources" (to finance ordinary operations).
Because TIB cannot use its ordinary resources (which include its entire equity)
to cover losses on special operations. Special Funds are in essence managed
funds at the risk of the entity that provides them. TIB has agreed to fin-
ance from its ordinary resources only financially viable projects and to
state this explicitly in its policies (see paragraph 3.06).
3.05      TIB intends to establish a Special Fund for small scale industry
financing. The Government will guarantee the entire program because of the
risk involved in this type of operations but expects TIB to finance only
projects that are judged to be sound. Although TIB bears no risk on opera-
tions financed from Special Funds, such operations are not necessarily fin-
ancially unviable, but rather do not meet the tests and conditions normally
applied by TIB. TIB can use Special Funds, for instance, to lend at lower
interest rates for special projects (TIB's interest rate limits only apply
to ordinary operations), or to finance non-revenue-producing projects, such
as feasibility studies and other technical assistance arrangements.



-8-
Policies
3.06      TIB's investment and financial policies are set forth in the "TIB
Handbook" which replaces TIB's original statement of General Policies and
subsequently adopted policies. Annex 1 shows the relevant chapter of the
Handbook including amendments which were agreed upon during negotiations and
which have been approved by TIB's Board. TIB can make or guarantee medium-
and long-term loans and invest in equity but will not seek a controlling
interest through its equity investments.  For ordinary operations, TIB's con-
tribultion to an individual enterprise shall not exceed 75% of the enterprise's
total fixed assets and will normally be less than 60% of total fixed assets.
TIB's total investment in anv enterprise is limited to 20% of its own net
worth.  During negotiations TIB agreed to limit its own debt to three timeq
its net worth.
Interest Rates and foreign exchange risk
3.07      In the past, TIB had a variable lending rate with a normal rate of
81A and a minimum of 6Ω%. During negotiations, TIB agreed to apply in the
future a minimum normal interest rate of 9% to its ordinary operations. TIB's
new interest rate is in line with the interest rates charged by other fin-
ancial institutions in Tanzania and reflects the cost of capital in Tanzania.
The interest rate restriction does not apply to TIB's special operations. TIB
cannot assume the foreign exchange risk on foreign borrowings. If the risk
is not borne by the Government, TIB passes it on to its subborrowers. This
will be done with the risk on the'lcan from the African Development Bank and
the proposed IDA credit.
Umbrella Agreement
3.08      The Government and TIB have entered into an Umbrella Agreement for
the transfer of most foreign credits to TIB. The Umbrella Agreement will not
apply to the proposed IDA credit, which will be passed on to TIB through a
separate subsidiary loan agreement. The Umbrella Agreement allocates foreign
credits to ordinary resources (by putting them in Schedule 1 of the Agreement)
or Special Funds (by put t-in  them in Schedule 2 of the Agreement) before the
projects for which the funis 'll 'e used are known.  However, foreign credits
can be reallocated, if necessary in view of the financial characteristics of
a given project.
IV.  OèR,alZAfI'1N  STAFF7NG AND ?RG,SDURES
Board
4.01      The Board is chaired by the Managing Director.  Board members
include the Principal Secretaries of the Ministries of Finance, Economic
Affairs and Development Planning, and Commerce and Industry,   the Chair-
man of the National Bank of Comierce and the General Manager of NIC
(Annex 2 is a list of TIB's present Board members). The Board must approve
all loans and investments and meets at least once every three months. Deci-
sions are made by a majority vote with at least four Board members present.



-9-
Management
4.02      TIB's management consists of a full-time Managing Director and
a General Manager. The Managing Director is Mr. G. Mbowe, 37, who joined
TIB last year directly from the Treasury. He succeeded the Principal
Secretary of the Treasury as Chairman and Managing Director. In the past,
Mr. Mbowe has been Assistant Director of Indcenter and Commissioner for
National Industries and Power. The General Manager is Mr. Kahangi, 36,
who is a former Executive Director of the World Bank.
4.03      The General Manager, together with the department heads, form
a loan committee which must approve all loan and investment proposals
before presentation to the Board. The committee can also make recommen-
dations to the Board regarding policy matters, must approve all appoint-
ments of staff up to the level of junior professionals and reviews the
annual budget before presentation to the Board.
Organization and Staffing
4.04      Annex 3 shows TIB's organization chart including the number of
staff in each department. TIB has found it difficult to acquire experienced
local staff and thus employs nine expatriates (two will leave shortly). It
has requested six more from the following sources:
Industrial or chemical engineer    Germany
Industrial engineer                 Commonwealth Secretariat
Industrial economist                Canada or Commonwealth
Secretariat
Agricultural economist              Canada or Commonwealth
Secretariat
Director of Operations              Sweden
Financial analyst for
Operations Department             Sweden
TIB'q professional Tanzanian staff numbers 22, including four who are
studying abroad. Most of the Tanzanian staff joined TIB directly from
university after March 1972. They represent a good nucleus for TIB's
needs, they have benefitted from a training program by a Canadian con-
sultant and now need experience through training and close working associa-
tion with experienced experts.



- 10 -
4.05       e  current Director of the Operations Department will
- lea ing TIB shortly.  Sweden has agreed to provide a successor.
The staff of the department further include a Swedish consul-
a  igo slav expert (provided by TJNIDO) and a Finnish engineer.  TIB
intends to strengthen the department further with several new expatriates.
4.06      TIB's appraisals are comprehensive and usually include an economic
rate of return calculation in addition to a qualitative assessment of the
economic benefits. TIB needs to improve follow-up, however. Consultants
have prepared a follow-up manual and procedures now need to be implemented
systematically. Quarterly progress reports on TIB's portfolio provide
little information and do not indicate enough how problem projects could be
improved.  Comparisons between expected and actual performance of TIB's
clients are often incomplete. These matters have been discussed with the
company and it intends to initiate periodic comprehensive follow-up reports
of each project and monitor their performance regularly to discover problems
as soon as they arise.
4.07      Planning and Development Department.  The head of this
department attended EDI's industrial projects course last year.  The staff
consists of three Tanzanians and two expatriates to which TIB intends to
add a few new expatriates. The Department has been reorganized recently
and is now responsible for TIB's promotional activities and the economic
work related to projects. So far, the Department has primarily made sector
studies, provided support to the Operations Department for market analysis
and compiled statistical data. The extent of TIB's involvement in actual
project identification and promotion will largely depend on the future
staffing of the Department.
.U.08     Finance.  The Finance Department is headed by an expert seconded
by the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). His
term expires in May 197h. TIB is looking for a financial analyst who couild
eventually replace him. The Department employs five Tanzanian professionals.
It prepares TIB's financial statements, budget and financial forecasts and
administers TIB's short-term investments and equity participations. It is
also responsible for disbursements (after approval by the Operations Department)
and collections on loans, and resources planning.
4.09      The Administration Department is headed by a 33-year old Tanza-
nian lawyer.  The Department is responsible for TIB's legal affairs, the
Board Secretariat, personnel administration and general services. Admin-
istration of legal matters is often delayed, because TIB depends on a
lawyer of the Tanzanian Legal Corporation who can only spend part of his
time on TIB's affairs. The Department Head, who presently does some of the
legal work himself, intends to leave TIB early in 1974 and a replacement is
being sought,



- 11 -
Procedures
4.10      Audit.  The Act requires that TIB be audited by the Tanzanian
Audit Corporation (TAC) which is owned by the Government. TAC's staff is
inadequate at present but is expected to be strengthened. During nego-
tiations, TIB submitted the draft FY 1973 audit on which we have commented.
We have asked TIB to take our comments into account in the final audit. TAC
can subcontract audits and, if the final FY 1973 audit does not meet the
Bank's normal DFC standards, the Association will request that TAC sub-
contracts TIB's audit to an auditing firm acceptable to the Association.
4.11      Loan agreement with clients.  TIB's standard loan agreement with
its clients is satisfactory.  TIB normally asks for at least 150% security
against its loans, but in a few instances TIB has relaxed its requirements
because TIB considered the project sound, although it could not meet TIB's
normal security requirements.
4.12      Procurement and disbursement.  As a rule, TIB requires interna-
tional tendering for all items above Tsh 100,000 (US $14,000). TIB may waive
this requirement if local contractors or suppliers are available, but in
most cases the capital goods cannot be procured in Tanzania. Procurement
procedures also require that TIB must be consulted before contracts for
goods or services to be financed by TIB are awarded. In the past, TIB
became sometimes involved in the project too late to enforce its procurement
procedcures. Disbursement procedures are adequate.
V. RESOURCES, OPERATIONS. PORTFOLIO AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Resources
5.01      TIB's domestic currency resources consist of its paid-in share
capital (Tsh 50 million) plus accumulated reserves (Tsh 3.2 million).
Foreign exchange resources consist of Tsh 49.5 million untied funds from
Canada, Sweden and The African Development Bank, Tsh 87.5 million partly-
tied funds from Canada, Denmark and Finland and Tsh 313 million tied funds
from Bulgaria, China, India, the Netherlands and Russia. Annex 4 shows
all foreign credits and their terms. The untied portions of the partly-
tied credits must be used for the same projects for which the tied por-
tions are used and may not be used faster than the tied portion. In
addition to the credits listed in Annex 4, foreign lenders have provided
Tsh 27 million for some of the projects which TIB has already approved.
5.02      The foreign lines of credit typically are made to the Government
which then passes them on to TIB.  Usually the Umbrella Agreement (see
para. 3.08) governs the transfer to TIB. As is shown in Annex 4, the on-
lending terms and conditions vary from case to case and depend on the
specific requirements of each foreign lender. So far, only ADB granted
a line of credit (about $1.8 million) directly to TIB.



- 12 -
Operations
5.03      Annex 5 is a summary of TIB's operations since its inception in
NTovember 1970.  As of June 30, 1973, TIB had approved 33 loans and 5
equity investments in 31 enterprises.  Loan approvals amoumted to Tsh 95
million, of which Tsh 32 million for local expenditures and Tsh 63
million (67%) for imports. As of June 30, 1973, TIB had committed Tsh 50
million. TIB expects that the recent finalization of its Standard Loan
Agreement with clients will reduce the lag of eight to twelve months bet-
ween approvals and commitments and that, except for Tsh 4.4 million of
likely cancellations, all uncommitted approvals will be committed in the
next six months. As of June 30, 1973, TIB had disbursed Tsh 19 million
for 13 loans. Only three loans had reached the repayment stage; none
were in arrears. The five approved equity investments amount to Tsh 4.6
million, of which TIB has committed Tsh 2.7 million and disbursed Tsh 1.8
million. TIB expects to disburse the remainder before June 30, 1974. TIB
has almost reached the limit on its aggregate equity investments which,
at present, amounts to Tsh 5 million.
5.04      Annex 6 shows all loans approved by TIB as of June 30, 1973, and
Annex 7 presents an analysis of these loans. Annex 6 shows that the loans
have been extended to a wide variety of sub-sectors. As shown in Annex 7,
most loans are for public projects (80% by amount) and for expansions (60%).
Eighty percent amount to Tsh 5 million or less, but seven loans above
Tsh 5 million account for over half of gross approvals. Most loans have
maturities between five and ten years (60% by amount). About 80% of the
loans carry an interest rate of 819 or above; one-third carries an interest
rate of 9% or more.
5,05      Annex 8 shows the five equity investments approved by TIB. In
four cases, TIB's equity investment supplemented its loan. In one case
TIB owns more than 50% of the shares, perndinr a transfer of the shares to
NBC. Most of the companies are new and TIB has not yet received dividends.
TIB is represented on the Board of three companies.
NBC Portfolio
5.06      The portfolio of term loans granted by NBC prior to the establish-
ment of TIB was transferred to TIB in February 1971. At the time of trans-
fer, the portfolio included 37 loans with a total outstanding balance of
Tsh 100.2 million and undisbursed commitments of Tsh 7.2 million. TIB pur-
chased the portfolio at face value, for which it received a loan from NBC
in an equal amount. NBC also extended a line of credit to TIB to cover the
undisbursed commitments. The maturity of the NBC loan is the composite of
the maturities of individual subloans in the portfolio.  TIB pays NBC 514
in interest, plus a guarantee fee of 3/4 of 1% on the outstanding) balance.
In addition, NBC charges 1/16 of 1% on any amount which it collects on behalf
of TIB. In turn, NBC guarantees the outstanding loans unconditionally, i.e.,
any shortfalls in collections on the portfolio will be deducted from TIB's
debt to TBC.



- 13 -
5.07      An analysis of the NBC portfolio outstanding as of March 31, 1973,
is riven in Annex 9.  The portfolio included 2)4 loans with an outstanding
balance of Tsh 73 million. The median size was Tsh 750,000, but almost
half of the amount outstanding was for five loans above Tsh 5 million.  The
median maturity was 3 years; 30% of the amounts outstanding had matuirities
!onzer than 5 years. The interest rates varied between 6-4 and 9% with a
median rate ofr 8 and a weighted average of 7.5%. Two-thirds of the pro-
jects were more than 50% privately-owned, but they represented only one-
third o-F the amount outstanding.  Twenty-five percent of the projects were
in textiles.
5.08      Arrears.  As of Mlarch 31, 1973, five projects from the NBC port-
folio were in defrault for longer than three months. Total arrears from
these projects amoiLnted to Tsh 3.8 million, includin- Tsh 3.5 million from
the Eastern Africa National Shipping Line which is equally owned by
Tanzania, Kenya, TJganda and Zambia.  The company has promised to resiume
repayments and TIB has ag,reed to postpone payments of the amounts in
default.  The total amount outstanding on the five loans in arrears was
Tsh 10 million, or 13.9% of the entire portfolio, including Tsh 8 million
for the Eastern Africa National Shipping Line.
Financial Results
5.09      Annex 10 shows TIB's audited income statements for FY 1971 and
FY 1972 and the unaudited income statement for FY 1973. Profits after
taxes (about 40% of taxable income) amounted to 2.4% of net worth during
FY 1972 and 2.2% during FY 1973.  TIB derived most of its profits from
the NBC portfolio on which it earns a spread of 1-1/4%. TIB deposits
some of its excess funds with the National Bank of Commerce which are
then deducted from the outstanding balance of the NBC loan.  In this way
TIB obtains an effective yield on liquid funds of 514, whereas Treasury
paper yieldp only 4.2%.  As a remslt, the income statement understates
the interest on the NBC loan and overstates the spread on the NBC portfolio.
Administrative expenses amounted to 1% of average total assets during FY 1972
and 1.6% during FY 1973; the increase is partly due to the decrease of the
NBC portfolio. If the NBC portfolio, which requires relatively little
adninistrative expenses, is excluded, administrative expenses amounted
to 3.9% of averare total assets in FY 1973.
Financial Position
5.10      Annex 11 shows TIB's audited balance sheets as of June 30, 1971,
and 1972, and the unaudited balance sheet as of June 30, 1973.  As of
June 30, 1973, TIB's total assets amolnted to Tsh 129 million, including
Tsh 71 million for the NBC portfolio. TIB had drawn down Tsh 3.6 million
from foreign lines of credit and financed other loans for imports through
advances from its own (local) resources pendin. reimbursement by the Govern-
ment. TIB has not yet made any provisions for possible losses. No pro-
visions are needed for the NBC portfolio which is fully guaranteed by NBC.
The adequate amount of provision for losses on TIB's own portfolio is
difficult to determine since repayments have started on only a few loans.
The Association has asked that the auditors pay special attention to this
matter. Retained earnings amount to 7% of TIB's share capital.



- 14 -
VI. PROSPECTS
TIB's Projections
6.01      Annexes 12-1 through 12-5 show TIB's five-year operational and
financial forecasts together with the underlying assumptions. TIB expects
that the past trend in operations will continue and that approvals will
amount to Tsh 50 million during FY 1974 and FY 19?5 and Tsh 60 million per
annum thereafter (see Annex 12-2). TIB's operational forecasts, which do
not show new equity investments, would change if the limit on TIB's equity
investments were relaxed.
6.02      TIB's forecast of operations seem reasonable.  During the first
half of FY 1974, TIB approved seven projects for a total amount of Tsh 22
million. As of November 1973, TIB's pipeline (see Annex 13) included twenty-
two applications for Tsh 102 million. Some projects are still at a pre-
liminary stage, however, and the list may be optimistic in that it does
not adequately reflect major bottlenecks: the strict rationing of budget
funds for equity and, perhaps even more important, the shortage of managers
to implement the projects.
Foreign Resources
6.03      As of June 30, 1973, TIB had approved Tsh 39 million 1/and com-
mitted Tsh 25 million against its untied foreign resources (Tsh 50 million)
leaving Tsh 25 million uncommitted, and Tsh 11 million available for
future approvals.  TIB expects that, as in the past, about 70% of its new
loans will be for imports and that, in the next two years, it can finance 30%
of the import component from tied and partly tied credits, therefore requiring
umtied foreign funds for 70% of the import component, i.e., 49% of its operations.
TIB's present untied fumds will cover commitments until June 1974. The
table below shows TIB's additional requirements for untied foreign funds
for its operations through June 1976 (amounts in Tsh million):
Year ending June 30            1975    1976    Total
Commitments for imports           50       ho       90
Less financed from tied and
partly tied resources            15       12       27
35      28       63
'/ Including two equity investments.



- 15 -
To cover the import component of its commitments through June 1976, TIB
needs Tsh 63 million in new untied funds of which Tsh 21 million is expected
to be provided by Germany. An IDA crecit of $6 million (Tsh 42 million)
would cover TIB's approximate additional untied foreign resources require-
ments for its operations through Jume 1976. The IDA funds would constitute
about two-thirds of TIB's untied foreign resource requirements over the
two-year period.  TI3's projections assume that TIB will be able to use
Tsh 12 million in tied and partly tied foreign resources during FY 1974
and Tsh 14 million per annum thereafter. This seems reasonable.
Dome stic Resources
6.0)4     As of June 30, 1973, TIB's local resources amounted to Tsh 53
million of which Tsh 32 million was still uncommitted and Tsh 19 million
available for new approvals.  According to the projections TIB's local
resources position will develop as follows (amounts in Tsh million):
Fiscal year ending June 30
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
Available for approvals at
beginning of year                          19.0    6.9   (1.0)  (3-4)   3.2
Local resources generated
internally during year                      2.9    7.1   15.6   24.6   32.8
Approvals during year
(Local component)                         15.0   15.0   18.0   18.0   18.0
Available for approvals at end of
year (cumulative resources requiired
to cover approvals)                         6.9   (1.0)  (3.4)   3.2   18.0
TJncommitted approvals at year end           7.5    5.0    6.o    6.o    6.0
Available for commitments at end of year  14.4    4.0    2.6    9.2   2L[.0
The analysis shows that TIB's local resouirces will cover the local component
of its commitments throughout the period.  The analysis does not take into
account that TIB may increase its equity investments (see para. 3.02).
However, the Government intends to increase TIB's share capital by Tsh 20
million, possibly during FY 1976. Moreover, small portions of the partly
tied foreign credits may be used for local expenditures.



- 16 -
Projected Income and Profitability
6.05      Annex 12-3 shows TIB's projected profit and loss statements and
Annex 14 shows some selected ratios.  Profits as a percentage of average
net worth are projected to increase gradually to 5.1% after taxes (8.6%
before taxes) in 1978. The forecasts do not include provisions for
possible losses although TIB should start setting aside such provisions.
TIB's after tax profits are modest but sufficient to start establishing
provisions while leaving some retained earnings.
Projected Balance Sheets
6.06      Annex 12-4 shows TIB's projected balance sheets.  Total assets
are forecast to grow at 30% per annlm until FY 1977 and at 15% per annum
thereafter.  The debt/equity ratio will remain between 2.0 and 2.6 through-
out the period.  TIB's debt service capacity will be adequate; interest and
principal coverage will increase from 1.2 in 1974 to 3.2 in 1978.
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      TIB is a young governmental instituition operating in a centrally
planned economy.  The Government, known for its keen interest in economic
and social development, is continuing -ts reforms to attain its objectives
of economic growth and income equalization.  Management is the main con-
straint to development. TIB has the important role of checking, through
its approval, the financial and economic viability of parastatals' invest-
ment in industry, commercial agriculture and tourism.  TIB's operations
have increased rapidly and TIB is now the major financial institution
rrovidin- term loans to produictive enterprises.  TIB has by and large
financed sound projects, except in a few instances where the Government
directed TIB to invest in financially doubtful ventures. In the Tanza-
nlan environment, TIB cannct be expected to be independent from the Govern-
ment, but as an institution that is to subject the projects it finances
to rigorous scrutiny, it is important to clearly separate what it does
accordiiyg to its normal criteria and what is done for the Government
prinarily on social grounds.  During negotiations, the Association obtained
tr,e agreement of the Goverrment and TIB that TIB will finance at its own
-1 only financially sound investments and that the Government will assume
the risk on other projects, for instance, by providing Special Funds.
'^C4    LIB is financially sound and has an adequate appraisal capacity.
7.03      An IDA Credit of $6 million is recommended.  The Credit will fin-
ance the CIF cost of imported goods and an agreed percentage of construction



- 17 -
costs representing the estimated foreign exchange component of such costs.
Annex 15 shows the estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed Credit.
7.04      TIB's borrowers will bear the foreign exchange risk entailed by
the Credit. The credit will be on-lent to TIB through a subsidiary loan
agreement on the normal terms and conditions for lines of credit to DFCs.
TIB will need IDA's prior approval of each project using $100,000 or more
of the proposed Credit and will not be able to use more than $1 million in
total without IDA's approval.






Annex
Page 1
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL POLICIESV
In Chapter II the principles of operation for the Bank were stated, the
Bank has on this basis formulated a set of policies and operational
criteria which are set out in this 5hapter.  The four sections cover
(a) general policy (b) investment policy (c) financial policy (d) rela-
tionship with enterprises financed.
(a) General Policy
(1)   TIB will lend its assistance to the development of soundly
managed enterprises in the TJnited Republic of Tanzania in
all the sectors of the economy specified in the Act.
(2)   TIB will extend its assistance on the basis of national
priorities for economic and social development as laid down
in the current and future development plans. TIB shall only
finance projects which are technically feasible and eco-
nomically sound and, if financed from ordinary resources,
financially viable. According to the Act, the risk on
operations financed from a Special Fund must be borne by the
entity that provides the Special Fund. TIB's economic
evaluation shall take into account, among others, the foreign
exchange savings and earnings, the development of manpower
skills, employment opportunities and the spread effect on
the rest of the economy.
(3)   TIB will in the framework of the national development strategy
give priority to public sector projects.
(h)   TIB will not subsidise enterprise or projects whether in the
public or private sector. In the case of projects which are
less than financially viable the decision on their implementation,
because of their overall development effect, should be taken by
the national planning auithorities with appropriate recommendations
for Government subsidies.
(5)   TIB will take the lead in identifying and appropriately publi-
cising investment opportunities in all the produictive sectors
of the economy. It shall, where appropriate,extend technical
assistance and advice to its clients in matters of projects
planning, organisation and financing. It shall also place
emphasis on the use of suitable modern management techniques
among its customers.
j As described in Chapter IV of the TIB Handbook; the tex1; includes amendments
agreed upon dulring negotiations.



Annex 1
Page 2
(6)   All applications for TIB assistance must be formally submitted
to it in writing through the applicants'Board of Directors.
All applications must be accompanied by written confirmations
of relevant Ministries that the project in question is in line
with national development objectives.
(b) Investment Policy
~1)   TIB will ~ aan:. medLir- and lon'-term  loans whose terms and
conditions such as repamnent periods, interest rates, commit-
men' fees and grace periods, will be such as the Bank shall
stipulate. It shall also invest in the share capital of enter-
prises, underwrite securities and guarantee debt, as appropriate.
(2)   TIB's financial assistance from its ordinary resources will not
normally amount to less than Shs. 100,000. However, TIB will be
prepared to consider requests for financing of projects which,
while requiring a smaller amount, nevertheless present a definite
economic interest.
(3)   TIB will seek to diversify its portfolio in order to maintain
a reasonable level of risk. In this respect and as a general
rule, the total amount of loan granted by TIB together with
other eventual commitments under a guarantee in favour of a
sin-le project shall not exceed 75% of the value of the total
investment in fixed assets and capitalised services (i.e., ex-
cluding current assets/working capital). This means that TIB
can wholly finance a project which is an extension,provided the
total loan involved does not exceed 75% of the total fixed
investment programme. TJnder normal circumstances a figure of
60% shall be an acceptable target.
(4)   As a rule, the total outstanding commitments granted by TIB in
favour of a single project or enterprise shall not exceed 20%
of TIB1s net worth.
(5)   The restrictions laid down in paragraphs 3 and h above may be waived
in cases where TIB is acting as a trustee on behalf of the
Government or one oDf its agencies, for the channeling of foreign
and furds 'vo a specific project and whlere TIB's liability
towards the foreign agency or Lender is fully and unconditionally
covered by a guarantee from the Govern.ment of the agency
c oncerne;l.
(6)   TIB's total investments from its ordinary resources in the form
of equity participation may not exceed 10% of its paid-in share
capital plus unimpaired reserves.



Annex 1
Page 3
(7)   TIB will not grant loans for the purpose of refinancing
projects.
(8)   TIB will not finance infrastructure projects such as roads,
buildings, etc. except in so far as such infrastructure is
required as part of a project which does come within TIB's
terms of reference.
(9)   Where appropriate,TIB will join with other financing insti-
tutions, local or foreign, in financing projects.
(10)  TIB will endeavour to maintain a well-balanced loan port-
folio by distributing its commitments, i.e., loans, guarantees
and participations - prudently among the sectors of the
economy falling within the range of its objectives.
(c) Financial Policy
(1)   It is the general aim of TIB's financial policy to maintain the
value of its own capital, to manage its funds in such a way that
it is at all times able to honour its obligations and to achieve
a profit margin that enables it to cover its operating costs,
build-up adequate provisions and reserves, and renumerate its
share capital.
(2)   Within the limits set by the expected economic lifetime of an
asset or group of assets financed by a loan, grace and repayment
periods shall be so fixed that adequate debt service coverage
shall be assured. As a rule TIB considers that a total net cash
flow (after provision for income tax) in respect of a business
period of 1.4 times the repayment instalments scheduled for that
period, shall provide for such adequate coverage.
(3)   TIB shall charge interest rates, commissions, etc. at a level
that will enable it to obtain satisfactory financial results in
conformity with the national credit policy; the minimum interest
rate charged by TIB shall substantially reflect the cost of
capital in Tanzania.
(4)   A commission in terms of a percentage of outstanding loans or
participation amounts will be charged in return for particular
and specified services, such as one time or continuous provision
of technical assistance by TIB (organizational, planning) or
the negotiation and arrangement of finance from other sources.
The size of the commission will have to depend on the work and
effort involved for TIB; it should, however, normally not exceed
2% of the amount upon which it is charged.
(5)   The fee to be charged by TIB for the granting of a guarantee
to a supplier or lender shall depend on the nature of the
project, the general present and expected future standing of



Annex 1
Page 4
the borrower's business, the extent of the conmitnent entered
into, the size of the amount guaranteed and the duration of the
guarantee conmitment.  It shall normally not be less than 1b
and not higher than 214 p.a. on outstanding amounts.
(6)   On all loans a commitment fee shall be charged at the uniform
rate of 1% p.a. on committed but undisbursed balances from the
date of the  1.gnature of the loan agreement until respective
disbursement dates. An additional commitment fee of lΩ$ p.a.
shall be chargeable with respect to any special commitment
entered into by the Bank.
(7)   The maximum term of a loan or guarantee will be 15 years counted
from the date of the loan agreement until the date of the last
repayment instalment. This will cover the economic lifetime of
most assets (except buildings and perhaps, certain trees such as
coffee, cocoa or oil palms) eligible for TIB financing. The
maximum grace period - with interest due and payable - shall be
five years counted from the date of the loan agreement, in order
to take care of projects with long gestation periods.
(8)   TIB shall maintain a satisfactory balance between the maturities
of its own obligations and those of the loans it grants.
(9)   All charges, `.e., legal fees, bank charges and commissions
and all appraisal costs other than those normally incurred by
the Bank, will constit-ute recoverable items of expenditure
under the application and the loan agreement.
(10)  TIB will seek adequate security for its lendings, such as
debentures, nortgages, promassory notes and guarantees.  The
kind and amount of security required will depend on the nature
of the assets charged as to their degree of liouidity, the
standing of the guarantors and other considerations having
regard to the fi rexectW irns from a proJect.
(11)  In addition, '2.Hi ti'        ll awareness of the relative valule
of any type u4 rci soai secUrity (except for a first class
guaran-lAete         C>J- -uc ie-lcStances,incorporate in its
loan or Twarantee aO)!.eemenc  all' 'hose condi--i ons which in the
Bank s          au r r re dce-igned to i3pro-(w The borrbwer' s management
and organJ..zat . l se--up wJuh a vie-J o -rproved project
viability.  hreas o4 considertLuIon in th_s respect will be
(a) the selection of plant and equipment (b) plant location
(c) technical organization (d) cost accounting (e) product mix
(f) marketing and (g) financial policies, procedures and
practices.



Annex 1
Page 5
(12) In cases where loans are made in currencies other than Tanzanian
Shillings, TIB will not accept any exchange risk. This will
have to be borne by the borrower or by the Government.
(13) The Borrower has the right, upon not less than 30 days notice
and upon payment of all accrued interest, commitment fees,
charges and commissions to repay all or any instalments of the
loan in advance of maturities, provided that 25% of the amount
of the interest saved by the borrower through such repayment in
advance shall be paid to the Bank as a premium.
(14) Under certain specified conditions such as failure to make re-
payments or non-fulfillment of loan conditions the Bank may by
notice to the Borrower suspend wholly or in part the right of the
Borrower to disbursements from the Loan Account.
(15) TIB shall make adequate provisions against potential losses and build-
up reserves to a level consistent with sound financial practices,
taking into account the size and quality of its portfolio of loans
and investments as well as the need to pay adequate dividends to
its shareholders.
(16) Whenever it considers necessary to broaden its own facilities
for operations, TIB will obtain funds locally or abroad by the
issue of bond loans and/or by entering into loan agreements. In
this connection, the Bank shall not acquire debt other than Special
Funds, in excess of three times its paid up share capital plus
unimpaired reserves.
(d) Relationship with Enterprises Financed
(1)   TIB will not seek.,by the making of equity investments, to obtain
a controlling interest in a project or enterprise. It will also
generally avoid assuming management responsibilities in such
projects or enterprises. This will not, however, preclude TIB
from requiring membership on the Board of Directors of any or all
enterprises in which it has outstanding loans or guarantee
arrangements or in which it has equity participation.
(2)   When deciding upon the amount and form of financial assistance
it will provide, TIB will take into account all the financial
requirements of the project and the general financial situation
of the borrowers in question.



Annex 1
Page 6
(3)   In accordance with normal banking practices, TIB will
require its borrowers to provide and to maintain adequate
security, to keep records and accounts in accordance with
sound accounting practices and to furnish whatever informa-
tion on their operations and accounts TIB deems desirable.
TIB will have the right to inspect the enterprises of
finances as well as their operations and accounts.
(4)   Business secrets and other information furnished by applicants
or clients will be treated as confidential by TIB.
IBhD/DFCD
January 1974



Annex 2
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Board of Directors
Board Member                        Position                       Appointed by
Mr. G. F. Mbowe                 Managing Director                  Government
Chairman                       of TIB
Mr. F. A. Byabato               Principal Secretary                Government
to the Treasury
Mr. E. A. Mulokozi              Principal Secretary,               Government
Prime Minister's Office
Mr. T. Apiyo                    Principal Secretary,               Government
Ministry of Commerce
and Industry
Mr. A. J. Nsekela               Chairman and Managing              National Bank of
Director, NBC                      Commerce
Mr. J. K. Chande                Chairman and Managing              National Bank of
Director, Management               Commerce
and Suppliers Co. Ltd.
Mr. G. Mwaikambo                General Manager, National          National Insurance
Insurance Corporation             Corporation
IBRD/bFCD
July 1973






AMMTE 3
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of Directors
Managing Director
Mr. G.W. Mbowe         |
I     
General Manager
Mr. C. Kahangi
I     Loan Committee
L Chairman: Mr. Kahangi
Operations Department                 Planning & Development                   Finance Department                      Administratimn &
Department                                                                 Legal Department
Mr. E. Choler                     Mr. K. Tibesigwa                      Mr. B. Rahman                              Mr. Y. Rubama
4 Professi.onas                       4 Professionals
Appraisal Division                  Follow-up Division                                                               Legal Division                        Personnel &
9 Professionals                     3 Professionals                                                                  1 Lawver                             Administration
I                                                                                           1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Professional
Employment
Expatriates                               9
Professional Tanzanian staff              18
Professional Tanzanian staff on leave      4
IBRD/DFCD                                             Total professional staff                  31
Other staff                               47
Sept. 1973                                            Total staff                               78
World Bank-788312R)



Annex 4
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Schedule of Foreign Resources as of June 30,1973-
(amounts in Tsh '000)
Amount        Interest rate   Repayment   Percentage
available to TIB    to TIB,%        Period       tied
A. Untied resources
Canada                    13,200             0            20 years
Sweden                     8,900             4            30 years
Sweden                    14,800             0
ADB                        12,600            7            15 years        2/
Subtotal
B. Partly tied resourcesJ/
Denmark                    39,50O            0            30 years       65
Canada                    13,200             0            40 years       66
Rinland                   34 800             2            25 years       75
Subtotal
C. Tied resources
Bulgaxia                   21,400            2.5          12 years      100
Netherlands                 7,500            2.5          30 years      100
India                     49,000             5            12 years      100
U.S.S.R.                 126,000             2.5          12 years      100
China                    110,000             0            10 years      100
Subtotal              313,900
g  Indefinite repayment period.
j  Ten percent available for local cost financing.
S/ Untied portions can only be used proportional with tied portions and only for the
same proJecto.
To.be used for a specified project.
*/  Exclujding various credits totalling Tsh 27 million for specific projects already
approved by TIB.
7B,D/DFCD
,St. 1373



Annex 5
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Sumary of Operations 1971 - 1973
(amounts in Tsh '000)
Equity
Year ending                        Loans           Investments           Total
June 30,                      No.   Amount        No.    Amount      No.   Amount
1971:        Approvals        5       7,520      -        -          5       7,520
Commitments      -        -                             -        -
Disbursements    -        -                  -          -        -
1972:        Approvals       13      34,565       2      1,200      13      35,765
Commitments      7     16,570       1       1,000       7     17,570
Disbursements    7*-    9,092       1       1,000       7     10,092
1973:        Approvals       15      52,870       3      3,400      16      56,270
Commitments     12     33,285        2      1,700      13     34,985
Disbursements    6*     9,621        2        760       4     10,381
* number of projects on which disbursements started during period.
IBRD/DFCD
Sept. 1973



TANZANIA INVESTMENT NAOK
Li.. of L-ao AeBroad a, of ADL 20, _177
(A-.a,t. in Teh.'000)
Impor t Co,cPocect
E-onmi                                       Type of      Hajenity    Ao.at              PooefrmAgre-at-t   IntL-et   Repayment
Envro.ear             Activity                     ~~~~~~~~~      ~~~Lo -caio  Proent tltlreik   Apprved    Tied oods   fett Led _FooRd I _   -S__n  toe)           Peiod                                     gaea,rkt
AEZ_onve_AdurinoFY 1971
lIAPI                                 Proseof  M.v"  beons                   Ar.aha            N-.          ftblir           200            -               -Te                     9            1-1/2 yr..       F.Ily rep.id
icoral Ty,  t.A.                      Prod-otln  of RadialI Tyre.            Ar-.h.            Nem          Pablic         2,590            --Ye,                                   0            7 Ir.Folly dihbiroed; Joletly fino--d                    Ft/ ,pih
Natinne  Printleg Co.                ftPristgo                                 Dr -o S.Isote   Eepa...ioc   Public         1.130                                         Y..le      9            3 nr.F.lly di.b.teed
Nyanr. SalIt Mieee                    Prdote  fcti-nns                                         REpacaio     Piblic         3,000            -               -Ye-                    0-1/2        10 yea.         Folly diabot.ed
xiIIm.snjer  Blanet-1r,              Pft=d-nttla  of bianbeto                T..g.             fop .. Le tee   i-ete         600           600                           No         0            6 yre.          R-ippli.d for larger 1oan
S.b-Total                                                                                                                  7,520            600 
iherond Oeim  fY19-72
Tanneeta Shon Co;gC.                  Shoe - ma tofeirfts                    Di.. 0  Salaaa ipoco    Peblin                  650            -               -            Tea        0-1/2        2 yr-            Folly di,borsed
Natoa -IE.SerogC.tela.ol-rklo                                                Dar eo Sole.-  , npo...fn   Pablit            2,000            -2,000                       Too        N            7 y,e.           Portly digborsedl Also aqity i-oetnint
Li-n Produivie le.- Corp.            ftodortio  of lIme ji.io                Mm...             feonlo    Publi               400             --                          Tee        8-1/2        7 yra.
Y. tlnol milli".  Co-p.               Melon mill                              fodoo            BN-          Pablir         2,000             -            2,000          Tea        8-1/2        7 ys.,
Notinnal Cold Chain Op-n              CoId eta-D- Oarv  Sal...   Bee                                        Poblir         2,000         7,000              -            00-        7            12 Y'..
Mtiheasnide initet.                   Oo0or ent,to & foctory                 Honoo             Epan-io    Mined            7.000             -            2,000          Ta,        9            0 yrs.           loi.tly fioanoad a! EADB
004. Arh.t Rote1                      Nonol                                  OAr.ha            Ep.ani-n   lriv-r           3,0002                         3,002          N.         9            7 yea.           Lik.lyna-neIl.tio
DSM Mot-r Tranapont Co.               Nv. ,cpeoy                             Dir esSaoa    Enponivo   Pablic               7,500            --                           Yn"        0-1/2        5 yre.
BYa-n  Sal t micra                    P-od-oti-n at colt                     Uoloc             Enp ...io    Publir         1,500            -1,500                       So.        9            10 yrs,          Jointly fi ...ved ./ 0.0D0
T."osi. lN-y Bo.e  C..                Peon-noig of N.oy be.c.                 Ar.eha           tEpo-i-n   Public           1.200            -1,200                       Yea        8-1/2        B yea.
PeoPIe's ftod-nt. Ltd.                imitation jeseley                      lir no Salen   Bee             Pt i-te          400            -               400          No         9           6 yr-
Hs_eeehi ilvea  Iondonc               Fiohing                                 Dot onSal...   E.panclo       Mined          1,400         1.400              -            N.         8-1/2        5                Le.lknly oaucell.tioc
T.ecania Coasta  Ibippico Lloe        Shipping                                for enSeleon   tEpa-i-n   Poblin             .515              -             .1.           Yea        0            10' yen.
ISab-Tata1                                                                                                                34.565         8,400           17.615
Approve1s doeic Nt 1973
Twabc Chipboerd. Ltd.                 Ceod penoesieg                         Mo-a,,            topo...io     Poblij          500             -              500          Ten        9-1/2        3 ys..
Fibrebzad E.A. Ltd.                   Ftbreboard p-od-ctia                   Aru.h.            N-w           Pablio        6,00             -               -            Y..        8-1/2        12 yea.          Jointly finacced as! EADB
Kseectili Estate                      C-n.. iEat.t                            Kas-ttli         Ecpa...iae    Private         600             -              600          No         S            0 yra.
Batlaca  Millie8 Carp.                Bakery                                 Dan  -c Sloo      Nan           Poblir        9,00.0         9.000                          N.B                                      Ters still to 6. determined
T ... rla NatiIoa  Parka              ClimbIng htn                           91.6h1            N-s           Poblin        1.5D0         1,500              -            Te          8           0 yea.
Kamba, Ccle lcd.                      Birynl a, eml                           liDr as lolcoo   Eoptso.ai-,   fni-at        1.100             -            1,500           No        9            6 ira.           Alto e9vlty iaoeat_ar
It...Ilyi Es tate                     Cano  ,state*l                          Kw.tatill        Ecp ...ion    Pri-ate         400                            400           No.       9            0 -r..
Neatl  ish Prorecig Cc.-              Pi.hmel p-od-tnin                       Dir -s SIcioc     aN           Pohltr        1,100                          1.500           Ho         0-1,'2      N yea.
T.....cis Te ic  and Bepmn Ltd.       Taio  .ad rope etg.                     T.ag.            lI nin        Poblin        4,500             -4,500                       No         8-1/2       2 nrc.
Mt. Mern RotS                         Hte                                     A-oh.            N-s           Pubi.hl       7.500                                          No                                    Alpron..d ic pticnipie:tse,ma I c.nidltiln  still tv he dtetariled
TanBan,yikne Tegry Ple-tina           Pdotoof FVc pipo.                       Diar en Saleo-   Eop.-i-o   Poblir           3.670                          3,620          Vno         0-1/7       5 Yra
T=.uayiks Ied. C-ep.                  Twice 4 rope  fg.                       Tacis            E.p.ecion    Private        1,500             -1.500                      100         8-1/2       a Yea.          J.iLoly fir,ec-d with TDPL
T.....afa Chemleel Ile&atrtea         ChseInals peodontlee                    lir .a  alS.   E p . iycono   Private        2,000             -            2,00n          N.v         9-1/'2      6 yes,          JoIntly fieaccad with TOPI.
SA.  Hi 011  S.. Mill.                aSt mill                                San 9jU          Ecp-cal-    Public          7,700          1,000             -            NO         0-5/2        3 y-n.
KItilmaJ.rn NoteS                     Nerdl                                    iar, .e Saico   Re..on-tia   Public         5.000          *,,,,           2.500          N.          9          10 yea.
g.b-T.tal                                                                                                                 52,070         11.500          10,670
Grsad Total                                                                                                               9495            24,500         36.205
lORD 'DCD
SepCamber 1973



Annex 7
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Analysis of loans approved as of June 30, 1973
(amounts in Tsh '000)
No.      %      Amount      _
A.  Size
Under Tsh 1,000,000                            9       27      4,265        5
Tsh 1,000,001 - Tsh 5,000,000                 17       52     38,690       41
Tsh 5,000,001 - Tsh 7,500,000                  5       15     35,000       37
Tsh 7,500,001 and more                         2       36     16,700       17
33     l0     094,6550
Average size: Tsh 2,868,000
Median size: Tsh 1,500,000
B.  Maturity
Less than 5 years                              5       15      3,980        4
5 - 10 years                                  21       64     60,160       64
10 years and over                              7       21     30,515       32
33    70-0     7,6955      100
Average maturity:  8 years
Median maturity:  7 years
C.  Interest rate!!
7%                                             1        3      7,000        9
8%                                             6       20       7,805      10
8-1/2%                                        14       45     41,220       53
9%                                             9       29     20,130       26
9-1/2%                                         1        3      2,000        2
31     100      78,155     100
Average and median interest rate: 8-1/2%
D. New/Extension
New                                           10       30      37,390      40
Extension                                      23      70     57,265       60
33     100     94,655      100
E.  Ownership
Less than 50% private                          23      70      76,255      80
50% private                                     2       6       8,400        9
More than 50% private                           8      24      10,000      11
33     T00    94,655y    100
F.  Location
Dar es Salaam                                  14      42      42,965      45
Arusha                                          6      18      20,490      22
Other                                          13      40      31,200       33
_                                            33      100     94,655      100
1/ The interest rate of twb loans has not yet been determined.
IBRD/DFCD
Sept. 1973



TANZANIA NV:ESTMENT BANK
List of Equity Investments Approved as of June 30, 1973
(Amounts in Tsh.'000)
Economic                          Type of    Majority   Amount of          Financed from     TIB's share
Company                Activity           Location        Project   Ownership  equity approved  untied funds    in total equity
Mamba Cycles           Bicycle          Dar es Salaaam   Expansion   Private         1,500           1,500               60
Industries            manufacturing
National &igineering  Mechanical        Dar es Salaam    Expansio4,  Public          1,000             -                 33%
Company               workshop
Tanzania Navy Beans   Navy bean        Arusha             Expansion   Public           200             -                 25%
Company               processing
Tanzania Tours Ltd.   Tour operator   Arusha                                         1,500           1,500               43%
Tanzania Chemical      Chemicals       Dar es Salaam    Expansion   Private            4∞∞-                              33%
Industries Ltd.        production
Grand total                                                                          4,600           3,000
j/ TIB owns majority in this project, pending transfer of shares to NDC.
IBRD/DFCD
Sept. 1973



Annex 9
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Analysis of NBC portfolio2/
(Amounts in Tsh '000)
No.      %       Amount
A. Size
Up to Tsh 1 million                         15      63         5,969       8
Tsh 1,000,001 - 5,000,000                    3      12         4,458       6
Tsh 5,000,001 - 10,000,000                   4      17        30,652      43
Tsh 10,000,001 and above                     2       8        31,520      43
7      100        72,599     100
B.  Maturity as of March 31. 1973
Up to 1 year                                 6      25        12,944       18
Between 1 and 3 years                        7      29         8,350       11
Between 3 and 5 years                        8      33        30,170      42
More than 5 years                                    13       21,135       29
24     100        72,599     100
C. Interest Rate
&%A                                         1       4         1,219       2
7%                                           3      13        21,152       29
7<%                                          2       8        12,245       17
7Ω%                                          3      13        20,410       28
8%                                           8      33         3,789        5
8~9                                          5      21        13,324       18
9%                                           2        8           160       1
27     100        72,5799    100
D. Ownership
Less than 50% private                        6      25        29,941       41
50% private                                  2       8        17,020       23
More than 50% private                       16       67       25,638       36
27     100        72,599     100
E. Economic Activity
Textiles                                     6      25        18,874       26
Food and Food processing                     2        8        1,200        2
Transport                                    3      13        10,401       14
Tourims                                      3      13        21,150       29
Petroleum refinery                           1       4        11,510       16
Other                                               37         9.454       13
24     100        72,599     100
1/  Outstanding as of March 31, 1973
IBRD/DFCD
July, 1973



Annex 1 0
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Income Staterents 1971-1973
(amounts in Tsh '000)
Year ernding June 30                        1971-                1972                 1973
(audited)           (au=ed)             (estMaed)
.EVOE
Income from short term investments        15129                b68                   545
Income from NBC portfolio                 3,713              6, 160                5,701
Income from TIB portfolio                   -                  361                 1,278
Total revenue                             4,842              7,989                 7,524
EXPENSES
Interest on borrowings2/                  3,004              4,454                 3,469
Administrative expenses                     422              1,327                 1,928
Depreciation and amortization                31                125                   234
Total expenses                            3,457              5,906                 5,631
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                          1,385              2,083                 1,893
TAXES                                          5146               860                   757
PROFIT A-FTER TAXES                            839              1,223                 1,136
1/  Ω months only.
2/ Almost exclusively for NBC loan.
IBRD/DFCD
September, 1973



Annex 11
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Balawne Sheets 1971-1973
(Amounts in Tsh '000)
As of June 30                               1971                1972                 1973
(audited)          (audited)            (unaudited)
ASSETS
Cash and banks                             214              1,281                  151
Short term investments                  49,620             39,458               34,8553
Other current assets                     1,171                842 1_689
Current asse3ts                         51,04 ,r5<81                            36,402
Loans outstanding - NBC portfolio       93,952             81,349               73,796
Loans outstanding - TIB portfolio         -                 9,092               18,3)0
Ecuity investments                                          1,000                1d,?6o
Temporary advance                                                                  500
Net fixed assets                           435              1 3 +
Total assets                           145,392            134,365              128,982
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities                        601                955                 I,4115
Loan from NBC                           93,952             81,349                70,7T8
Borrowing from Governnent-./               -                  -                   3,571
93,952            81,349                74,368
Paid-in Share capital                   50,000             50,000               50,000
Retained earnings                          839              2,061                3,198
Total equity                            50,839             52,061               53,198
Total liabilities and equity           145,392            134,365              128,982
Undisbursed comnitments                                     7,1478               32,082
1/ Foreign loans passed on to TIB.
IBRD/bFCD
September, 1973






Annex 12 -1
Page 1
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Projection Assumptions
1. Approvals
Loans: Tsh 50 million during FT 1974 and FT 1975; Tsh 60 million thereafter.
70% of the amounts will be for imports.
Equity investments: no new approvals after FY 1973.
2. Commitments
Loans will be committed six months after approval during FY 197h; four
months thereafter. All equity investment will be committed during
FY 1974.
3. Disbursements
Loans: Disbursements of past approvals have been estimated for each project.
For new approvals, hO'% will be disbursed during the year of commitment, 40%
during the following year and 20% during the next following year.
All undisbursed equity- investment will be disbursed during FY 1974.
4. Loan collections
Repayments of NBC portfolio and previously approved TIB loans are based
on actual amortization schedules. Future loans will have average repayment
period of ten years including three years of grace.
v. Share capital
Paid-up share capital will be increased by Tsh 20 million during FY 1976.
TIB will not pay dividends through FY 1973.
6. Provisions
The projections do not include provisions for bad debts and losses.
7. Interest rates and charges
Interest rate on NBC portfolio:       7.6%
Interest rate on TIB portfolio:       8.5; -
Commitment for an undisbursed loans:l /A
Yield on short term investment:       425%
Interest rate on NBC loan:            6.25%
Interest rate on other borrowing
(except'ADA loan and SIDA
grant which are interest free):  6 %
Commitment charges on unwithdrawn
borrowings:                        1 %
1/ DTring nei,otiations TIP, agreed to raise its minimum lending rate to 9%.



Annex 12-1
Page 2
3. Yield on equity investment
9%, starting the second year after disbursement.
9. Taxes
40% of taxable income. Income tax is payable during the year after that
in which the profit was earned.
IBRD/DFCD
July 1973



Annex 12-2
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Forecast of Operations (1974-1978)
(Amounts in Tsh '000)
Year ending June 30       19731                    1975        1976        1277      1978
(estimated
actual)
Approvals
Equiity investments       3,4001'       -            -           -           -         -
Loans for local
expenditnres             8,200       15,000      15,000       18,000    18,000    18,000
Loans for imports        43,170       35,000       35,000                 4 4   2,000    42,000
Total approvals          54,770       50,000       50,000      60,000    60,000    60,000
Commitments
Equity investments          200       3,4oo∞ a                   -            
Loans for local
expenditures            13,900       9,700        17,500      17,000    18,000    18,000
Loans for imports        22,415      55,870        40,833 "   39,667    42,000    42,000
Total commitments        36,515      68,970        58,333      56,667    60,000    60,000
Disbursements                               2/
Equity investments          200       3,400o         _
Loans for local
expenditures             8,189       9,700        13,000      15,300    17,500    17,800
Loans for imports         9,279       8,325        39,203      35,700    40,834    41,533
tiribursements    17,668      61,425        52,203       51,000    58,3314   59,333
1/ The projections were prepared before the actual figures for 1973 became available.
This explains any discrepancies for 1973 with Annex 5.
2/ Includin- Tsh 3 million in foreign exchange.
j redlV, anIC  -S noNIonctue0inn          exaMroject, to be financed from the IDA
IBRD/DFCD
July 1973






Annex 12-3
TANZANIA INVESTMETT BANK
Projected Income Statements (197h-1978)
(Amounts in Tsh 1000)
Year ending June 30           9          1974        1975       1976        1977      1978
(estimated
actual)
REVENUE
Income from ST investments      542       1,134      1,120      1,4i6       1,993     2,462
Income from NBC portfolio    5,541       4,323       2,904      1,971       1,205       735
Income from TIB loans         1,386      4,824       9,245     12,948      16,205    19,035
Dividend income                              80         96         368        368        368
Total revenue                7,469     10,361      13,365     16,703      19,771    22,600
EXPENSES
Akdministrative expenses      1,730       2,573      2,856       3,o65      3,263      3,52∞
Depreciation                    238         266        263         236        199        201
Interest on NBC loan          3,200      3,835       2,580      1,751       1,070       653
Other interest and
commitment charges               -       1,295       3,777      6,o45       8,338    10,757
Total expenses                5,168       7,969      9,476     11,097      12,870    i5,4h0
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES            2,301       2,392      3,889       5,606      6,901      7,460
TAXES                            965       1 030      1,612       2,286      2 789      3 019
PROFIT AFTER TAXES             1,3          1,362     20lt,L4]
1/  The projections were prepared before the unaudited fimures for 1973 became available.
This explains any discrepancies for 1973 with Annex 5.
TBRD/-DFCD
July 1973



Annex 12-4
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BAMN
Projected Balance Sheets (1474-1978)
(Amounts in Tsh '000)
As of June 30                L973-'     1974        1975       1976        1977       1978
(estimated
actual)
ASSETS
Cash and banks                  200       125         119        167         222        134
Short-term investments       24,200    29,700      23,800     44,100      51,100     66,200
Other current assets          1,649     2,148       2,824      3,446       4,007      4,560
Current assets               26,049    31,973      26,743     47,713      55,329     70,894
Outstanding loans
NBC portfolio                69,164    44,618      31,817     20,063      11,635      7,710
TIB loans in local
currency                    12,838    20,706      30,618     42,640      54,812     65,338
TIB loans in foreign
currency                    12,574    60,310      97,276    124,077    148,811    167,710
Loans outstanding            94,576   125,634    159,711    186,780    215,258    240,758
Equity investments            1,200     4,600       4,600      4,600       4,600      4,600
Net fixed assets              1,8o6     2,230       2,655      2,569       2,51o      2,739
ToLal assets                123,631   164,437    193,709    241,662    277,697    318,991
LIABILITIES AND EQTJITY
Cuirrent liabilities          1,070     1,145       1,738      2,425       2,942      3,187
Borrowings
-  BC loan                   69,164    44,618      31,817     20,063      11,635      7,710
Foreign borrowing(s)           -      63,915    103,118    138,818    178,652    219,185
Total borrowings             69,164   108,533    134,935    158,881    190,287    226,895
Share capital                50,000    50,000      50,000     70,000      70,000     70,000
Retained earnings            .3,397     4 7'        7,036     10,356      14 468     18,909
Total equity                 53,397    5475-9      57,036     80,356     ______      88,90g
To at' liabilities and
eolllt-                    123,631   164,437    193,709    241,662    277,697    318,991
1/ These projections were prepared before the unaudited figures for 1973 became available.
This explains any discrepancies with Annex 11.
IBRD/DFCD
July 1973



Annex 12-5
TANfZANIA INVESTKENT  EANK
ProJected Cash Flow Statements (974-1978)
(Amounts in Tsh '000)
Year ending June 30          1973       1974        1975       1976       1977        1978
(estimated
actual)
SOLRCES
Profit after tax             1,336      1,362       2,277      3,320      4,112       4,441
plus depreciation              238        266         263        26          199        201
Cash from operations         1,674      1,628           0      3,556      411         4,6
Reduction in ST
investmaents                15,258         -        5,900         -           -          -
Loan collections
-TIB portfolio               1,148      2,421      5,325      12,177     21,428      29,908
-NBC portfolio              12,185     24,546     12,801      11,754      8,428       3,925
Foreign borrowings              -      63,915      39,203     35,700      40,834     41,533
Increase in share capital       -          -           -      20,000          -          -
Total sources               30,165     92,510     65,769      83,187      75,001     80,008
USES
Increase in fixed assets       701        690         688        150         140        430
Disbursements of loans
-domestic currency           8,189      9,700     13,000      15,300      17,500     17,800
-foreign currency            9,279     48,325      39,203     35,700      40,834     41,533
Equity investments             200      3,400          -          -           -          _
Increase in ST
insvestments                    -       5,500          -      20,300       7,000     15,100
Repayment of loans
-NBC loan                   12,185     24,546      12,801     11,754       8,428      3,925-
-other borrowings               -          -           -          -        1,000      1,000
Net increase in
receivables                    692        424          83         (65)        44        30
Total uses                  31,246     92,585      65,775     83,139      74,946     80,096
Increase (decrease) in
cash                        (1,081)        (75)       (6)         48          55         (8ev
IBRD/DFCD
July 1973






Annex 13
Page 1
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
List of Selected Projects requiring TIB Financing
(amounts in Tsh million)
T I B Loans
Tied      Other
Sponsor  Project         New/Exp. Total  Foreign   Foreign Local              Comments
NDC   Steel Rolling Mill  Exp      5.8    4.1          -      1.7   Size of expansion not yet
(India)                   decided; equity funds only
allocated for smallexpansion
N)C   Kibo Paper           Exp     5.5      -        3.9      1.6   Equity available from
present operation.
7\TC   Garments            New      1       -        1         -    Equity allocated.
NDC    Farm Implements     New     0.3    0.3        -         -    Study completed by an
Indian firm of consultants.
Td,al cost of project:
Tsh. 15 milliDn.
T\AFCO Kagera , Sugar      Exp     8 -      _        8         _
NTAFCO Kilombem Sugar      New      8/1     _        8         -    Tsh 260 million sugar
project to be implemented
by HVA; priority project.
'rAFCO  Dairy Industries    Exp     o.4     -        0.4       -    Expected to go ahead.
?\TAFCO Mwananchi Ocean                                              Preliminary;  previous loan
Products           Exp      1.4    1.4        -        -    will probably be cancelled.
7NTAFCO NTavy Beans Company   Exp    10.0   -      1O.O        -
NAFCO  Bagamoyo Farms      Exp      1.2    1.2        -        -
TTC    New Safari Hotel,
Arusha             Exp     2.0      -        0.4      1.6
TTC    Hotel in Mbeya      New      1.0     -        0.2      0.8   Still under study.
TTC    Hotel in Kigoma     New      0.5     -        0.'5      -
5SMC    Cement Factory     New    10.0      -        7.0      3.0   New cement factory near
Tanga to produce 250,000
tons of cement p.a. by
beginning of 1977.
,WC    Gemstones           Exp     1.5     -        1.5(ADB)  -    Under study.
1/ Represents maximum amount of TIB financing:  actual financin,z requirements are more.



Annex 13
Page 2
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
List of Selected Projects requiring TIB Financing
(amounts in Tsh million)
T I B Loans
Tied     Other
Sponsor                        New/Exp  Total  Foreign  Foreign  Local              Comments
TBYC      Fishing Boats
Building            New       2.0       -       1.4      0.6   Feasibility study com-
pleted by FAO.
SHIRECTJ   Shinyanga Cotton-
Seed Processing    New       ]4.0       -       9.8      4.2   Same. To be imple-
mented after 1976.
NCTJ/VOIL  Mwanza Cotton-
Seed Processing    Exp        7.0       -       4.9      2.1   Same. Also after
1976.
Pyrethrim
Board     Pyrethrum             New       7.0       -       4.9      2.1   Same.
Alavi
Shipping
Corp.     Shipping              Exp       2.4       -       2.4       -    Freighter Service be-
tween East Africa
and Middle East
Tanzania Coastal
Shipping Lines                9.7       -       9.7       -
Tanzania
Shoe Co.  Shoes                 Exp       3.6       -       3.6       -
Total:            102.3      7.0     77.6    17.7
IBRD/DFCD
Janulary 1974



Annex 14
TANZANIA INVESThENT BANK
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios (1971-1978)
Actual                   Projected
Year ending June 30                     1971#' 1972  1973    1974  1975  1976  1977  1978
1. Income Statement Elements as
% of Average Total Assets
Gross income                         3.3    5.7   5.7      7.2   7.5   7.7   7.6   7.6
Less: Financial expenses            2.0    3.2   2.6      3.5   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.8
Administrative expenses       0.3    1.0   1.6      2.0   1.7   1.5   1.3   1.3
Gross profit                         1.0    1.5   1.5      1.7   2.2   2.6   2.7   2.5
Less: Provisions for loans
and investments                -      -     -        -     -      -     -      -
Tax                          0o.     0.6   o.6      0.7   0.9   1.1   1.1   1.0
Yet Profit                           o.6    0.9   0.9      1.0   1.3   1.5   1.6   1.5
2. Income from Loans and Cost of
Long-Term Debt
Yield on long-term loans as %
of average long-term loan            4.0    7.8   8.3      9.0   8.5   8.6   8.7   8.7
Cost of all long-term debt as
% of average total debt 2/           3.2    5.1   4.4      5.8   5.2   5.3   5.4   5.5
3. Net Profit and Dividends
ret profit as % of year-end
share c2pital                        1.7    2.5   2.3      2.7   4.6   4.7   5.9   6.3
Net profit as % of average
equity                               1.7    2.4   2.2       2.5   4.1   4.8   5.0   5.1
Dividends as % of year-end
share capital                         -          -      -       -     -     -         -
Pay-out ratio                         -       -     -        -     -      -       
4. Debt to Equity Ratio
Long-term debt/Equity                1.8    1.6   1.4       2.0   2.4   2.0   2.3   2.6
Long debt/Eqnity
(excluding NBC loan)                  -      -    0.1      1.2   1.8   1.7   2.1   2.5
Total debt/Equity                    1.9    1.6   1.4      2.0   2.4   2.0   2.3   2.6
5. Debt Coverage
Interest Coverage                    1.47   1.50  1.61    1.52  1.65  1.75  1.75  1.67
Interest and Principal
Coverage                             n.a.   n.a.  n.a.    1.17  1.49  1.92  2.46  3.23
1/  7Ω months only.
g/  TIB deposits some of its liquid funds with NBC which offsets part of the NBC loan for
computation of interest charges. Accordingly the cost of debt is somewhat understater






Annex 15
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Credit
Amount ($'000)
FY 1975
First quarter                                     300
Second quarter                                    300
Third quarter                                     400
Fourth quarter                                    400
FY 1976
First quarter                                     600
Second quarter                                    600
Third quarter                                     600
Fourth quarter                                    600
FY 1977
First quarter                                     5,00
Second quarter                                    ioo
Third quarter                                     400
Fourth quarter                                    400
FY 1978
First quarter                                     100
Second quarter                                    100
Third quarter                                     100
Fourth quarter                                    100
6,000
IBRD/DFCD
December 1973



