CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 460 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(TIB Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 13, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 460 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(TIB Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 13, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 13, 1974, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
a)   "Act" means the Tanzania Investment Bank Act, 1970, as amended
from time to time;
(b)   "TIB" means the Tanzania Investment Bank established under the Act
and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and TIB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TIB pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
TIB to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of such portion
of the proceeds of the Credit as will be relent to TIB under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement for the purpose of the Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a


﻿4
sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement;
(f)   "investment" means an investment other than a -ub-loan made or
proposed to be made by TIB out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to TIB
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project;
(g)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which TIB proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made
an investment;
(h)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment;
(i)   "Tanzanian Shillings" and "TSh" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(j)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower;
(k)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by TIB or by any one or more subsidiaries of TIB or by TIB and one
or more of its subsidiaries; and
(1)   "Statement of Policy" means the policies set forth in Chapter IV of
the TIB Handbook approved by the Directors of TIB on December 18, 1973, as
amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Except as otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, the amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
for amounts expended (or if the Association shall so agree, for expenditures to
be made) by TIB under a sub-loan or investment to finance the reasonable foreign


﻿5
currency cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect
of which the withdrawal is requested; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall
be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment unless:
(i)         the sub-loan or investment shall have been approved by the
Association; or
(ii)        the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the
Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
(b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) above, except as otherwise agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be authorized by the Association in respect of expenditures under a sub-loan
or investment:
(i)         in a foreign currency for goods procured, or services supplied
from, outside the territories of the Borrower,
(ii)        in Tanzanian Shillings on account of not more than sixty-five
per cent (65%) of the invoiced price for goods previously
imported into the territories of the Borrower through normal
trade channels;
(iii)       in Tanzanian Shilings on account of not more than forty per
cent (40%) of the invoiced price for goods produced in the
territories of the Borrower to a substantial extent from materials
previously imported into the territories of the Borrower; and
(iv)        in Tanzanian Shillings on account of not more than forty per
cent (40%) of the contract price under civil works and/or
construction contracts to be carried out in the United Republic
of Tanzania.
(c)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed
the sum of: (i) $100,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for any
other project directly and materially related to such Investment Project; and (ii)
$1,500,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the foregoing amounts
being subject to change from time to time as determined by the Association.


﻿6
(d)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree and
subject to the limitation contained in Section 5.01(a) of the General Conditions,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or in
respect of an investment, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the
application and information required by Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement
or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be determined by the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1984, and ending January 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.08. The Borrower hereby designates TIB as its representative for
the purpose of taking any action required or permitted under Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit;
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Credit is to assist TIB in financing the
development of productive facilities and resources in the United Republic of


﻿7
Tanzania. The Project consists of the financing by TIB of specific development
projects through loans to and investments in productive enterprises in the United
Republic of Tanzania, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of TIB.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
TIB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and TIB under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan .greement or any provision thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall take or cause all its agencies to take all action
which shall be necessary on their part to enable TIB to perform all of its obligations
under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such perfornance.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause TIB to use its ordinary capital
resources (as defined in Section 7 of the Act) for the financing of projects in
accordance with sound technical, economical and financial principles.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accoimnplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from   time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of the respective obligations of any party under this Agreement, the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations, and financial position of TIB and its subsidiaries and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower.


﻿8
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of TIB.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by any party of its obligations under this Agreement,
the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. This Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.0 1. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such


﻿9
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   TIB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower or TIB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to TIB having an original
maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become
due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(d)   a change shall have been made in the Act, which will materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the objectives, operations or
financial condition of TIB;
(e)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of TIB;
(f)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by TIB, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely
affect the conduct of TIB's business or TIB's financial position or the efficiency
of TIB's management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project;
(g)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable (i) that TIB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement, or (ii) that TIB will be able to perform its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(h)   a change shall have been made in the Statement of Policy without
the Association's consent.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (f) or (g) of Section 6.02
hereof shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and


﻿10
(b)   the event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) or (h) of said Section
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
TIB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and TIB have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, TIB and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of TIB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the respective parties thereto
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of such parties in accordance with
its terms.
Section 7.03. The date June 14, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The provisions of Sections 6.02 and 6.03 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿*                                 11
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.0 1. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For th- Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable add ress:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿13
SCHEDULE
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions
are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in Section
1.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement."
(2)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) is renumbered as Section
6.02(h).
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of tte
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (e) of Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Association in respect of the portion of the Credit referred to in paragraph
(b)(iii)(A) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, or having
been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account,
the Association may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(4)  The words "the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
(5)  The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Cn it Agreement" in Section 8.02.
0


