WB Loan Application Project




   ENVIRONMENT IMPACTASSESSMENT
                     SUMMARY


                           OF


 CUIJIAYING SHIPPINGAND HYDROPOWERPIVOTALPROJECT
                   AT THE HANRIVER


                     (FinalReport)




      HUBEIPROVINCIALCOMMUNICATIONS BUREAU

                    JANUARY 2005


                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

1.0 GENERAL    .......................................................................................................        1
  1.1 PROJECT BACKGROUND           ...................................................................................        1
  1.2 PREPARATION   BASIS........................................................................................             i

2.0 BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO THE PROJECT                                        ............................................    2
3.0 ENVIRONMENT BASELINE                       ........................................................................      3

  3.1 PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT            ................................................................................ 3
  3.2 ENVIRONMENTPROTECTIONOBJECTS                       .............................................................. 3
  3.3 AMBIENTAIR QUALITY BASELINESURVEY ......................................................                               4
  3.4 ACOUSTICENVIRONMENT             QUALITY BASELIKE                 .................................................     4
  3.5 SURFACE WATERENVIRONMENT                   QUALITY        BASELINE.......................................              4
  3.6 STATUS OF SOIL EROSION................................................................................. 4
  3.7 SURVEY ON CULTURALSITES ..........................................
  3.8 SITUATIONS OF SOCIO-ECONOMY .....................................................................                      5

4.0  ENVIRONMENT IMPACTS                    ...........................................................................      5
  4.1 IMPACTS ...................................................
              ON WATERENVIRONMENT
  4.2 IMPACTSENVIRONMENT
              ON ECOLOGICAL                                   ......................................................... 6
  4.3 IMPACTS .......................................................................
              ON AIR ENVIRONMENT                                                                                             6
  4.4 IMPACTS .............................................................
              ON ACOUSTICENVIRONMENT                                                                                         6
  4.5 IMPACTSENVIRONMENT.....................................................
              ON RESETTLEMENT                                                                                                7
  4.6 IMPACTS ON ENGINEERINGGEOLOGICALENVIRONMENT                                      ...................................   7
  4.7 IMPACTS............................................................................
              ON PUBLIC HEALTH                                                                                               7
  4.8 IMPACTSON LANDSCAPES            ................................................................................       7
  4.9 IMPACTSLINES ONENVIRONMENT
             OF TRANSMISSION                                                     ........................................    7
  4.10 WATERCONSERVANCYASSESSMENT                        .............................................................. 7
  4.11 ENVIRONMENTRISKASSESSMENT                     ..................................................................      8

5.0 PUBLIC CONSULTATION                   ............................................................................       8

  5.1 SURVEY TIME AND PERSONNEL ......................................................................... 8
  5.2 RESULTOF PUBLIC SURVEY............................................................................... 8
  5.3 THECOMPLAINTAND REQUIREMENTSOFTHE CONSULTED OBJECTS ...................9
  5.4 INFORMATION   DISCLOSURE          ..............................................................................       9

6.0  SUBSTITUTE SCHEME COMPARISONAND SELECTION                                                          .................... 9

  6.1 ANALYSISOF SELECTION OF SITE SCHEMES......................................................                             9
  6.2 ANALYSISOFGENERAL           LAYOUT        SCHEMES OF: THE PIVOT................................                        10
  6.3 SELECTION OF WATERLEVEL SCHEMES..................................................
                                           LINE                                                                              10
  6.4 COMPARISONBETWEEN WITH AND WITHOUT .................................................                                  10

7.0 MEASURES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                                                    ...........................    10

  7.1 MEASURES  FORENVIRONMENTAL                  PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION                                    .........10

  7.2 MEASURESFORENVIRONMENTALPROTECTION INTHE STAGE OF OPER.ATI0N....14

8.0  ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT               ............................................................     16

  8.1 ENVIRONMENTMANAGEMENT  ORGANIZATIOY AND RESPOWBILITIES                                    ............16
  8.2 ENVIRONMENTTRAININGPLAN.....................................................................         17
  8.3 THELEGALFORCES ENVIRONMENTALPROTECTIONACTIOVPLAh ...........17
                    FOR

9.0  GENERAL CONCLUSION    ..........................................................................      17

 1.0 GENERAL

 This document is the summary of the environment impact assessment of the
 Cuijiaying Shipping and Hydropower Pivotal Project at the Han River, providing the
 main conclusions of the environment impact assessment and environment
 management plan of the project, including related laws, law framework, applicable
 standards, important adverse impacts on social and socio-economic environment,
 substitute scheme comparison and selection, initigating nieasure design, public
consultation procedure, and the environment management plan of the prqject. This
 Summary can be submitted to the board of executive directors of the World Bank for
 review and approval and can be provided to the environment protection authorities,
 affected groups, non-governmental organizations and wide public as a brief report too,

 1.1 Project Background
According to the principle of fiilly and reasonably utilize hydropower resources,
Chinese government planned 16-level dams in Han River truck stream and canalized
the truck stream o f HanRiver in stairs so as to fully play the comprehensive functions
of shipping, power generation, irrigation and flood control o f Han River. Among the
planned 16-level dams, there are 7 dams in Hail River in Shaanxi Province. At present,
the 2-level operation has been built in Shaanxi as well as Hubei. According to the
order from the upper to the lower, the 9-level d a m in Hubei Province are as follows:
(1) Gushan; (2) Danjiangkou (built into); (3) Wangpuzhou; (4) Xijin; (5) Cuijiaying;
(6) Yakou; (7) Nianpanshan; (8) Huajiawan and (9) Xinglong.

The Han River is the main branch of Changjiaiig River water system. with the
advantages of very good natural conditions and regional advantages of developing
water carriage and comprehensively utilizing water resources; which is listed as one
o f the main water carriage channels by Ministry o f Communications. According to the
objective conditions that Ministry of Communications regards the main water carriage
channel o f Han River by 2020 as the route goal in the third stage of Ministry o f
Coininunications and the development of Han River in stairs, Hubei Bureau o f
Communications prepared the internal river shipping development planning in 2002
and specified the construction time of each stair, namely: Xinglong in 2009,
Huajiawan in 2014, Nianpanshan in 2014, Yakou in 2017, Cuijiaying in 2009, Xinjin
in 2014 and Gushan in2012.

In view of comprehensive benefit, the reason why Hubei selected Cuijiaying as the
third largest dam in Hubei for construction is that this dam is adjacent to Xiangfan,
the second largest city in Hubei; after it i s built, it can release the contradictions in the
aspects such as irrigation, urban power supply, harbor and water level of the channel
and so on in Xiangfan.

1.2 Preparation Basis
1.2.1 World Bank Requirements
The World Bank requirements include primarily the Bank's ten safeguard policies.
including Operational Policies (OP), Best Procedure (BP), Good Practice (GP) and
Operational Directives (OD).

                                               1

Among these safeguards policies, Environinental Assessment (OP4.01) is the primary
requirements and thus will be fully applied in this report and other EA documentation.
In addition, other safeguard policies will first be screened during the EA and fully
applied if triggered by the screening. Safety o f Dams (OP/BP4.37), Natural Habitats
(OP/BP4.04), Pest Management (OP4.09) and Forestry (OPlGP4.36) will be applied
 in this Report too. Involuntary Resettlementand Cultural Property will be applied in
by two separate teams.
Since there are no project components that involve international \caterways
(OP/BP/GP7.50), indigenous people (OD4.20) or disputed areas (OPIBPICiP7.60) as
defined under OP7.60, policies related to these subjects will not be applied in the
report.

 1.2.2 National laws and regulations
 1). Environmental Protection Law of PRC;
2). Environment Impact Assessment Law of PRC:
3). Land Management Law of PRC;
4). Noise PollutionPrevention Law of PRC;
5). Air PollutionPrevention Law of PRC;
6). Water Pollution Prevention Law of PRC;
7). Solid Waste Pollution Prevention Law of PRC;
8). Water and Soil Conservation Law ofPRC;
9). Anti-flood Law o f PRC.


2.0    BRIEFINTRODUCTIONTO THE PROJECT

The Cuijiaying Shipping and Hydropower Pivotal Project is a comprehensive
application project mainly featured as shipping one and compromises to generate
hydropower with the hydropower generated to promote shipping. its normal
impounded level is 63.23~1and its corresponding reservoir volume is 285 million    1n3,
and its installed capacity is 96MW. The total capacity o f the reservoir is 10-
1.OxlOSin3,this project i s decided as Class I1 with Large (2) type scale. The installed
capacity o f the hydropower station is 50-300MW. the project class is Class 111, its
scale is middle scale; As for the integrated application water conservancy and
hydropower pivot project, the standard specifies that the highest class will govern for
the whole pivot project when classification figures belong to several different classes.
therefore, this project is classified as Class 11.

The pivot building is composed of shiplock, hydropower station, sluice gate and earth
darn. According to the pivot classification standard. permanent buildings belong to
Class 11, secondary buildings Class 111, and temporary buildings Class IV.

The pivot is situated at 17km at the downstream of Xiangfan City of HUBEI Province
with control drainage area of 13.06~10~       kin2,norinal impounded level of 63.231~1,
backwater length o f about 39.8k1n up to Xinji, and it is composed of water release
gate, dam, shiplock and powerhouse.



                                             2

 1. Water release gate
It is of RC lock-and-dam structure, designed as per Class I1 hydraulic structure, with
gate top elevation o f 66m, design flood discharge capacity of 19600iii3/sand total gate
length of 543.21~1.

2. Dam
It is of clay inclined wall grit shell structure, with the dam top elevation just tlie same
as that of water release gate, top width of 6.5111 (coiiiniunication requirements have
been considered) and total dam length of 1324m.

3. Shiplock
Its hydraulic structure i s of dock structure with loclc chamber's effective dimension of
180X 23 X 3.5111 and the design annual maximum trafficability of 1425.6~04t.  1

4. Powerhouse
I t s installed capacity is 96MW (5 power generating units) and two circuits o f 11OkV
HV lines are connectedwith the Xiangfan city power network.

Its geographical location i s shown in the attached drawing No1.


3.0 ENVIRONMENTBASELINE

3.1 PhysicalEnvironment
As located in northern monsoon climate area of subtropical zone. tlie IHan River,
enjoys abundant precipitation in spring and summer and limited precipitation in
autumn and winter. Statistics show that annual average rainfall is 700- 1300nim. The
number of days of precipitation reduces gradually to the north from the south, with
annual average precipitation days at about 120 days. and the maximum daily rainfall
reached 60 - 100 mm. Rainfall distribution is extremely uneven witliiii the year, with
the majority concentrated from May to October

Annual average evaporation is 900 - 1300 mms in tlie basin of Hail River. It is greater
in the lower reaches than in the upper reaches, greater in the river valley than in the
mountain areas,        greater in the north bank than in the southern bank. The
atmospheric pressure is lower in summer than in winter. Evaporation reaches
maximum in June or July and minimuin inJanuary. February.

Annual average temperature in the basin ranges 15-17°Cc. and 22-34°C                in July,
with extreme temperature reaching more than 43 "C in some areas. Temperature is
lowest in January, with annual average temperature at 2-4"C,              and the lowest
average at -2°C      and the extreme at -14°C. The whole basin has 220-260 days of
frost-free period on average, and there is not record o f ice coverage in the whole river.

3.2 Environment ProtectionObjects

3.2.1     Environment protection objects in the aspects of ambient air and noise
Environment protection objects in tlie aspects of ambient air and noise are Qianying


                                             3

 Team No.5 and Qianying Teain No.6 o f Panggong Township. Zhongzhou Teain No.3
 and Zhongzhou Team No.4 and Shangzhou Teain No.4 o f Dongiin Township which
 depart the dam site 400-6OOni.

 3.2.2 Protection objects o f water environment and ecological environment
 The Xiangfan city water intakes and industrial water intakes, the water quality and
 fishes and it's spawning beds o f the Xiangfan section o f the Han River are protection
 objects o f water environment and ecological environment.

3.2.3 Protection objects o f Cultural Relics
There are two cultural relics within the inundation line.

The environment protection objects are shown in Fig. 2.


3.3   Ambient Air Quality Baseline Survey

The hourly values and daily average concentrations of SO2, NO?and PMI           \iithinthe
assessment region are consistent with Class I1 o f the AMBIENT AIR QUALITY
STANDARD(GB3095-1996)' the ambient air quality baseline is good.

3.4   Acoustic Environment Quality Baseline

The monitored noise values at day time and night time within the region are consistent
with the assessment standard, the ambient noise quality o f the assessment region is
good.

3.5   Surface Water Environment Quality Baseline

The surface water quality o f the Han River main stream is ok in general and that
upstream o f mouths o f the Xiaoqing River and the Tangbai River exceed the standard
because they are polluted by their coming water from upstream, the main pollution
factors are permanganate index, BODs, NH;-N and total P.

3.6   Status of Soil Erosion
This project is located at juncture of Fancheng District and Xiangyang District o f
Xiangfan City, the project involves smaller scope. and niainl> bank terrace, The
permissible value o f soil erosion o f location area o f project i s 500t/Kni2*a.Left bank
of Pivot area of this project and Fenghuangtan beach area in central river. the soil
erosion is mainly mired erosion, and only a few slight erosion in bank slope; bank
slope o f right bank i s relatively steeper, moderate erosion, and the surface relief o f
terrace is gently, mainly mired erosion; the earth material field is located at gentle
woodland, soil erosion is slight erosion; the rock inaterial field is grass brushland,
steeper slope, moderate erosion. In general, the state o f water and soil conservation o f
project area is relative better. and primary soil erosion is few.

3.7   Survey on Cultural Sites
At the end o f June 2004, Hubei Cultural Relics Archaeological Exploitation Institute
organized the second investigation based on the first investigation. Through the

                                             4

second investigation, it was found that some of tlie cultural relics determined by the
first investigation were not in accordance with tlie requirement of cultural relics
 protection condition of this project. Therefore, the cultural relics in tlie dam area and
the inundation area were readjusted and checked again. Two cultural sites \cere found
 in the water saving reservoir area of Cuijiaying Shipping and Hydropower Pivotal
 Project, which were distributed in tlie grade one and grade two mesa at tlie right bank
of the river. The types of the cultural sites were underground ancient relics and
graves.

3.8 Situationsof Socio-economy
Xiangfan has a history of more than 2800 years. and has been developed into the
national hub of communications, a new developing indiistFy and regional Itel city The
territory area 326 of urban district of Xiangfan reaches 326.26kni'. with a population
of 5,77 3,800 (By the end of 2002).

In recent years, Xiangfan implements reforms concerning science and education with
investment spurring, export-oriented economic development strategy that drives
economy to harvest great achievement in economy and all respects. Its GDP reached
45.62 billion in 2002. up by about 8. 5%, agricultural gross output value was 16.501
billion Yuan, up by 1. 2%; The whole city completed investment in fixed assets to
total 9.678 billion Yuan, 10% in increase annually. disposable income and net income
for peasant per capita totaled 6506 and 2564 Yuan respectively. with ann~ialrise at
7.22% and 3. 43%.


4.0 ENVIRONMENTIMPACTS

4.1   Impacts on Water Environment

The disposed waste water from daily life has little impact on IHaiijiang River. tlie
sediment-flushed waste water in sand-stone system during the period o f construction
contains high concentration SS. It would increase tlie concentration SS of water
within backward position 1OOOni during the periods of middle water and low water
without disposal. So depositing pool is planned to deal with tlie polluted water of
which has little impacts on water environment.

The analysis of influence on water temperature shows that tlie water temperature
structure of the reservoir area during the operation period is of mixed type. and the
natural water temperature will not be altered by the construction of the dam. The
natural characteristics of water temperature of tlie river channels can basically be
maintained within the reservoir area.

The navigating and generating electricity of the Pro-jecthardly has impacts on water
quality, and its polluted source mainly comes from water for dail) life after the
accomplishment, which has small portion in winter compared with Haii.jiang River's
runoff. Ifwaste water from factory and daily life is disposed to accord with standard.

 running into Hanjiang River, it will impact on water quality of Haii.jiaiig River within
 limited range of discharging spot, and can't change the degree o f water quality in
 Hanjiang River.

 The minimum release flow of the Cuijiaying Reservoir is 490m'/s, which can meet
 the water consumption requirements o f production.             living and ecological
 environment.

 4.2   Impacts on EcologicalEnvironment

 The Project will decrease the quantity o f local farm. matte agricultural environment
 into water environment changing original function.

 Animals in this group are wader of water birds, passerine birds in grassland, beasts
 looking for food, snakes and lizards. Norinall>, seen beasts are weasels and
 ferret-badgers. There are a lot of wader animals of the reservoir area. Among the
 affected animals, wader animals that move about river beach and shallon! water area
 are influenced seriously. The inundations o f sandbanlt and river-beach are permanent
 and nonreversible. The newly-formed banks are mostly steep without forming shallow
 water area. Such cannot substitute the previous beach and shallow water area in the
 river valley, which means that the wader animals have lost their habitats and have to
 move to other places.

 The fish population, which is accustomed to spacious water, increases greatl), after the
,accomplishment of the Cuijiaying Pivot. Though the construction o f the Dam will
 have bad effects on the breeding and developing of economic fish in the Hanjiang
 River's backward position, it can be beneficial to fish's living through the winter and
 some fish's fattening. As time goes, they will have gradually adapted to this changing
 environment, and also succeeded in reproduction. ingestion. growth and living
through the winter in Middle and lower reaches o f Hanjiang River below the Dam,
 and a certain population will have respectively survived.

4.3    Impacts on Air Environment

 Impacts o f the project on ambient air happens mainly during construction period,
because the construction area is far away from the surrounding villages, the
construction will have impacts on the constructors and their residential area, so the
protection to the work of the workers in stone pit should be strengthened.

4.4    Impacts onAcoustic Environment
According to the construction plan of the Project, the sensitive point that is nearest to
the noise source is Qianying Teain No.6 on the right bank, about 400ni from the
construction site and within the construction zone. Based on the analogy analysis o f
the predictive values of fixed noise source, nighttime construction will possibly cause
excessive noise value in the sensitive point. In other area. construction in daytime or
nighttime will not have environmental impacts.



                                            6

4.5   Impacts on ResettlementEnvironment
The issues of migrating resettlement of project construction are somewhat sensitive.
 For the sake of project construction, some people have to give LIP the existing quiet
 life and reestablish their livelihood; some people have to newly engage in land
development for agricultural production. The iss~ieso f migrating resettlement will
cause some negative impacts on the social environment if not properlq resolved.
Therefore, it is required to thoroughly carry out the plans for niigrating resettlement
and do well the works, such as settle the problem of water supply in the migrating
areas and the grain ration for the migrants during the transition period. Such will help
to acceleratethe project construction.

4.6   Impacts on EngineeringGeologicalEnvironment

It is preliminarily estimated that the leaking volume is not too mucli.The level near
the dam site will be greatly raised. wind and waves may cause impacts on bank slope
stability. The water levels o f obstruction section of the river course all never went
beyond the native riverbed, and the geological environment didn't change a lot, so the
conducing earthquake o fthe reservoir will not exceed the basic intensity.

4.7   Impacts on Public Health
After water retaining ofthe reservoir, the project will not have adverse impacts on the
people's health. On the other hand, operation o f the project will promote the local
economy and living standard. The cultural information exchanges will be also
enhanced, People's living ideas will also undergo changes, which will make them
attach to the good living habits. Therefore, the bad factors that affect people`s health
will disappear gradually and the occurrence of various epideiiiic diseases will be
controlled.

4.8   Impacts on Landscapes

For the bare field that caused by digging and taking soil. should take ecosystem
measures such as planting trees, growing grass etc. to recover its original nature
landscape.The developments of the big dam can't create harmful affects to the closest
nature landscape o f Mount Yan, let alone other ones or scenery and famous spots. The
engineering design should not only be considered to satisfji its usage function, but
also be proceeded the special landscape designs as a new scenery from the esthetic
angle, after the engineering being set up, it can add a new bright scenerj line for the
Xiangfan City.

4.9   Impacts of Transmissionlines on Environment
The places where the electric transmission line passes are mostly city roads. No
primitive forest and water source forest are identified, or any rare and endangered
anirnals and plants. Except for some occupation of land, it will not have serious
impacts on the environment.

4.10   Water ConservancyAssessment
Foundation excavation of permanent building o f Pivot prqject 330.80 X 104111',

excavation o f temporary works 963.41 X 1041n3.total excavation earthwork 1294.21 X
 1 04m'. bacltfilling o f project 197.04 X 104111' (compaction earthwork). total waste
earthwork caused by project 1016.33 X 104in3.In which. 937.25 X 104ini is piled up
centrally in excavation waste dump o f left banlt: 79.08 X 1O4111' naste slag caused by
exploitation o f material yard will be used for land leveling o f excavation surface then
and there. The waste slag is mainly from excavation o f pennanent works and open
diversion channel.
The soil erosion amount of this project during construction is 141.32X 10". soil
erosion amount during operation 0.5632 inillion t. and gross amount o f soil erosion of
forecasting period 197.64X 104t.

4.11 EnvironmentRiskAssessment
The main environment risks o f the pivot are geological accidents o f dam brealting and
earthquake; The main accidents during operation are collision. stranding, fire and
shipwreck accident. the proportion o f serious accident o f shipping that have serious
impacts accounts for about 2 . 5 1~OP4/ao f the total numbers o f accidents.


5.0   PUBLIC CONSULTATION

5.1   Survey time and personnel
Duringthe preparation o f this Outlines in December 2003, there were a total of 580
people participated in the consultation exercise. including those directlj affected by
the project in the area as villages, institutions and enterprises. as well as local
environmental, tourist, forest, garden, water conservancy, agriculture. forest. and
coininunication authorities.

The inquiry and consultation of this project in the period of report was carried out in
April 2004. There are about 2000 persons participating in the consultation and the
informal discussion. The inquiry modes are public meetings, public opinion survey
and informal discussion. All o f 2000 persons conie from the areas affected by this
project.

5.2  Result of public survey

With carrying out the work o f the construction o f the project in initial stage, the
panned project has been understood by inore and inore people. In the persons
surveyed, about 98.8% agree the construction o f the project after discussion and
exchange o f ideas.

The ones who know this policy account for 58.8%. the ones \vho does not I<now the
policy accounts for 41.2%; the ones who want to be resettled on the local account for
87.3% and the ones who want to leave the local only account for 12.7%. no one
disobey the policy o f reinoval and resettlement.

Most o f the public (accounting for 81.7%) think the influence on the water
environment from the construction o f the project is the largest. 68.1% o f them think

                                             8

the construction o f the project will have great influences on the ecological
environment, 1.1% of them think the construction o f the project will bring about a
certain noise influence and 0.2% o f them think it will have influence on the
atmosphere. As to the measuresthat shall be taken to slow down the influences on the
environment, 85.7% o f them think the measure o f improving it in limited period is a
very good measure; 34.1% o fthem require to strengthen management.

5.3    The complaintand requirementsof the consultedobjects

It is found in public inquiry and survey that the public near the project care most for
the purchased land, inundated land and the compensation for removing the house and
all o f them require that the regulations of the policy be strictly carried out for
reasonable compensation so that they can benefit from the project. The villagers in the
affected area who accept the interview, not only support the Construction o f the
project, but also care more for the problems of inundation and resettlement as well as
the estimation o f the influences on the geological aspect. firstlj. the) are afraid that
after the project is built and the houses and lands are inundated. their lives in the
future will be influenced; secondly, they are afraid the collapse o f the reservoir bank
will further damage the lands on which they rely for existence; therefore. they hope
the related authorities give great attention to the estimation and the protection
measures.

5.4    InformationDisclosure

During the first round o f public consultation, a simple data sheet was prepared and
passed around to the affected people. In the second round, the decision-making
schemes of the project (EIA report and RAP) will be placed in the public libraries in
the Xiangfan city. Copies of these documents will also be placed in selected
townships to be more readily accessed by the rural public. The objective is for the
affected public to understand the EA process, engineering components, results o f
impact assessments and mitigation measures planned. The public will be further
invited to express their concerns and opinions on EA results, which will be included
in the EMP where appropriate.


6.0    SUBSTITUTE SCHEME COMPARISON AND SELECTION

6.1 Analysis of Selection of Site Schemes
The arrangements o f the project at the upper and the lower site are similar, and so do
shipping, operation and construction conditions. The engineering geological
conditions of the upper site is a little better than those o f the lower site, the quality o f
bill o f the civil works are relatively large; but the quantity of removal for construction
o f the dormitory area of Hubei Pharinaceutical Factory is large, it is difficult and the
expense is high, the total static investment in the project is RMB 12,460.000 more
than the one of the lower site; furthermore, the indexes of water power utilization o f
the upper site is a little lower than those o f the lower site. Through comprehensive
analysis, the lower site will be the recommended site in this stage.


                                               9

6.2 Analysis of General Layout Schemes of the Pivot
 Both schemes can meet the need of discharging tlood. As to tlie shipping condition.
 Scheme I is better than that o f Scheme 11. After taking engineering nieasures and
optimizing the opening and closing of the water release gate. both schemes can meet
the need of shipping. There are some differences in operation and construction
conditions as well as the engineering geology and power generation benefit. Scheme I
 is arranged compactly, and continuous arrangement of tlie water release gate and earth
dam is better for construction and convenient for operation, management and
maintenance. The geological conditions of the sliiplock are good. tlie quantity o f bill
and the investment will be saved: through comprehensive analysis. Scheme I will be
the recommended scheme o fthe arrangemento f pivotal project in this stage.

6.3    Selectionof Water Level Line Schemes
From the analysis it can be seen that the higher tlie water level is, tlie larger the
influences on social and ecologic environment are: in order to reduce the
contradiction o f many people with little land after tlie reservoir begins water storage;
and the larger the protection project for the inundated land is: while the lower the
water level is, the connection between backwater and the approach channel at the
lower reaches is poor, it is necessary to improve it. in this way. the influence on
surface water and aquatic organism will be strengthened. the high water level scheme
can make the installed capacity and electric quantity o f Cuijiaying project be
maximum, the unit electric energy and unit Itilonatt benefit index be tlie best. the
unconnection o f the shipping within the reservoir area be shortest and tlie secondary
improvement bill o f quantities be least.

6.4    ComparisonbetweenWith and Without

After Cuijiaying Shippingand Hydropower Pivot is built, it has bad influences on the
ecological environment, inundation, the stability o f the bank. aquatic organism, air,
noise and sand aggradations; it only has positive influences on sight and tlie social
environment in the site area; however, if it is not built. the transportation pressure of
the highway and the noise along the highway will be increased and the iiitluences on
the air environment will increase. It only in view o f tlie enviroiiinental angle. building
it will bring about more environmental problems than not building it. However, in
light of the comprehensive social development need. if enougli attention is given to
the possible environmental problems in construction period and proper measures are
taken to make the environmental influences reduce to tlie lowest degree, building it is
very significant.


7.0 MEASURES FOR ENVIRONMENTALPROTECTION

7.1 Measures for Environmental Protectionduring Construction
7.1.1 Measures for water quality protection

The discharging opening shall be arranged near tlie place in I-laiij iang River as much

as possible where the middle thread flow speed is relatively larger. the density of the
suspended matters inthe waste water in the foundation pit can meet the corresponding
discharging standard after standing for 2 hours. Furthermore, the standing time shall
be prolonged properly in low flow season or when the strength o f excavating the
foundation pit and pouring concrete is relatively larger, and tlie neutralization agent
shall be poured into it properly depending on the pH value of tlie waste water so as to
ensure SS reaches up to the discharge standard of 701ng/l to reduce the pollution
influences on the water quality o f Han River from tlie drainage ofthe foundation pit.

One sandy and rock materials processing system mjill be respectively arranged for this
project at each bank ofthe site. In order to protect tlie water quality o f Haiijiang River,
the waste water discharged from the systems shall be treated before being discharged
(SS shall reach up to the discharge standard of 7Onig/l). the waste water in the sandy
and rock materials processing system at each bank of the site will be mainly
pre-treated in sand basin and then enter the reaction basin and sedimentation tank for
treatment.

Septic tank will be arranged in construction sites and the secondary embedded sewage
treatment station shall be arranged in the nianageiiient station, in this way, the
domestic sewage froin the construction sites will be discharged to the secondary
treatment station after pre-treatment in septic tank. and then it will be discharged after
meeting Grade Istandard in Comprehensive Discharging Standard of Senage through
secondary treatment.

The ship for construction and the ship coming and going shall not directl], discharge
the oily sewage in the construction river section of this project and it is necessary for
them to install and use oil-water separator according to related specification so as to
ensure the soil density in the oily sewage from the ship is less than IOnig/L after
treatment by the separator before it is allowed to discharge.

In order to protect the water quality of Hanjiang River from being influenced by the
construction activities, any activity related to tlie harmful water qualit\ shall be
strictly prohibited in construction period, for example, the activity o f directly
discharging industrial solid waste. domestic garbage. ordure. production waste
drainage and domestic sewage into the water body.

7.1.2 Prevention and improvement measuresfor atmospheric pollution

In order to reduce the healthy influences on tlie workers and constructors in
construction sites from the dust, the transportation o f tlie materials for construction
shall adopt airtight mode as milch as possible; the air-tightness of the machinery for
transportation shall be checked and maintained.

The construction sites and the roads for transporting the materials for construction
shall be watered to restrain the dust; as to the watering frequency and the amount,


                                            11

they will be determined depending on the weather and the road condition: the air
 quality o f the surrounding environment o f construction site and the roads for
 construction shall be protected.


 In order to avoid the influences on the constructors and worlters from the dust in the
 construction sit, the mixing plant shall be provided with dust collection I-icilities;
 furthermore, the management and maintenance of tlie devices shall be strengthened.

 7.1.3 Prevention and improvement measures for noise pollution

 In order to reduce the damage on constructors from the noise o f the devices for
construction, the devices with high noise shall be far away from tlie construction sites.
As to the selection o f the devices for construction. it's better to select the devices and
process with low noise; at the same time, the maintenance o f the devices shall be
strengthened; as to the devices with large vibration. the vibration reduction engine
base shall be adopted.

The acoustical damper shall be provided at the air intake and outtake of the fixed
equipment and the machinery such as excavator and transport truck; as to the
machinery with high noise, the vibration reduction and noise reduction facilities shall
be installed, if necessary, the temporary simple acoustical barrier shall be arranged
around the machinery with high noise.

The construction time shall be strictly organized and controlled and it is prohibited to
carry out construction at night with the machinerj with high noise. The construction
time o f the project shall be strictly controlled in 8: 00- 12: 00 in tlie morning and
14:OO-2O:OO    in the afternoon.


7.1.4 Protection measures for ecological environment

the underwater excavation worlcs shall not be carried out in the spawning season of
aquatic organism. the worlts shall not be carried out in May and June as much as
possible.


The constructors are forbidden to directly throw the various wastes into the water
body, especially the poisonous and harmful matters.

The excavation waste dump shall be selected above the flood inundation line: the slag
retaining wall, intercepting ditch and trench drain shall be provided around the
excavation waste dump to avoid the pollution o f tlie water quality and the influences
on the inhabitation environment o f the aquatic organism.

All plants in the reservoir area shall be cleaned up before water storage; the fruit trees
that can be transplanted shall be transplanted as niucli as possible; other\\ ise, all o f

them will be cut down; the trees that is cut down shall be use as much as possible;
otherwise. they shall be burned on the site and the woody ashes shall be used as
fertilizer.

 7.1.5 Measures for public health

Do well in the sanitary quarantine inspection work for the constructors; make medical
examination to understand the healthy conditions and germ carrjiig situation o f the
constructors before thein enter the construction sites: control tlie occurrence and
extension o f the diseases.

Perform sanitary monitoring and control system, supervise and manage the food
entering the construction sites to ensure good food sources and food processing.

Monitor and control the drinking water for tlie constructors, and carry out
sedimentation and sterilization before use.

The domestic garbage in construction site shall be collected and treated in form o f
centralization, if necessary, the special refuse wagon shall be provided to transport the
domestic garbage to the urban garbage treatment site for treatment.

7.1.6 Treatment measures o f solid waste

Since the construction period o f this project is long. various solid wastes produced at
the construction sites and pivotal projects in the construction and production process
shall be properly treated and it is forbidden to throw them randomly. The domestic
wastes such as the wasted concrete block and parts o f the devices shall be piled in the
form o f centralization and finally they shall be buried at the place near the
construction site that will not influence the sight. As to the domestic garbage in
construction period, the garbage can and garbage bag shall be arranged to collect it,
then it shall be transported to the urban garbage treatment site for treatment through
the cooperation between the owner and the local sanitary and environmental
departments.


7.1.7 Measures for conservation o f soil and water

Engineering protection measures will be taken for the inlet channel and outlet channel
o f the shiplock and the water release gate; as to tlie upstream slope o f tlie earth dam at
tlie left bank, dry paving will be adopted; as to tlie downstream slope grass protection
will be adopted. Besides protecting the safety of tlie prqject, these engineering
measures and plant measures can effectively protect tlie exposed area of tlie soil
texture of the buildings and prevent the occurrence of new soil erosion.


The excavation waste dump will be arranged in the bank and it is use for tlie slag. The

excavation waste dump occupies the dry land in tlie ban. In order to improve the slag
surface o f the excavation waste dump, the 3011-1tliiclt cultivated horizon o f the surface
layer shall be peeled off in pieces before abandoning tlie slag and be piled in the
excavation waste dump in the form o f centralization: furthermore. the teniporary
protection measures shall be taken to prevent the nutrient from loss.


7.1.8 Measures to slow down the bad influences on social environment

According to the regulation o f cultural relics protection of tlie related departments,
before construction, the negotiation with tlie local cultural relics protection
departments shall be carried out firstly. Mark the place in advance where tlie cultural
relics niay be buried to protect them. Once the cultural relics are found in construction,
the construction shall be stopped ininiediately to protect the site and then inform the
cultural relics protection departments and the construction shall not be carried out
again before the cultural relics protection departments take corresponding measures.


Furthermore, as to the existing cultural relics in tlie reservoir area that niay be
inundated. necessary excavation and treatment measures shall be taken before
construction according to the opinions o f the cultural relics protection departments.


The water catchment facilities in the reservoir area take bailing in Haiijiang River as
the main and the construction o f the hydropower project will not intluence it;
contrarily, it will play a role o f stabilize the water catchment point. As to tlie existing
drainage facilities, since the purification condition o f water quality will become weak
after the project is completed, therefore, it is necessary to intercept various blow-off
lines to protect the water quality o f Hanjiang River and send the sewage to Xiangfan
Sewage Treatment Plant unifornily. At the same time. tlie construction o f tlie planed
sewage treatment factory shall be carried out in ahead ofthe construction o f tlie main
works in the reservoir area as much as possible so as to be good to collect the
pollutants in reservoir area and protect the water quality in Haiijiang River.

7.2   Measures for environmental protection in the stage of operation

7.2.1 Protection measures for aquatic environment

(1)Measures o f preventing oil seepage o f the pivot
The unit selected shall not seep the oil; at the same time. the seeped oil collecting pit
and accident treatment basin shall be arranged in tlie worltsliops: meanwhile, the
oil-water separator shall be provided to treat various seepages and tlie oily sewage.


(2)Treatinent o f the domestic sewage in management station
Secondary sewage treatment system shall be provided in the management station. The
sewage in management station will be discharged into the domestic sewage treatment
station after pretreatment in septic tank; as to the secondary treatment o f tlie sewage,
it will adopt the embedded domestic sewage treatment unit.



                                               14

 (3)Treatinent o f waste water from the ship
 Strengthen the control over the domestic sewage and oily sewage; the ship shall be
 provided with necessary domestic sewage treatment facilities and oil-water ceparator
 according to the requirements o f the related authorities: it is forbidden to discharge
 sewage from the ship in the reservoir area.

 7.2.2 Treatment measures o f solid waste

 As to the domestic garbage from various ships, the storage cabinet shall be provided
 on the ships; the domestic garbage shall be collected in the form o f centralization and
then will be sent to the garbage treatment site on the bank for treatment.

The domestic waste in the management station will be collected in the gaitbage can
and then will be transported to the urban garbage site for treatment.

7.2.3 Ecological environment


(1) Terrestrial ecological protection
Strengthen the construction o f ecological protection forest system around the reservoir,
effectively inanage the various plants in the reservoir bank and the green area; if the
dead tree is found, another tree shall be replanted in time.

As to the production migration area: control well the developnient scale o f the land,
prevent the excessive development o f the farniland in the reservoir area and prohibit
destroying the existing woodland.

Recover the vegetation in the wash land and put an end to opening up wasteland on
the wash land so as to prevent the landslip and collapse o f the river bank.

(2) Protection o f animals
Strengthen the protection o f the wild aniinals in the reservoir area and arrange
personnel to protect them to prevent wide animals from being porches for.

Since the bottoinland at the river valley i s inundated, the kinds and the amount o f the
birds in the reservoir area will inevitably reduce. If the measures o f building artificial
watersplash zone are adopted and the sites for the birds for activities and seeking for
food are increased, the influence degree will be reduced.

It is necessary to organize people to patrol for protection so as to avoid any animal
hunting in the chaos o f the animals or excessive disturbing. This will k ! p IO retain
inore animals to live in the reservoir area.

(3) Protection o f fishes
It is suggested by the experts that a large number of fishes that eat the phytoplanl<ton


                                            15

shall be put into the reservoir. especially the local fishes. The local kinds mainly
 include Yichang dolphinfishes, Makou fish, bream. crucian and so on; in light of the
kinds weifed in the present stage, they are the main kinds in this area.

They can purify the water quality to keep the amount of the fishes in a stable level;
otherwise, the fishes in the reservoir will reduce rapidly and it will influence the
ecological water environment.

Fishway will reduce the influence to migrating fish.

7.2.4 Conservation of water and soil
The repairs o f the facilities of the main works and conservation o f water and soil. as
well the nursing o f plants shall be carried out;

It is to enhancethe afforestation ofthe office and residential areas.


8.0 ENVIRONMENTMANAGEMENT

8.1 Environment Management Organization and Responsibilities
The environmental management for the project shall be conducted by the Project
Office o f Hanjiang Shipping and Hydropower Development Co. Ltd., under which,
the Project Environmental Protection Department shall be established and charged by
specially-assigned persons. The responsibilities of the Department include the
following aspects:

The department is administerially under the leadership of the Project Office and
professionally    under the guidance of the provincial and prefectural (city)
environmental protection bureaus, being responsible for submitting the inonthlq report
on environmental management and compiling the statements o f environmental
monitoring during construction period.

It will supervise the contractors to carry out the pollution preventive measures,
participate in the works o f project supervisor. It can issue warning notice and report to
the Project Office if the contractors are found to violate environmental protection
regulations or fail to effectively implement the poll~itioiipreventive measures. The
department shall help to deal with the problems in case pollution accidents occur.


It will assist local governmental environmental protection department to establish new
monitoring sections and bank monitoring points, as well help to ~indertaltetraining for
the managerial and monitoring staff.

According to the environmental problems found during the construction period, it will
put forward suggestions for environmental protection measures during operational
period to local environmental protection and navigation departments.

                                             16

 8.2  Environment Training Plan

 All personnel including the administrative staff of the project office and construction
 workers have to receive environmental protection training at least one time. Key
 environmental administrative and monitoring personnel must go throiigli the pre-post
 technical training for a period o f 1-3 months.

 8.3 The Legal Forces for Environmental ProtectionAction Plan
 Environmental protection action plan is regarded as the guide for construction units to
 carry out the environmental protection measures. It is also the basis for environniental
 competent departments to inspect and approve the works of enviroiiniental protection.
Therefore, the environmental protection action plan must have the same legal forces
with the contract and bidding documents.

 When the project employer intends to invite public bidding o f the project construction,
the environinental protection action plan shall be treated as one of the basic bidding
documents sold to the bidders. It must be included iii the bidding documents. o f which,
necessary charges required by various environ~nentalprotection measures can be
listed in the construction budget.

When the project employer examines the bidding documents, it must consider the
commitment specified in the EAP as one o f the basis for document examination.
When signing construction contract, it must include EAP as one oftlie works included
in the contract. It should clarify that EAP is one of the basis for approld o f the
project quality, any environmental losses due to the failure in fiiltilling EAP shall be
borne by the contractor. The personnel in charge o f the Project Oftice ni~istacquire to
well know the significance of EAP before prqject commencement and shall be
responsible for making explanation to contractors.


The project supervisor must treat EAP as one of the basis for the supervisory works.
Any works that have not fiilfilled the environmental protection measures cannot be
approved.

The contractors must assign special personnel to be                responsible for the
implementation o f the EAP, formulate the alternatives of EAP iniplenientation. All
measures specified inthe EAP must be carried out thoroughly according the schedule.


9.0   GENERAL CONCLUSION


The project will greatly speed up the economic development of the Haiijiang River
drainage area. This project, based on the policy o f `electricity supporting navigation`.
has reinarkable economic and social benefits.

The construction and operation will bring about some disadvantageous inI1uences 011
the environment. For instance. the construction   \IiII damage the vegetation. worsen


                                            17

soil erosion and bring about noise and dust pollution to the environment. In addition,
the sanitary wastes and factory sewage of the Construction area will pollute the
accepting water body; due to the changes o f hydrological conditions. the project
during operational period will alter the living conditions o f fkh and the like aquatic
life or even lead to the changes of the population of species o f aquatic life: the self
purifying capacity o f the water body will be weakened during the operation period,
which is not good for diffusing the contamination in the sewage. However. even with
the above disadvantageous factors on the existing environment, the prediction of
environmental impacts indicates that the disadvantageous influences o f the project on
the environment can be minimized to the acceptable limits as long as the measures for
environmental protection and control mentioned herewith in the Report are carried
out.

The construction unit shall reinforce the work o f environmental managenient during
construction period, intensify environmental protection education o f the construction
team, make close supervision, and advocate civiIized construction. The contractor
shall make specific provisions in the contract and promise the above pollution control
measures during construction period, as well as draw up rigorous punishment for
breach o fthe contract.

According to the relevant environmental protection specification, design paper, design
notes and other design documents, construction contract and bid document and tender
document, contract for construction environmental inspection and control and bid
document, the construction control unit shall draw up the environmental control plan.
and strictly abide by it.

Strengthen the work o f environmental monitoring during construction period, and
carry out regular or irregular environmental monitoring plans.

In the appraisal, it's admitted that the project plan has taken environmental protection
into consideration, and the plans designed are economically and technically
practicable with high operability. Carrying out the environmental protection plan as
well as the countermeasures proposed in the report will bring the adverse impacts on
environment well under control.

In general, Cuijiaying navigation hydropower pivot prqject is practicable I'roin the
view o f environmental protection.




                                             18

