Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  31831 
Project Name 
CN-5th Inland Waterways 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Ports, waterways and shipping (55%); Renewable energy (45%) 
Project ID 
P085333 
Borrower(s) 
P.R. CHINA 
Implementing Agency 
Hubei Provincial Communications Department 
No. 428, JianShe Ave. 
Hankou 
Hubei 
China 
430030 
Tel: (027) 8346-0753 Fax: (027) 8386-0754 
projectoffice@hbjt.gov.cnn
Ministry of Communications 
China 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD   
Date PID Prepared 
February 15, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 20, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 16, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
In China’s central and southern provinces large navigable rivers link many of the major cities.  
This creates exceptionally favorable conditions for inland water transport. Today inland 
waterways carry roughly 10 percent of freight in tons while, reflecting the length of the main 
navigable waterways, 27 percent of the freight ton-km are performed by inland waterways. On 
some of the rivers’ upper sections, limited water depth prevents safe year-round access by 
vessels of more than 50 tons capacity.  It is possible, at reasonable cost and with moderate 
environmental impact, to deepen such navigation channels to allow greater penetration upstream. 
A
healthy return on investment can be achieved by developing at the same time the hydropower 
and water storage potential. 
 
Economic development of the central and western provinces will depend on improving their 
transport sectors in order to lower transport costs for coal, minerals and the manufacture of 
industrial and consumer goods. Two major rivers cross Hubei Province: the Yangtze and the 
Han. Coal and minerals, required by the Xiangfan industrial zone, are extracted upstream along 
the Han River in Shaanxi Province. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project has two development objectives. 
Page  2
2
·
Waterway users along the Han River will benefit from cost-effective, predictable, 
and increased transport capacity. 
·
The Xiangfan City Area and the Tangdong Farmland Region will use sustainable 
hydropower and water resources. 
 
The project will produce the following outputs. 
·
Navigation
–
The proposed lock and 33-km long reservoir will accommodate 
1,000-ton capacity vessels. Currently the largest vessels that can navigate this section full 
year-round are 100-150 ton-capacity boats). 
·
Power
–
About 405 GWh of hydropower per year will be provided to Xiangfan 
City. 
·
Water resources
-
Water will be provided for domestic, industrial, and agricultural 
uses in the Xiangfan region. 
·
Flood control
–
The Cuijiaying dam will add its reservoir to the storage capacity 
along the Han River for attenuating flood surges during the rainy season. 
 
The following key result indicators have been selected: 
 
·
Navigation
–
Efficient operation of the lock will be determined by the time taken by a 
vessel to transit the lock, and availability of the lock. 
·
Power
-
Efficiency in construction of electric generating capacity will be measured by the 
cost per kW capacity installed and the cost per kWh delivered, compared with the 
generating units of similar size elsewhere in China.  Efficiency in operation and 
maintenance of the powerhouses will be measured by the hours per year when the turbines 
are available for use. 
 
The 2003 – 2005 China Country Assistance Strategy stresses the Bank's support to China’s 
making two historic transitions --from a rural, agricultural society to an urban, industrialized 
society, and from a centrally planned economy to a more globally integrated market-based 
economy. To this end its main goals are to: 
·
improve the business environment and help accelerate China’s transition to a 
market economy; 
·
address the needs of the poorer and disadvantaged people and regions (mainly 
central and western provinces); and  
·
facilitate a more environmentally sustainable development process. 
 
The Chinese government has included this project in its borrowing program from the World 
Bank because it exemplifies the CAS goals in a region that is predominantly rural but 
undergoing rapid urbanization and industrialization. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The province of Hubei, in the center of China, wishes to build a multi-purpose dam and shiplock 
on the Han River 17 km downstream from the city of Xiangfan.  This navigation and power 
generation complex is known as Cuijiaying. 
Page  3
3
A
comprehensive flood control, navigation, water resources, and hydropower plan for the Han 
River, that includes the Cuijiaying complex, was first developed in 1956.  It has been revised 
several times since, and is expected to be completed by 2020, providing the Han River region of 
Hubei and Shaanxi with a key inland waterway transport route. The proposed development at 
Cuijiaying is a step in this long-term development plan that includes the construction of 16 
navigation complexes, nine in Hubei and seven in Shaanxi. Two of the nine navigational 
complexes in Hubei, at Danjiangkou and Wangfuzhou, have been completed. The others are 
scheduled for completion in stages by 2017. 
 
Hubei provincial government gives priority to construction of Cuijiaying because of the urgent 
need for reliable sources of electricity.  In recent years consumption has grown rapidly in pace 
with Xiangfan’s industrial development and urban expansion.  The power company has had 
difficulty keeping up with demand and needs to expand generating capacity urgently if power 
shortages are to be avoided. 
 
Forecasts developed for the feasibility study on Cuijiaying show that traffic on the Han River 
will be most dense between Xiangfan and Wuhan.  More than 90% of the waterway traffic on the 
Hubei section of the Han River will start from Xiangfan.  From the viewpoint of traffic flow, it 
would appear that either Cuijiaying or the Xinglong dam, about midway between Xiangfan and 
Wuhan, should have priority in terms of timing of development over the other steps. 
 
The Cuijiaying reservoir will also serve an important purpose in bringing water to a large area of 
irrigated farmland north of Xiangfan.  Home to some 3 million people, it has in recent years 
suffered drought and water shortages, as the main river feeding the area has begun to dry up.  
That river --the Tang-- flows into the Han at Xiangfan, and the Cuijiaying reservoir will back up 
the Tang River far enough to ‘feed’ year-round an existing pumping station and thence an 
existing network of distribution channels.  
 
4. Description 
 
The project has two components: 
Cuijiaying Navigation and Power Complex (total US$192.4 million, IBRD US$98.5 million) 
The main component consists of: 
·
Construction of the shiplock, dam, and power station, and installation of auxiliary 
facilities.  The shiplock will be near the west bank of the river and the powerhouse 
toward the east bank.  The shiplock will be a Class III in accordance with the Chinese 
lock classification and capable of accommodating vessels up to 1,000 ton capacity 
with an effective chamber of 180 x 23 x 3.5m.  The dam will provide a weighted 
average head of 6.1m (design head 4.8m).  The power station will have an installed 
capacity of 88 MW (6 bulb turbines each of 14.67 MW capacity) with a mean annual 
generation of 413 GWh.  The power plant will be connected to the grid for Xiangfan 
Prefecture at two transformer stations (one 220-kV, the other 110-kV), each less than 
1
km
from the dam. 
 
Page  4
4
·
Reservoir bank protection: The banks of the reservoir will be strengthened to ensure 
their stability, thereby protecting the adjoining farmlands and village settlements from 
flooding.  In all 30 km of embankment will be reinforced;  the total area of slope 
protection will be 19.3 ha. 
 
Institutional Development (US$5.4 million, IBRD US$1.0 million) 
 
The systems, institutions, and processes needed to implement the Cuijiaying complex need 
strengthening.  The project will assist through technical assistance programs in the following 
areas: 
·
Capacity building will be provided to the project implementing agencies through 
training and study tours ($960,000) 
·
Studies will be carried out on (a) promoting the waterway sector in Hubei Province 
(US$120,000), (b) logistics planning for Hubei Province (US$240,000), and (c) 
power pricing and management (US$150,000). 
·
Equipment (vehicles, hardware and software) to support project management (US$3.8 
million) 
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
P.R. China 
98 
IBRD 100 
Total
198 
6. Implementation 
 
Executing Agency 
The project will be implemented by the Hubei Provincial Communications Department (HPCD). 
HPCD has created a dedicated company, the Hubei Han River Navigation Development 
Company (HHRND), to implement and manage the construction of the Cuijiaying complex. 
HHRND’s key staff come from HPCD. 
 
The World Bank-financed Project Office (WBFPO), an HPCD department that has successfully 
managed four on-going World Bank transport projects, is responsible for coordinating project 
preparation and will remain the Bank’s main counterpart during implementation.  Similar 
arrangements have proven effective under the previous projects.
 
Funds Flow 
The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank into the project special account to be set up and 
managed by the Hubei Provincial Finance Bureau (HPFB) to HPCD and then to HHRND and 
finally to contractors or suppliers. 
 
The loan will be to the People’s Republic of China through its Ministry of Finance (MOF), and 
on-lending agreements will be signed between MOF and the government of Hubei Province 
Page  5
5
through HPFB. The loan will be disbursed using traditional techniques and not based on project 
management reports, in accordance with a general agreement between the Bank and MOF. 
 
Project Management Activities 
 
Project Implementation Plan. 
WBPO has prepared a project implementation plan, which the 
Bank has reviewed. 
 
Procurement. 
An institutional assessment conducted during pre-appraisal shows that adequate 
skills are available to manage the procurement operations.  A procurement plan has been 
developed as part of the Project Implementation Plan. 
 
Financial management. 
Responsibilities for all financial management activities were likewise 
confirmed during pre-appraisal. A financial management specialist has reviewed the current set-
up and found it adequate to manage project funds. A
 
financial management manual has been 
developed by the client. 
 
Environment. 
HPCD has submitted an Environmental Impact Assessment (EM) and an 
Environmental Action Plan (EAP), which the Bank has reviewed and found satisfactory. 
Responsibilities for all environmental management activities are included in the Plans. 
 
Resettlement. 
HPCD has also prepared a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), which sets out 
responsibilities for implementing resettlement. It has been reviewed and found satisfactory by 
the Bank. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The potential response of the market to the availability of improved water transport infrastructure 
will depend on many factors, most of them beyond the control of the project implementing 
agency.  In the Bank-financed first Inland Waterways Project, completed in 2001, the average 
size of vessels passing through the Guigang lock increased 17% in the first year of operation and 
a
further 44% the following year.  Under IWW2 a similarly rapid switch to larger vessels was 
also seen. 
 
There is little doubt that the electricity generated by the proposed dam will be purchased by the 
local power distribution companies.  Today generating capacity is short; in the future the low 
marginal cost of hydro-electricity will make it attractive.  The national government is seeking 
ways to reduce acid rain, putting hydro-electricity in a strong position.  Furthermore, the peak 
season for electricity demand (air conditioning) coincides with the peak rains.  Power pricing is 
included in the technical assistance to assist HHRND in negotiating the sale of power generated 
at Cuijiaying. 
 
Replicability 
Similar navigational complexes and institutional development programs have been developed 
under the first, third, and fourth Inland Waterways projects.  It is to be hoped that these, together 
with the present project, will serve to demonstrate good practice as regards cost-effective 
Page  6
6
technical design, safety provisions, environmental and social safeguards, and coordination 
among different entities managing dams on the same river.  China’s geography is such that the 
scope for such replication is large.  
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country and Sector 
 
Useful lessons can be drawn from the experience of three on-going waterway projects in China – 
the Second, Third and Fourth— and hydro-electric projects, notably that at Ertan. 
 
·
Prior projects have shown the importance of thorough investigation of 
geotechnical conditions for the dams’ foundations, as deficiencies have led to redesign 
and delays. The Bank has worked with HPCD to ensure proper attention was given to this 
subject. 
·
At the Bank’s recommendation, HPCD has established a Dam Safety Panel.  The 
Dam Safety Panel is responsible for developing dam safety policies and ensuring these 
policies are reflected in the design, construction, and initiation of operation. 
·
The earlier projects have shown the value of coordination and good information 
exchange among the various agencies involved in managing water resources in a given 
river valley for flood control, irrigation, power generation and navigation.  Such 
coordination will gain in importance when peak-hour pricing for power is introduced in 
the coming years. 
·
Initial doubts about whether the market would take advantage of the increased 
navigation capacity have proved groundless.  Larger vessels have been introduced as was 
hoped and the average vessel size has typically doubled within about five years.  
Previously almost all waterway vessels were self-propelled, but now one sees a growing 
number of ‘tows’ (pusher units) propelling a set of un-powered barges, a far more 
efficient option for large cargo shipments. 
·
The large Ertan Power Project showed the difficulty of specifying all details of 
the resettlement plan in advance.  However, resettlement under the proposed project will 
be far smaller in extent. 
·
The Ertan Project also showed that even a large project could make, on its own, 
only a limited contribution toward the development in its service area of a competitive 
market among independent power producers.  In this regard aspirations for a single 
investment project should therefore be modest.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies
 (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Page  7
7
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Cuijiaying Navigation and Power Complex on Han River - 
Prefeasibility Study Report 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Graham Smith 
Title:   Lead Transport Specialist 
Tel:  
+86-10-5861-7730 
Fax: +86-10-5861-7800 
 
Email: Grsmith@worldbank.org 
Location: Beijing, China (IBRD) 
 
12. 
For more information contact
:
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
