Page  1
CONFORMED 
COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4804-CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Fifth Inland Waterways Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
HUBEI PROVINCE 
 
Dated November 3,  2005 
 
Page  2
2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4804-CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated November 3, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HUBEI PROVINCE 
(Hubei). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Hubei agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS Hubei, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Hubei declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through HPCD, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering practice and safety, environmental and 
social standards, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Hubei shall otherwise agree, Hubei shall carry out the Project 
Page  4
-
2
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
Hubei shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 2.03. (a) Hubei shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Hubei shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Hubei, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Hubei on said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Hubei shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
Hubei shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Hubei of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
3
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a)  Hubei shall maintain, and shall cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) Hubei 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 Section 3.02.  (a) Hubei shall prepare or cause to prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which set 
forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 (b) The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover 
the period not covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar semester. 
 
Page  6
-
4
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Hubei 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Hubei thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made 
at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 For 
the 
Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  7
-
5
For Hubei 
 
The World Bank Financed Project Office 
Hubei Provincial Communications Department 
 
428
Jianshe Avenue  
 
Wuhan, Hubei 
 
430030, People’s Republic of China  
 
Facsimile: 
 
86-27 83460754 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Hubei may be 
taken or executed by its Governor or any Vice Governor of Hubei or such other person or 
persons as said Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and such Governor 
or Vice Governor shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  8
-
6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in B
eijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ David Dollar 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
HUBEI PROVINCE 
 
By: /s/ Zhu Guangyao  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
7
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower other than goods manufactured in the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Works estimated to cost less than 
$15,000,000 equivalent per contract and goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions. 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be 
those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of 
China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic of 
Page  10
-
8
China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for 
compliance with the Guidelines: 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of natio
nal circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less 
than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper.  Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for submission 
of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall 
specify the deadline for such submission. 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified 
in detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an 
amount sufficient to protect the Borrower and Hubei in 
case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the 
bidding documents shall specify the required form and 
amount of such security. 
(v) 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be 
offered an opportunity to be present (either in person or 
through their representatives) at the time of bid opening, 
but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid 
opening. 
(vii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
Page  11
-
9
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or 
Hubei, as the case may be. 
(viii)  Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the 
appropriate standards of capability and resources and 
whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially 
responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be 
required, as a condition of award, to undertake 
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(ix) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the 
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
(x) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract  may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Page  12
-
10
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; 
(c) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (d) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided  by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm procured on 
the basis of Single Source Selection, regardless of the value. In addition,  the record of 
justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for each 
contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more shall be subject to prior approval of the Bank.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  13
-
11
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
Management
1. 
Hubei shall maintain until the completion of the Project both PMO and 
CCMO, with terms of reference, facilities and staff at all times acceptable to the 
Bank. 
2. 
Hubei, through CCMO, shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
Project Financial Management Manual. 
Resettlement and Environment
3. Hubei 
shall: 
(a) 
take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any 
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets, or 
of income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently;  
(b) 
carry out the RAP in a manner designed to improve or at least maintain 
the living standards, income earning capacity and production levels of all Displaced 
Persons;  
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of the RAP and the achievement of the objectives of such plan, including 
the engagement of experienced and qualified independent monitoring agencies acceptable 
to the Bank; 
(d) 
by each February 15 and August 15, commencing February  15, 2006, 
and until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank, reports incorporating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities referred to in paragraph 3(c) above during the 
preceding July through December and January through June periods respectively, 
together with any revisions proposed to be introduced into the RAP in order to achieve its 
objectives; and 
(e) 
thereafter, introduce such revisions into such plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
4. Hubei 
shall: 
Page  14
-
12
(a) 
carry out the EMP in a manner designed to ensure that the Project is 
implemented in accordance with sound environmental and cultural relics practices and 
standards; 
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of the EMP and the achievement of the objectives of such plan, including 
the engagement of experienced and qualified independent monitoring agencies acceptable 
to the Bank; 
(c) 
by each February 15 and August 15, commencing February 15, 2006, 
and until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank, reports incorporating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities referred to in paragraph 4(b) above during the 
preceding July through December and January through June periods respectively, 
together with any revisions proposed to be introduced into the EMP to achieve its 
objectives; and 
(d) 
thereafter, introduce such revisions into such plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
Dam Safety
5. 
In order to ensure the safety of the dam to be constructed under Part A of the 
Project, Hubei through CCMO shall: 
 
(a) 
during the period of implementation of the Project, continue to employ a 
panel of qualified experts under terms of reference and with resources acceptable to the 
Bank, to review the adequacy of the design and construction procedures of such dam and 
its associated structures; 
 
(b) 
prepare, in a manner and in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the 
Bank, detailed plan for: (i) construction supervision and quality assurance; 
(ii) instrumentation; (iii) operation and maintenance; and (iv) emergency preparedness; 
and 
 
(c) 
carry out periodic safety inspections of said dam after its completion. 
6. 
By December 31, 2008, Hubei through CCMO shall enter into an agreement with 
Danjiangkou Water Resources Complex Administrative Bureau of the Ministry of Water 
Resources, or any successor thereto, in accordance with the Letter of Intent dated March 
24, 2005, for the exchange of information on the coordination of water releases from the 
two upstream dams, Danjiangkou and Wangfuzhou, to ensure the achievement of the 
purposes, and the safety, of the Cuijiaying Navigation Complex to be constructed under 
Part A of the Project.  
Training and studies
Page  15
-
13
7. 
With respect to Part B.1 of the Project, Hubei shall carry out the training program 
in accordance with a twelve (12) month training plan acceptable to the Bank.  For such 
purposes, Hubei shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by February 15 and August 15 of 
each year, commencing in 2005, a proposed training plan for the following 12-month 
period, and thereafter carry out such training plan taking into account the comments of 
the Bank thereon. 
8. 
With respect to Part B.2 of the Project, Hubei shall carry out the studies in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank for 
comments: (a) by December 15, 2007, the recommendations of the waterway study under 
Part B.2(a) of the Project and the power pricing study under Part B.2(c) of the Project; 
and (b) by March 15, 2008, the recommendations of the logistics planning study under 
Part B.2(b) of the Project and, thereafter, prepare and implement an action plan taking 
into account the comments of the Bank on all the studies. 
CCMO financial obligations
9. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Hubei shall ensure that CCMO 
maintains, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 2009, 
an operating ratio of not less than 70%.  
(b) 
Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, Hubei shall ensure that CCMO, 
on the basis of forecasts prepared by CCMO and satisfactory to the Bank, reviews 
whether CCMO would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 9(a) above in respect 
of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion. 
(c) 
If any such review shows that CCMO would not meet the requirement 
set forth in paragraph 9(a) above 
for CCMO’s fiscal years covered by such review, 
CCMO shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the structure or levels of its electricity and shiplock rates) in order to meet 
such requirements. 
(d) 
For the purposes of this paragraph: 
(i) 
The term “operating ratio” means total operating expenses minus 
depreciation, divided by total operating revenues. 
(ii) 
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for 
depreciation on a straight-line basis acceptable to the Bank, but 
excluding interest and other charges on debt. 
Page  16
-
14
(iii) The 
term 
“total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
10. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Hubei shall ensure that CCMO 
does not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
CCMO shows that the estimated net revenues of CCMO for each fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of CCMO in such year on all debt of CCMO including the debt to be 
incurred.  
(b) 
For the purposes of this paragraph: 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of CCMO maturing by 
its terms more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred. 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
Page  17
-
15
(vi) The 
term 
“reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
CCMO not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and 
CCMO accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has 
notified CCMO of its acceptability, provided that no event has 
occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results of CCMO. 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this paragraph it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
Monitoring and reporting
11. Hubei 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, by February 15 and August 15, commencing on February 2006, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
11(a) above, on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project, both 
cumulative, and in respect of the preceding calendar semester, and explain the variances 
between the actual and planed Project implementation; and 
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 11(b) above review said 
report with the Bank, and promptly take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
