                                           Document of
                                       The WorldBank

                               FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo: 31322-CN




                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                       PROPOSED LOAN

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$lOOMILLION

                                            TO THE

                              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                             FORA

                         FIFTHINLANDWATERWAYSPROJECT

                                       September 14,2005




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia andPacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bankauthorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate EffectiveAugust 2005)


                          Currency Unit = RMB (Yuan)
                               RMBl.OO = US$0.12
                                   U S $ l= RMB8.11

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January1    - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS   CountryAssistance Strategy
CCMO  Cuijiaying Complex Management Office
CNAO  China NationalAudit Office
dwt   Deadweight Tonnage
EIA   Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR  Economic Internal Rate ofReturn
EMP   Environmental Management Plan
FIRR  Financial Internal Rate o fReturn
FSL   Fixed-SpreadLoan
GWh   Gigawatt hour
HPCD  HubeiProvincialCommunications Department
HPFD  HubeiProvincialFinance Department
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
IWT   InlandWaterway Transport
kW    Kilowatt
LIBOR London Interbank OfferedRate
MBD   Model BiddingDocuments
MOC   MinistryofCommunications
MOF   MinistryofFinance
NCB   NationalCompetitive Bidding
NDRC  NationalDevelopment and ReformCommission
NPV   Net PresentValue
RAP   ResettlementAction Plan
SEPA   StateEnvironmental Protection Agency
SHEIDI SecondHarborEngineering Investigation & DesignInstitute
TA    Technical Assistance
VSL   Variable-Spread Loan
WBFPO World Bank-Financed Projects Office

                          Vice President:    Mr.Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                       Country Director:     Mr.DavidDollar, EACCF
                          Sector Director    Mr.Jitendra N.Bajpai, EASTR
                      Task Team Leader:      Mr.GrahamSmith. EASTR

                                                                                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                 CHINA
                                           FifthInlandWaterwaysProject

                                                            CONTENTS


                                                                                                                                                    Page

  A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                              .................................................................  1
    1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                 1
    2.  Rationale for Bankinvolvement .........................................................................................                       1
    3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                   2

  B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
   .                                             .................................................................................................    2
    1. Lendinginstrument .............................................................................................................                2
    2. Project development objective andkeyindicators..............................................................                                   2
    3.  Project components............................................................................................................. 3
    4. Lessonslearned andreflected inthe project design............................................................                                   4
    5.  Alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection ..............................................................                                4

  C.  IMPLEMENTATION                    ..........................................................................................................    5
    1.  Institutionalandimplementation arrangements..................................................................                                 5
    2.  Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results..................................................................                                6
    3. Sustainability andreplicability ...........................................................................................                    6
    4.  Critical risksandpossible controversial aspects.................................................................                              7
    5. Loan conditions and covenants...........................................................................................                       7

  D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
    .                                          ...................................................................................................    8
    1. Economic and financial analyses........................................................................................                        8
    2.  Technical............................................................................................................................. 9
    3. Fiduciary...........................................................................................................................           10
    4.  Social.................................................................................................................................       11
    5.  Environment......................................................................................................................             11
    6. Safeguardpolicies .............................................................................................................                12
    7.  Policy exceptions and readiness........................................................................................                       13

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties Its contents may not be otherwisedisclosed
                                                                   .
without World Bank authorization                           .

Annex 1:Country and Sector Background                   ..............................................................................      14

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank                            ........................................................    19

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                      ........................................................................     20

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description          ......................................................................................       23

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................       28

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                  .................................................................................      29

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                                           ..................................... 31

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements              ......................................................................................       37

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                  .............................................................................      41

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................       47

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                      .....................................................................     54

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File               .................................................................................      56

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                ..............................................................................      58

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................       63


MAPS
IBRD33930 FifthInlandWaterways Project
IBRD33931 FifthInlandWaterways Project. SystemontheHanRiver   Water
IBRD33932 FifthInlandWaterways Project. Layoutofthe CuijiayingNavigation&
                                                              General
             Hydropower Complex
IBRD34053 FifthInlandWaterways Project. ofReservoir InundationImpact

                                          CHINA

                          CHINA: FIFTHINLANDWATERWAYS

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                EASTASIA AND PACIFIC

                                          EASTR

Date: September 14,2005                       Team Leader: GrahamSmith
Country Director: DavidR. Dollar              Sectors: Ports, waterways and shipping
Sector Director: Jitendra N.Bajpai            (55%); Renewable energy (45%)
                                              Themes: Infrastructure services for private
                                              sector development (P); Rural services and
                                              infrastructure (S); Water resourcemanagement
                                              (SI
Project ID: PO85333                           Environmental screening category: Full
                                              Assessment
LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan Safeguard screening category: A
                                  Project FinancingData
[XILoan [ ]Credit        [ ]Grant  [ ]Guarantee    [ ]Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing(US$m.): 100.00
Proposedterms: VSL, standardterms




Borrower:
People's Republic o f China
representedby Ministryo f Finance

Responsible Agency:
HubeiProvincialCommunications Department
No. 428, JianSheAve.
Hankou, Wuhan
Hubei,China 430030
Tel: (027) 8346-0753 Fax: (027) 8386-0754
proiectoffice@,hbit.~ov.cnn

TY        2006   2007  2008  2009  2010  2011
k u a l    10.00 25.00 30.00 20.00 10.00  5.00
Zumulative 10.00 35.00 65.00 85.00 95.00 100.00

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:        Re$ PAD C.5
Boardpresentation:
None

Loan effectiveness:
1.1 Receipt o flegal opinions from the national government onthe LoanAgreement andfrom
     Hubei Province on the Project Agreement.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
2.2 Retroactive fmancing: Retroactive financing ofup to $10 million is proposed for
     expenditures on civil works incurred after October 1,2005.
2.3, Financialperformance targets: CCMO is to maintain a debt service ratio ofnot less than
     1.3 and an operatingratio of not less than 70%, and other performancetargets set out in
    Annex 3.
2.4 Flow of funds: The authorized allocation for the special account will start at $4 million,
    raisedto $7 milliononce disbursementsfrom the corresponding part o f the loanexceed $30
    million.
2.5 HubeiProvincei s to carry out the EnvironmentalManagement Plan andResettlement
    Action Plan, h i s hto the Bank anyproposed revisions to theseplans, and carry out those
    revisions to which the Bank agrees.
2.6 Progress reporting: HPCD i s to submit, byFebruary 15 andAugust 15 of each year,
     startingwith February2006 anduntilthe projectis completed, a semi-annual progress
    report on the project's implementation, includingimplementation of the Environmental
    Management Plan andthe ResettlementAction Plan, covering the period January-June and
    July-December respectively.
2.7 Dam safety: CCMO i s to continue to employ a panel of dam safety experts for the
     Cuijiaying Complex to review the adequacy of its design and construction procedures,
    prepare an acceptableplan for (a) construction supervision andquality assurance; (b)
     instrumentation; (c) operation andmaintenance; and (d) emergencypreparednessacceptable
     to the Bank, and carry out periodic safety inspections ofthe Damafter its completion.
2.8 Bank review of studies: HPCD i s to give the Bank anopportunity to comment on the
    recommendations ofthe studies on strengthening the planningandmanagement o f
    waterways andonpower pricingby December 15,2007, and ofthat on logistics by March
     15,2008.
2.9 Coordination with upstreamdams: Consistent with the agreement dated March 8, 2005
     covering the CuijiayingComplex's construction phase, HPCD is to submit by December
     31,2008 an agreementwith the upstream dams goveming exchange of informationabout
    water releasesand dam safety issuesduringCuijiaying's operating phase.


A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. CountryandSector Issues

InChina's central andsouthernprovinces largenavigableriverslinkmanyofthemajorcities.
This creates exceptionally favorable conditions for inlandwater transport (see Map 33930).
Today inlandwaterways carry roughly 10percent of freight intons while, reflectingthe lengthof
the mainnavigable waterways, 27 percentofthe freight ton-km are performedby inland
waterways. On some ofthe rivers' upper sections, limitedwater depthprevents safe year-round
access by vessels o fmorethan 50 tons capacity. Iti s possible, at reasonablecost and with
moderate environmental impact, to deepensuch navigation channelsto allow greaterpenetration
upstream. A healthy return on investment canbe achievedby developing at the same time the
hydropower andwater storagepotential.

Economic development o fthe central andwestern provinces will dependon improvingtheir
transport sectors inorder to lower transport costs for coal, minerals andthe manufacture o f
industrial and consumer goods. Two major rivers cross Hubei Province: the Yangtze andthe
Han. Coal andminerals, requiredbythe Xiangfanindustrial zone, are extractedupstreamalong
the HanRiverinShaanxi Province.

2. Rationalefor BankInvolvement

The province o f Hubei, inthe center of China, wishes to builda multi-purpose damandshiplock
on the HanRiver 17kmdownstream from the city of Xiangfan (see Map 33931). This
navigation andpower generation complex i s known as Cuijiaying.

A comprehensiveflood control, navigation, water resources, andhydropower planfor the Han
River, that includes the Cuijiaying complex, was first developed in 1956. Ithasbeenrevised
severaltimes since, andi s expectedto be completed by 2020, providing the HanRiver region of
Hubei and Shaanxi with a key inlandwaterway transport route. The proposeddevelopment at
Cuijiayingi s a step inthis long-term development planthat includes the construction of 16dams,
nine inHubei and seveninShaanxi. Two inHubei, at DanjiangkouandWangfuzhou, havebeen
completed. The others are scheduled for completion instages by 2017-18.

Hubeiprovincial government gives priorityto constructionof Cuijiayingbecauseofthe urgent
need for reliable sources of electricity. Inrecent years consumptionhas grownrapidly (10-15
percent per year) inpacewith Xiangfan's industrial development andurbanexpansion. The
power company hashaddifficulty keepingup with demand andneeds to expand generating
capacity urgentlyifpower shortages areto be avoided.

Forecastsdeveloped for the feasibility study on Cuijiaying show that traffic on the Hubei section
ofthe HanRiver will increase from 11million tons in2003 to 18.5 milliontons in2010. The
traffic will bemost densebetween Xiangfan and Wuhan. More than 90% of the waterway traffic
on the Hubeisection will start from Xiangfan. Fromthe viewpoint o ftraffic flow, it would
appear that either Cuijiaying or the Xinglong dam, about midwaybetween XiangfanandWuhan,
should havepriority interms o ftimingof development over the other steps.



                                                 1

The Cuijiayingreservoir will also serve animportant purposeinensuringthe availabilityo f
water to a large areaofirrigated farmland northeast ofXiangfan. Hometo some 3 million
people, it has inrecent years suffered drought andwater shortages, as the mainriver feedingthe
area hasbegunto dryup. That river --the Tang-- flows into the Hanat Xiangfan, andthe
Cuijiayingreservoir will back up the TangRiver far enoughto feed year-round existing pumping
stations and thence an existing network o f distributionchannels.

3. Higher-level Objectives to which the Project Contributes

The 2003 -2005 China Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) stresses the Bank's support to
China's makingtwo historic transitions --from a rural, agricultural society to anurban,
industrialized society, and from a centrally plannedeconomy to a more globally integrated
market-based economy. To this end its maingoals are to:

    0   improve the business environment andhelp accelerateChina's transition to amarket
        economy;
    0   addressthe needs of the poorer and disadvantagedpeople andregions (mainly central and
        western provinces); and
    0   facilitate a more environmentally sustainabledevelopment process.

The Chinesegovernment has included this projectinits borrowingprogram from the World
Bankbecauseit exemplifies the CAS goals ina regionthat is predominantly ruralbut
undergoingrapidurbanization and industrialization.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. LendingInstrument

The Bankwill finance the project through a specific investment loan. Hubeihas selectedthe
variable-spread loan (VSL) option, inwhich the spreadover LIBORi s reset every semester. Its
mainreasonfor preferring'this to a fixed-spread loan (FSL) i s that the spreadon aVSL i s
slightlylower under most scenarios andbecauseHubeidoesnot foreseeusingthe conversion
option or other flexible features that distinguishan FSL.VSL repayment terms are governed by
standardcountry terms.

2. Project Development Objective and Key Indicators

The project's development objective is to enhancethe standardoflivinginthe HanRiver region
bydeveloping its potential water resources, including:
    (a) increasing the waterway transport capacity along the HanRiver andits cost-
        effectiveness; and
    (b) ensuringthe availabilityofsustainablehydropower andwater resources for use inthe
       Xiangfan area andthe Tangdong farmlandregion.

The project will produce the following outputs:




                                                  2

   0  Navigation-The proposedlock and 38-km longreservoir will accommodate 1,000-ton
      capacity vessels. Currently the largest vessels that cannavigate this section year-round are
      200-ton boats.
   0  Power -About 390 GWhofhydropower per year will beprovided to XiangfanCity.
   0  Water resources - Water will be available for domestic, industrial, and agricultural uses
      (irrigation o f 118,000 ha of farmland) inthe Xiangfanregion.
   0  Floodcontrol-The Cuijiayingdamwill add its reservoir to the storage capacity alongthe
      HanRiver for attenuatingflood surges duringthe rainyseason.

The following keyoutcome indicators havebeenselected:

   0  Navigation- Shipsupto 1,000 dwt will be able to transit the navigational channel, and the
      lock will be available to accommodateexpectedthroughput. This will be measuredby the
      mean elevation o fthe reservoir, and the availability ofthe lock.
   0  Power -Efficiencyinconstruction of electric generatingcapacity will bemeasuredbythe
      cost per kW capacity installed compared with generatingunits of similar size elsewhere in
      China. Efficiency inoperation and maintenanceo fthe powerhouse will bemeasuredby
      the hours per year when the turbines are available for use (at times when electricity i s
      demanded andthe water level inthe reservoir permits operation).

3. Project Components
The project hastwo components:
Cuijiaying Navigation and Power Complex (total US$197.68 million, IBRDUS$98.81
million). Themaincomponent consistsof:


0  Construction of the dam, power station, and shiplock. The dam will have a maximum
   height of 18mand a weighted averagehead o f 6.3m. The shiplock will benear the west bank
   of the river andthe power house towards the east bank (see Map 33932). Thepower station
   will have aninstalled capacity o f90 MW (six turbines) with an averageannual generation of
    390 GWh, net o f internal losses. Thepower plantwill be connectedto the grid for Xiangfan
   Prefecturevia a substation less than 1kmfrom the dam. The shiplock will be a Class I11in
    accordancewith the Chinese lock classification and capable o f accommodating vessels up to
    1,000 ton capacity with an effective chamber o f 180x 23 x 3.5m. The dam site will be
   linked to the west bankby a short access road andbridgesover the shiplock.

0  Reservoir bank protection: The banks o fthe reservoir will be strengthenedto ensuretheir
    stability, therebyprotecting the adjoiningfarmlands andvillage settlements from flooding. In
    all about 30 kmo f embankment will betotally reinforced; the total areao f slopeprotection
   will be 19.3 ha.

Institutional Development (US$1.47 million, IBRDUS0.94 million)

The systems, institutions, andprocessesneededto implement the Cuijiaying complex need
strengthening. Theproject will assistthrough technical assistanceprograms inthe following
areas:




                                                 3

   0   Capacity buildingwill be providedto the implementingagencies (Hubei Provincial
       Communications Department and the Cuijiaying Complex Management Office-see
       below) throughtraining and studytours.

   0   Studies will be carried out on (a) strengthening institutional capacity ininlandwaterway
       planningand administration inHubeiProvince; (b) logistics planninginHubeiProvince;
       and(c) power pricing.

4. Lessons Learned andReflected inthe Project Design

Useful lessons canbe drawn from the experienceo f three on-goingwaterway projects inChina
andtwo recent hydro-electric projects.

   0   Prior projects have shown the importanceof thorough investigation of geotechnical
       conditions for the dams' foundations, as deficiencies have ledto redesign and delays.
       The Bank has workedwith HubeiProvincialCommunications Department(HPCD) to
       ensure proper attention was givento this subject.

   0   Prior projects have also shown the importance o f a dam safety panel to provide expert
       guidance on design andoperational issues. Accordingly, HPCD appointed such apanel,
       which has developed dam safety policies andmade sure that thesepolicies are reflected
       inthe design, the construction andthe start ofoperation.

   0   The earlier projects have shown the value o f coordination and good informationexchange
        among the various agenciesinvolvedinmanaging water resourcesina givenriver valley
        for flood control, irrigation, power generation andnavigation. Such coordination will
        gain inimportance when peak-hour pricingfor power i s introduced inthe coming years.

   0    Initial doubts about whether the market would take advantageo fthe increasednavigation
        capacity have provedgroundless. Largervessels have beenintroduced as was hopedand
        the averagevessel sizehas typically doubled within about five years. Previously almost
        all waterway vessels were self-powered, but now one sees a growing numberof `tows'
        (pusher units) propelling a set ofun-poweredbarges, a far more efficient option for large
        cargo shipments.

   0    The ErtanHydropower Project also showed that even a largeproject couldmake, on its
        own, only a limited contributiontoward the development inits service area of a
        competitive market amongindependentpower producers. Inthis regard aspirations for a
        single investment project should therefore bemodest.

5. Alternatives Considered andReasons for Rejection

Several alternatives were appraised: four locations for the dam's axis, the option oflocating the
power house adjoining the west or east bank, alternative reservoir elevations and storage
capacities, and different options regarding the turbines (see Map 34053). The design firm chose
the axis linewhich offered the best geological conditions, the turbine configuration which
offered the lowest cost per kW ofpower capacity, andthe storage capacity which maximized
power generationduringpeak hours.



                                                 4

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutional andImplementationArrangements
Executingagency
The project will beimplementedbythe HPCD. It has created a dedicatedunit,the Cuijiaying
Complex Management Office (CCMO), to implement and manage the construction ofthe
Cuijiaying complex. CCMO's key staffcome from HPCD. CCMO will manage and operate the
facility uponits completion.

The World Bank-Financed Projects Office (WBFPO) i s anHPCD department that has
successfully managed four World Bank transport projects. It i s responsible for coordinating
project preparation and will remainthe Bank's main counterpart duringimplementation. Similar
arrangementshave proven effective underthe previous projects.

Fundsflow
The loanwill beto the People's Republic of China through its Ministryof Finance (MOF), and
on-lending agreementswill be signedbetweenMOF andthe govemment of HubeiProvince
through its Finance Department. The Bankloanproceedswill flow from the Bankinto the
project special account to be set up andmanagedbythe HubeiProvincialFinance Department
(HPFD) to HPCD andthento CCMO and finally to contractors or suppliers.

The loanwill be disbursedusingtraditional techniques andnot basedonproject management
reports, inaccordance with a general agreementbetween the Bank and MOF.

Project ManagementActivities

Project implementationplan. WBFPO has prepared aproject implementation plan, which i s
acceptableto the Bank.

Procurement. An institutional assessment conducted duringpre-appraisal showed that adequate
skills are available to managethe procurement operations (Annex 8). A procurement planhas
been developed as part ofthe Project Implementation Plan.

Financial management. Responsibilities for financial management activities were likewise
confirmed duringpre-appraisal. A financial management specialist reviewed the current set-up
andfoundit adequateto manageproject funds (Annex 7). The client has drawnup a financial
managementmanual, takingthe Bank's comments into account.

Environment. HPCD has submitted an EnvironmentalImpactAssessment (EIA) and an
Environmental Management Plan(EMP), which the Bankhas found satisfactory.
Responsibilities for all environmental management activities are included inthe Plan(Annex
10).

Resettlement. HPCDhas also prepared a Resettlement Action Plan(RAP), which sets out
responsibilities for implementingresettlement. Ithasbeen found satisfactory bythe Bank
(Annex 10).


                                               5

Coordination with upstreamdams. Management ofthe Cuijiayingcomplex will require close
coordination on water releaseswith upstreamdams, especially the very large Danjiangkou dam
142kmupstream. HPCD has providedthe Bank an agreement datedMarch 8,2005, together
with a supplementary letter datedMarch24,2005, inwhich the entitymanaging Danjiangkou
confirms its intent (a) to keep discharges duringCuijiaying's construction below levels that
mightendangerits cofferdam; (b) to minimizewater releasesduringthe closure ofthe Cuijiaying
dam; and (c) at all times to managereleasesinsuch a way as to avoid suddenmassive variations.
Itagreesto keep Cuijiayinginformedofits releasesinatimelymanner andto exchangerelevant
information, especially as regards flood control measures.

2. Monitoringand Evaluation of OutcomesDXesults

Annex 3 lists the mainoutcome indicators for the project. HPCD and CCMO will regularly
collect the data requiredfor monitoringand evaluation of outcomes and results. They will
review the results on the basis of various progressreports, andtake appropriate corrective action
where needed.

3. Sustainability and Replicability

Sustainability: The potential responseofthe market to the availability o f improvedwater
transport infrastructure will dependon many factors, most of thembeyond the control ofthe
project implementingagency. Inthe Bank-financed first InlandWaterways Project, completed
in2001, the averagesizeofvesselspassingthrough the Guiganglock increased 17% inthe first
year of operation and a further 44% the following year. Underthe Second InlandWaterways
Project a similarly rapid switch to larger vessels was also seen.

There is little doubt that the electricitygeneratedby the proposed damwill bepurchasedbythe
localpower distribution companies. Today generating capacity i s short; inthe future the low
marginal cost ofhydro-electricity will make it attractive. The national government i s seeking
ways to reduce acid rain, puttinghydro-electricity ina strongposition. Furthermore, the peak
season for electricity demand (air conditioning) coincides with the peak rains. CCMO expects to
sign a long-term power purchase agreement with the provincial transmission and distribution
company before operations begin. Power pricing is included inthe technical assistanceto assist
CCMO innegotiating the sale o fpower generatedat Cuijiaying.

Replicability: Similar navigational complexes and institutionaldevelopment programs have
beendevelopedunder the first, Third, and FourthInlandWaterways Projects. It i s to behoped
that these, together with the present project, will serve to demonstrategood practice as regards
cost-effective technical design, safety provisions, environmental and social safeguards, and
coordination among different entities managing dams onthe same river. China's geography i s
suchthat the scope for such replicationi s large.




                                                  6

4. CriticalRisks and PossibleControversialAspects

Institutional Capacity
Thanksto (among other things) its involvement with the previous andon-going Bankhighway
projects, the institutionalcapacity of HPCD i s strong, aside from requiringnew technical support
insomespecialized areas. Baseduponthe lessonslearnedfromthepriorBank-financed
navigational complexes, the macro-economic, financial, policy-related and politicalrisks of this
project not meetingits development objectives are low.

South to North Water Diversion Project (see Annex 4)
The Central Government hasdeveloped aplanto transfer water from the water-surplus Yangtze
River Basinto the water-deficit Huang(Yellow), Huai, andHai Basins. There will bethree
major transfer routes: the Eastern, Middleand Western Routes. The Middle Route Schemewill
divert 9.5 billionm3ofwater from the Danjiangkou Reservoir to the BeijingandTianjin
metropolitan areas startingin2010 andbuildingup gradually over 13 years to 2023.

Inplanningfor the Cuijiayingcomplex arangeof scenarioshavebeenconsideredincludingWith
andWithout the planned Southto NorthDiversion.Withthe South-North Diversion, the
regulated minimumflows inthe HanRiver below Danjiangkouwill be enough to sustain year-
roundnavigation invessels up to 500 tons capacity (a flow o f 490 m3/secto ensure a water depth
o f 1.8m). Without the South-NorthDiversion, the minimumregulated flow canmaintain vessels
ofbetween 500 and 1,000 tons capacity. The completion o f all downstream complexesby 2017-
2020 together with proper regulation should provide aminimumflow capable of serving 1,000-
ton vessels, with or without the South-North Diversion.

5. Loan Conditions and Covenants

Effectiveness Condition

1.1     Receipt o f legal opinions from the national government on the LoanAgreement and from
HubeiProvince onthe ProjectAgreement.

Covenants
Agreement reached with the Government
2.1     ThePeople's Republic of Chinaas the borrower will on-lend the proceeds ofthe loanto
HubeiProvince on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, includingthe foreign
exchangerisk.

Agreements reached with Hubei Province

2.2     Retroactive financing: Retroactive financing o fupto $10 million (10% of the loan
amount) is agreed for expenditures on civil works incurred after October 1,2005.
2.3     Financial performance targets: CCMO i s to maintaina debt service ratio o fnot less
than 1.3 andanoperatingratio ofnotless than 70%, andother performance targetsset out in
Annex 3.



                                                  7

2.4     Flow o f funds: The authorized allocation for the special accountwill start at $4 million,
raisedto $7 million once disbursements fiom the corresponding parto fthe loan exceed$30
million.
2.5     Hubei Province i s to carry out the Environmental Management PlanandResettlement
Action Plan, furnish to the Bank any proposedrevisions to these plans, and carry out those
revisions to which the Bank agrees.
2.6     Progress reporting: HPCD i s to submit, by February 15 and August 15 of each year,
startingwith February 2006 anduntilthe project is completed, a semi-annual progressreport on
the project's implementation, includingimplementation of the Environmental Management Plan
andthe Resettlement Action Plan, covering the periodJanuary-JuneandJuly-December
respectively.
2.7     Damsafety: CCMOis to continue to employ apanel ofdamsafety expertsfor the
Cuijiaying Complex to reviewthe adequacyof its design and construction procedures, prepare a
detailed plan for (a) construction supervision and quality assurance; (b) instrumentation; (c)
operation and maintenance; and (d) emergencypreparedness acceptableto the Bank, and carry
out periodic safety inspections of the Dam after its completion.
2.8     Bankreview of studies: HPCD isto givethe Bank anopportunity to comment onthe
recommendations of the studies on strengthening the planningandmanagemento fwaterways
andonpower pricingbyDecember 15,2007, andofthat onlogistics byMarch 15,2008.

2.9     Coordination with upstream dams: Consistent with the agreement datedMarch 8,
2005 covering the Cuijiaying Complex's construction phase, HPCD i s to submitby December
31,2008 an agreement with the upstream dams governing exchange ofinformation about water
releases anddam safety issuesduringCuijiaying's operating phase.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. EconomicandFinancialAnalyses                .

Economic (Cost benefit)
ElRR=22, NPV (at 12%)=US$234million

The economic evaluation of the CuijiayingNavigationand Power Complex covers
construction o fthe shiplock andthe power station. The principal measuredbenefits of the
project are savingsintransport costs byusingthe inlandwaterway with large vessels, the
economic value o fthe power, and the value o f increased farm output thanks to the reliable
irrigation. The estimated overall economic internalrate ofreturn (EIRR) for the project is
about 22%. Construction ofthepower station constitutes about 75% ofthe total project cost.
The overall economic net present value (NPV), based on a 12% discount rate, i s estimated
at about $234 million, o f which the navigationimprovementsare estimatedto contribute
about 40%, the power house 35%, andthe irrigation about 23%.

As noted earlier, farmlands northeast ofXiangfannow irrigated bywater pumpedfrom the
TangRiverwhich entersthe Hana short distance above the damsite, will benefit fiom the
creation ofthe Cuijiaying reservoir, as it will sustain the minimumwater levelrequired for


                                                  8

existingpumpsto continueworking. Without the reservoir it is fearedthe river will run
dry. The impact is estimatedat a difference inproduction ofabout 60,000 tons per year,
from extra yieldper hectare and/or extra area under cultivation. Air quality benefits
would addto the abovebut their monetary value would be small. A detailed assessment i s
providedinAnnex 9.

Financial
FIRR=6%

HPCDintendsto fundthe Cuijiaying Complex from a combination ofequity (49.5%) inthe
form ofgrants from the national andprovincial budgets, anddebt (50.5% from the World
Bankloan. Itplanstorelyonrevenue frompower sales to repaythe Bankloan; the state
requiresno dividends onthe equity. The power stationwill generate enoughrevenueover
the loanperiodto finance operations, maintenance and debt servicewith a constantannuity
amortization schedule.

CCMO will chargeno shiplock fees. HPCDhas confirmedthe availability of sufficient
counterpartfunds andits capacityto finance the capital investmentandoperatingexpenses.

Allthe indicators showthat the financial risks are moderate. A detailedassessmentis
providedinAnnex 9.

2. Technical

2.1 Geological andFoundation Issues

Among the four damaxes evaluated for the Cuijiaying complex as part o fthe feasibility study,
the one chosenwas foundto be the most suitable on grounds o ftopography, geophysical
conditions andhydrology. Itwas modeltested ina hydraulic laboratory.
The preliminary design o fthe shiplock, powerhouse, dam and reservoir were essentially
complete at the time o f appraisal. The detailed design was preparedbythe Hubei
Communications Planning andDesign Institute, assistedbythe HunanWater Resourcesand
Hydropower Investigations, Designand ResearchInstitute. The Dam Safety Panel assisted and
advised HPCD on geological andconstruction issues (as requiredbythe Bank's Operational
Policy 4.37). The final design is to be completed by September2005.

2.2 Coordination of Water Releases with UpstreamDams

The existing Danjiangkou reservoir is very large, enoughto allow sufficient regulation of flows
ofthe lower HanRiver throughout all but the driest ofyears, as well as delivery o fthe 9.5 billion
m3plannedto bedivertedto northern China. The volume ofits reservoir is today some 60 times
greater thanthe proposed Cuijiaying reservoir, and after expansion will be ahundredtimes
greater. The volumes to bereleasedby Danjiangkoucould be sufficient for profitableoperation
ofthe Cuijiayingcomplex, whether or not the Central South-North Diversion Scheme goes ahead
 as currently plannedor i s delayed.




                                                  9

A regulation scheme agreedwith the upstreamanddownstream stakeholders andadheredto by
the operators o fthe Danjiangkou damis required to ensurereasonablepower generation and
navigation. With the operation ofthe MiddleRoute Scheme o fthe South to NorthWater
DiversionProject, this regulation scheme will be crucial inallowing the Cuijiayingcomplex to
operate successfully.

The Wangfuzhou dam, immediately downstream from Danjiangkou, is an existing dam similar in
size to Cuijiaying. Iti s managedbythe Danjiangkou company.

Fromthe time the CuijiayingComplex starts construction, day-by-day consultations and
coordination with boththese upstreamdams will be neededregarding their releases ofwater, to
ensure stablenavigating conditions on the river andto protect the Cuijiaying construction site.
HPCD hasprovidedthe Bank an agreement dated March8,2005, complemented by a
supplementary letter datedMarch24,2005, with the HanRiverWater Resources andPower
Group (the company responsible for the Danjiangkou andWangfuzhou Dams) governing
exchangeofinformation about water releasesduringCuijiaying's construction phase. This
agreementis acceptable to the Bank.

Consistent with the above agreement datedMarch 8,2005 governing Cuijiaying's construction
phase, HPCD i s to submitbyDecember 31,2008 an agreement with the upstream dams
governing exchangeo finformationon water releases and dam safety issues during Cuijiaying's
operatingphase.

3. Fiduciary

FinancialManagement
The appraisalteam concluded, on the basis of guidelines issuedbythe Financial Management
Sector Boardon October 15, 2003, that the project meets minimumBank financial management
requirements, as stipulated inBP/OP 10.02. The project's implementingagencies have taken the
necessaryactions to ensure that the project has inplace an adequatefinancial management
system that canprovide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely informationon the status
ofthe project inthe reportingformat required bythe Bank (see Annex 7).

Procurement
A procurement capacity assessment ofthe implementingagencieswas carried out duringpre-
appraisal (see Annex 8). The assessment concluded that the overall risk ofthe procurement
processwas average. HPCD and dependentinvolved entities have allocated adequateresources,
including experienced staff, to implementthe project. These agencies are familiar with Bank
procurement procedures.

To strengthenthe procurement capacity o fthe implementingagencies, HPCD has prepared and
disseminatedaproject-specific procurement manual, conducted training workshops, andhas
taken measuresto avoid excessive cost overruns and improve procurement economy and
efficiency. Ways inwhich the Tendering and BiddingLaw o f Chinadiffers from Bank
guidelines were addressedinthe assessment, and clarifications for the procedures to be followed
for Bank-financed NCB procurement are includedinthe Project Agreement.



                                                10

4. Social

The main adversesocial impact of the project i s year-round flooding of landwithin the river
banksthat today is flooded duringonly a few summer months andis cultivated duringthe rest of
the year. Demolition o fhouseswill be limitedto the dam construction site. Resettlement
planningactivities included (a) detailedinventoryofimpacts andacensus of affected people; (b)
socio-economic survey; (c) a social assessment; and (d) consultations with the localpopulation.
The project requires 2,643 ha ofpermanent landacquisition (96% ofwhich are riverbanklands),
and96 haoftemporary land'acquisition. Theproject also requires the demolitionof41,600 m2
ofhouses, including 23,800 m2ofprivate houses. The affectedpopulation i s about 25,700
people in7,273 households, including261 people in67 householdsrequired to relocate. Project
construction will also affect somepublic facilities, business and enterprises.

The social assessmenthas also documented and evaluated the project's likely impacts, including
gender aspects-much o fthe landto be acquired i s farmed bywomen. Giventhe run-offnature
of the reservoir, most o fthe landsto be lost are low-yielding, subject to annual flooding. Besides,
most o fthe affected householdswill lose only a strip o fland, a low percentage of their total
landholding. Therefore the landloss impact on their family income and livelihoodwill be
limited. The social assessment also records the concerns andrecommendations ofvarious
stakeholdersas well as possible fishery impacts inthe HanRiver, and identifies project
beneficiaries. Broadly speaking, these impacts are moderate.

Appropriate mitigationmeasuresfor these impacts havebeenreflected inthe project design and
the ResettlementAction Plan (RAP). The RAP hasbeen developed inline with locallaws,
policies andWorld Bank OP 4.12, with active participationo f local governments and the
affected people. The RAP documentsthe impacts, presents the policy framework, and describes
the relocation arrangements andlivelihood rehabilitationmeasures. It also sets out plans for
rehabilitating affected public facilities, environmental measuresassociatedwith resettlement,
engineeringmeasuresfor embankmentprotection, the reservoir clearanceplan, construction
camp managementmeasures, and a grievance redressmechanism, as well as a cost estimate, an
implementation schedule, and organization andmonitoring arrangements.

The total resettlement budget is estimated at $26.1 million, or about 12% of the total project cost.
Resettlement will be financed with government funds.

5. Environment

The project site i s 17km downstream of XiangfanCity, the secondlargest inHubeiProvince.
There are no nature reserves or protected areas near the site. The structure o fthe complex would
bearun-of-river type damwith amaximumheight of 18m. The mainadverseimpacts ofthe
project are: (a) noise, water and air pollutionduringthe construction period; (b) disruptionof fish
habitats duringoperation ofthe complex; and (c) flooding oftwo ancient underground graves
andassociatedrelics. The nearest residential areais 400mwest ofthe site andhas apopulation
o f about 200 people, and some other residential areas along the routes from quarries for
construction materials to the damsite have also beenidentified. There are no schools or



                                                  11

hospitals within the impacted area. The nearestwater intake i s 1.5 kmdownstream and i s for
industrial use.

An EnvironmentalImpactAssessment was conductedandanEnvironmental ManagementPlan
was developed inlinewith localregulations and World Bank OP4.01, along with atwo-step
public Consultationinaccordancewith the Bankpolicy. The EIA andthe EMP cover the full
range o f environmental impacts, including altematives analysis, andnecessarymitigation
measures. Inaccordancewith consultation with the local fishery and environmental departments,
the EMP plansto construct a fish conservation center to releasenot only commercial but also
non-commercial fishfry upstreamofthe complex. A fishway will bebuilt into the damto avoid
interruptingthe movement of migratory eels swimmingupstreamto reach spawningbeds.

Provisions to protect the two culturalheritage sites are included inthe Environmental
Management Plan. Construction o fthe cofferdam (inthe case o f one site) and filling ofthe
reservoir (inthe case o fthe other site) will not be allowed to proceed untilthe provincial cultural
relics and archeology institute, under the guidance ofthe provincial culturalrelics bureau, has
explored each site and taken appropriate measuresto relocate whatever itjudges warranted.
Correspondinglanguagewill be included inthe civil works contracts. Chinese law, procedures
andinstitutional capacity arewell developedinthis area andfullymeet the requirements ofBank
policy. The safeguards team i s satisfied that proceduresbeing applied are technically sound and
appropriate.

Actions takento mitigate environmental impacts, includingprogress indealing with the cultural
relic sites, will bemonitored bythe environmental monitoringunit andreported to the Bankin
HPCD's twice-yearly progressreports, bymid-Februaryandmid-Augusteachyear starting with
February2006, untilthe project is completed.

The total cost for environmental protection i s estimated at $3.8 million or less than2% oftotal
project cost.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                           Yes              No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                             [XI               [I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                          [I              [XI
  PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                [I              [XI
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                 [XI               [I
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                  [XI               [I
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                   [I              [XI
  Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                    [I              [XI
  Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                            [XI              [I
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                               [I              [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                    11              [XI




                                                   12

7. Policy exceptions and readiness

Theproject entails no exceptions to Bankpolicies, andwillbe ready to start implementation
soon after plannedBoard approval inthe secondquarterof FY2006.




                                              13

                               China: FifthInland Waterways Project

                            Annex 1: Country and Sector Background


1 MainSector Issues andGovernmentStrategy
  -

The rapid growth o fthe Chinese economy has overloaded its transport network, which is
strugglingto keep pace. Invaryingdegrees the infrastructure of all transport modeshasbeen
modernized andupgraded, but the tonnagesto bemovedhave grown so fast and so broadlythat
inplacesthere havebeenlongtimelagsbeforenewcapacity couldbeputinto operation. The
expansion o f cities has especially strainedurbantransport systems designed for far smaller
populations. The introductionofhigher-capacity andhigher-quality transport services -notably
long-distance trucking-has also laggedbehind demand.Private road transport operations are
growing rapidly but state-ownedenterprises still have a substantial market share. Bottlenecks in
infrastructure have beenthe main focus of investments inall modes: roads, railways, waterways,
and especially urban transport. A sectorwide issue is how to ensure transparencyinthe awarding
o f contracts (competitive bidding) andensuring compliance with their price andquality
provisions (supervision). Bottlenecks inservices remain serious. Becauseo fthe under-
development o f China's services sector, the long inlanddistances, andthe railway's
concentration on its traditional bulk cargoes, it was estimated in 1999that China's logistics costs
(transportation, warehousing anddistribution) were highat 18 % o f GDP, comparedto 9.5 % in
the USA inthe mid-1990s. Moreover, whereas indeveloped economies transport accounts for
25% ofthe total logistics cost, inChina it was closer to half. Over the past five years big
improvements havebeenmade inthe transportation infrastructure and services inthe coastal
provinces, butthe inlandprovinces are still lagging.

Private sector participationinthe growth o f China's highway system i s advancedinterms of
bothdevelopment models andprivate capital flows. The private sector has contributed nearly
10%o f China's total commitment to new construction since the inception of economic reform in
the early 1980s- highcompared to most countries. However, the degreeo f risk transfer from the
public sector hasbeen limitedandobstacles to increased flows of funds are found inthe legal
andregulatory framework for private participationininfrastructure.

Transport's role inpromotion of trade: China's exports are crucialto the success o f its
economy. However, internaltransport costs are high, so that coastal provinces enjoy a
considerable advantage incompetition with inlandprovinces. Part o fthe problemfor the inland
provinces i s distance; part i s inefficiencyor inappropriate pricing. Intermodal logistic chains are
weak. Ifthe inlandprovinces are to share inthe export boom--either directly or as suppliers o f
inputsto manufacturers nearthe coast-- special efforts arerequiredto improvetheir access to
seaports andto overcome resistanceto cooperation across institutionalboundaries. China's
membership o fWTO requires opening up o ftransport services to foreignparticipation. This
maybe goodnews for exporters but badnews for Chinese transport firms.

Issues related to roads: The Government faces many strategic choices: how to balancethe
population's desire for greaterpersonal mobility (car ownership) with protecting the environment
and especially air quality; how to balance spending on expressways with lower class roads; how


                                                   14

to share costs betweennational andprovincial governments; how to finance highways -whether
bytolls or throughauser charge addedto fuel; how to attractprivate finance andmanagement
skills into road construction andmaintenance; and how to make all roads safer. It also faces the
question: how far should it interveneto promote efficient service-oriented trucking companiesin
the privatesector, andby what means?Government spendinghas been concentratedheavily on
the expresswaysmakingup the national trunkhighwaynetwork, raisingquestions whether
spendingmoreonupgrading andmaintaining existingroadsmighthave donemoreto improve
access inpoor regions. The legal framework for private participation ininfrastructure needs
attention.

Railwayissues: After careful deliberation and analysis of international experience, the
Government has adopted strategic goals for the national railway system, aimingto make it more
responsive to the market.It is gradually spinningoffnon-transport activities as independent
companies. Itplansto legally separatetransport operations fkom government oversight, but it
remains to bedecided how andwhen. Secondary strategic goals also needto be decided upon:
how far to enable competition among companiesofferingrail transport services (private or
otherwise); how far to allow pricingflexibility so that prices can reflect costs more closely,
service by service, and carriers and customers can enter into contracts covering not only pricebut
also service quality; andhow to deal responsibly with surplus labor, as informationtechnology
eliminates the needfor manyjobs.

Inlandwaterway issues: More thanmany countries, nature hasblessedChinawith large
navigable rivers linkingmany of its major concentrations ofpopulation, especially inthe center
and southwhere rainfallis high. Somerivers carry passengers; all carry largevolumes o fbulk
cargoes, especially coal, construction materials such as sandand gravel, timber, andmineral
ores. Many o fthese cargoes are hauled from rural areas (mines, quarries and forests) to urban
areas for processing. Thesemines, quarries and forests are often important sources o f
employment inpoor rural areas. However, on the rivers' upper reacheslimitedwater depth
preventssafe year-round accessbyvessels over 100tons. Manyofthe costs of operating vessels
vary far less thantheir carrying capacity, so larger vessels and sets ofbargespushedby a single
power unit can offer substantially lower costs per ton carried. At relatively modest cost the
navigation channels on these rivers canbe deepenedsufficiently to enable much largervessels to
reach far upstreambut thenmay require costly periodicmaintenance. Separating the power unit
fromthe bargesallows the former to bekept inrevenue-earning operation while the bargesawait
loading andunloading. Inlandwaterway transport (IWT) offers the added advantage that it has
less impact on the environment than rail or road transport. Accordingly, to ease the pressure of
demandfor new,roadsandimprovedrailways, the Government hasrecently steppedup
investmentinwaterways to deepennavigationchannels andupgrade navigational aids, at the
same time as it has undertaken public works to control floods.

Government strategy: The Government i s tackling all the aboveissueswith varyingdegrees of
success. Construction goes well everywhere. The Government has decided inprincipleto
introduce a fuel surchargeto fundroads buthas not yet passedlegislationto implementit,
apparently dueto the complexity o fthe issue and opposition from vested interests. Much
remains to be done to make the roads safer, especially on driver education and enforcement. A
window of opportunity maybe closing to take tough action to restrain private car use, as one new



                                                 15

car-manufacturing joint venture after another is announced. Onurbantransport the more
innovative cities are buildingundergrounds (metros) or busways; some are improvingtraffic
managementand taking steps to makestreets safer for cyclists andpedestrians. Many are
catering to private cars to excess, without addressingthe longer-term sustainability of car-based
city land-useplans andthe urgentneedfor anorderlyparkingregime (space, charges and
enforcement) and other measuresto managedemand. The Ministryof Railways, having
announcedits general intentionto undertake 'three separations', needs to set a timetable to
implementthem andaddress its surplus labor issue. TheMinistryofCommunications is drafting
laws to govem inlandwaterways (the infrastructure) and inlandwater transport (the services), to
bringmore consistency inrelevantpublic policies fromprovince to province andto codify good
practice. On export competitiveness the Government i s eager to improve access for inland
provinces andi s seeking ways to lower their transport costs and strengthenthe logistics services
linkingthem with external markets.

2 Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
  -

The market for inlandwaterway transport: China's geography and the locationofpopulation
are exceptionally favorable to IWT anduntilthe 1960'swaterway transport accounted for 70-90
percent of Chma's inlandtransport market. But today it accounts for only 5-10 percent of
China's inlandtransport market. A study financed under the Second InlandWaterways Project
found that inlandwater transportation o f low-valuecommodities such as coal hada distinct cost
advantageover other modes for distances less than 400 kmbut lost out to roadinterms of
flexibility. InJiangsuprovince, whose waterways allow vessels ofupto 400-500 ton capacity
andwherebargehow combinations arebeginningto beused, the averageinlandwater transport
tariffis about 1.1US centper ton-km, andthis couldbereducedby20-30% ifmorevessel
owners were to take full advantage andtrade up to larger vessels andbargehow combinations.
The situation i s comparable to other countries that useinlandwater transportation extensively.
Efficient river transport on the Mississippi or the Rhine, for example, can offer rates of 0.5-1.0
U S cent per ton-km for consignments o f 500-2,000 tons, which canrarelybe equaledby rail
(typically 1-3 US centsper ton-km for consignments of 100-1,000 tons), while trucks usually
cost 6-10 cents per ton-km (for consignments o f 5-20 tons).

Whether a cargo owner prefers river transportation to rail or road, however, depends on the
specifics ofhis demand. His choice is drivenbynot only the line-haul pricebut also the size and
frequency of consignment, its volume andregularity, the need for speedy or predictable delivery,
careinloading andunloading, and control against pilferage. Transport inlarge river vessels will
be attractive to customerswith large volumes o fundifferentiated cargo of low value, needingto
behauledover regular routes inlarge consignments, from origins andto destinations near a
riverbank.

As the Chineseeconomy matures andshifts toward-manufacturingofhigh-value intermediate
andfinished products, the primarysector andconstructionwill decline inrelative importance,
shrinlungthe marketfor IWT. This transition will befelt first inthe coastalprovinces.
However, IWTmay continue to thrive inlandfor bulk cargoes, oversize loads or dangerous cargo
andeveninthe coastalprovinces itmayprosper wherethe roador rail alternative is not readily
available, such as a river delta. A niche marketmay also develop for containers where the



                                                  16

servicebyroador rail i s deficient. Taken together, it i s likely that the demand for transport on
China's major rivers will remain substantial for at least the next couple of decades.

Coordinating multiple uses of rivers: Riversare usefulnot only for transport but also for
urbanwater supply, farm irrigation, andgeneration of electricity. Inmuchof Chinarainfallis
highlyseasonal, so river flows needto beregulatedandthe risk of floodinghasto bemanaged.
Damsbuilt for flood protection, electricity generation andirrigationimpose aneedfor ship locks
andintegratedmanagementofwater releasesthroughout the year. Managingthe rivers for these
multiple uses andreconcilingconflictingdemands i s not easy and merits Bank support.

Promotion of independentpower producers: In2003 the Chinesegovernment launched a
major restructuring o fthe power sector, ending the provincial monopolies o fintegrated
generation, transmission and distribution companiesby spinningoff generation. For many years
already hydro dams have sold their powerto the integrated monopolies from a weak position,
beingpaidonly enough to cover their identifiable costs o fproduction. Inthe new, competitive
structure, they will gain innegotiating power and financial autonomy, as they acquire the rightto
deliver power directly to major customers at privatelynegotiatedprices; and all generators,
hydro or thermal, become legally independentof the distributioncompanies, so the hydro
producers will no longer be selling to their competitors. Peakhour pricingi s also being
introduced. Most hydro plants focus on peak productionbecausethey lack sufficient water inthe
dry seasonfor daylong generation, so thiswill give themanopportunity to increasetheir revenue
substantially. Incompensation, the 'family-style' cooperation with their buyerswhichhas
prevailed hitherto will be replacedby more contractual, arms-length commercial relationships,
andrisks will have to be evaluatedmore formally and allocated appropriately.

Steering IWT operators toward larger vessels: Entrepreneurs contemplating investingin
barges andtows want to be assuredo f a steady demandfi-om cargo owners ando funiform and
assurednavigating conditions on the routes sought by the cargo owners. Since the Government
has devolved the operation ofriver fleets to the private sector, the means available to it to
encouragenew enterprisesto enter the IWTmarket are limitedto: (a) providingthe
infrastructure;(b) pricingit appropriately; (c) licensingoperators for safety; and(d) providing
transitional assistanceinpromotingthe market between cargo owners andvessel operators and
ensuringthe dissemination ofmarket information(logistics centers andinlandcontainer
terminals).

In2001the Governmentpromulgated ruleson(a) standardsfor vessels; and(b)managementof
old and over-age vessels. However, barringmany o f the existing vessels on the grounds that
they are old andperhapsunsafewill not ensurethat new larger vessels are put into use. A large
number o fvessels operating on China's waterways are small self-propelled boats owned by
individualsandoperatedbythe owner andhis family, livingon board. They lack the financing
to trade up to larger vessels. Upgradingo fthe fleet will require a shift fi-om small family-based
ownership to larger corporate ownership, a willingness to invest innewer technology, and access
to financing.

Public policy instruments to promote the use o flarger vessels havebeenthe subject o f a study
carried out for Jiangsuprovinceunder the Second InlandWaterways Project. The study



                                                  17

documentedthat the market responseinJiangsuhas been good, butrecommended the provincial
government to consider taking certain measuresto speedup the transition. These range from the
creation of a special fund to finance the construction of standardizedvessels, differentialcharges
for use o f channels and locks to discouragethe continuing use of small vessels, restricting the
use of locks for small vessels, prohibiting the use ofnon-standardvessels and crafts with a
capacity of less than 60 tons inClass 5 waterways over aphasedperiod, and administrative
measuresto deny the registration o fnew vessels that are non-standard.

Cost recovery for waterway infrastructure: The national government expects provinces to
recover some butnot all public expenditures on waterway infrastructure through chargesto IWT
users-unless revenuesfrom power sales suffice. Most provinces with large waterway systems
levy annual fees on vessels to cover channelmaintenance andcharges for the use o f shiplocks.
They aim to generateenoughrevenue from these fees to cover operation and maintenance. The
remaining finance has to come from power revenues, or where (as inJiangsu) the shiplocks are
not combined with power plants, from generalrevenuesavailable to the'province, with some
funding also from the nationalbudget. Thoseprovinces whichhaveborrowedfrom the World
Bankalso aimto cover their debt service onthe Bank loan, whichtypically is about40% ofthe
capital cost. This results ina level o f cost recovery for waterway investment andmaintenance
that i s one o fthe highest inthe world. Governments inthe EUandNorthAmerica do not seek
substantial cost recovery from inlandwaterways, becauseo ftheir environmental benefits.

Thispolicy on cost recovery for inlandwaterway infi-astructure strikes an appropriate balance
between subsidyand financial autonomy, but there remains room for improvement, such as in
modifylngthe structure andlevel o f fees to give stronger incentives for efficient use o fthe
infrastructure andto makethe grounds for subsidymore transparent.




                                                  18

                               China:FifthInlandWaterways Project


                     Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank



             Sector Issue                      Projects       I  Latest Supervision Ratings
lank-financed                                                  Implementation   Development
                                                                  Progress        Objective
0 Removetransport bottlenecks by       IWWl (completed)              S               S
  improving IWT facilities             IWW2(on-going)                S               S
0 Removetransport bottlenecks by       IWW3 (on-going)               S               S
  improving IWT facilities

  facilities as part o f integrated    IWW4 (on-going)               S               S




0 Highwaysafety
0 Operationandmaintenance o f
  high-grade highways
  Cost recovery




                                               19

                                China:FifthInlandWaterways Project

                           Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring


                                         Results Framework

               PDO                      Outcome Indicators            Use of Outcome Information
Enhancethe standard of livingin
;he HanRiver region by               0Navigation:
Jeveloping its potentialwater       -   Meanreservoir elevation       Usedby HPCD for cross
resources, including:                   (m)                           :omparison with other

[a) increasingthe waterway          -   Availability of the lock      navigational complexes onthe

transport capacity along the Han                                      HanRiver, andmeasurethe

River andits cost-effectiveness;                                      :fficiency ofthe investment.

and                                  0 Power:                         Usedby CCMO to measurethe
(b) ensuring the availability o f    - hours per year whenthe six     efficiency ofthe operationo f the
sustainablehydropower and              turbines are available for use power plant.
water resources for use inthe        - cost per kW capacity installed
Xiangfan area andthe Tangdong
farmlandregion.
     Intermediate Results            Results Indicators for Each        Use o f Results Monitoring
      One per Component                       Component
Component One: Cuijiaying           Component One:                    Component One:
Complex

Construction o f the Cuijiaying     Progressrate o fworks and         Monitoringof implementation
Complex                             procurement o f equipment         progress andactionplanto
                                                                      addresspossible delays.
Component Two: Institutional        Component Two:                    Component Two:
Development:

0    Training and study tours        0 Number o f stafftrained        Monitoringof implementation
                                                                      progress and actionplanto
0    Studies will be carried out on  0 Study reports completed        addresspossible delays.
     (a) strengthening institutional
     capacity ininlandwaterway
     planning and administration
     inHubeiProvince;
     (b) logistics planningin
     Hubei Province; and
     (c) pricingo f power to be
     supplied by CCMO.




                                                    20

                    /x
~



  fr      sn     0
                 0  0

  0  2m
  N    \o    x1  3m
                 I
  a
  0               0
                  0
  0          sn
  N          xi   3
  00             I
  0
  0
  N


 ' 0
  cz
  0
  N




                      2 1

h




                      I
       v1                 v1
       0                E




          s            s
          0           /9
    3      53  gs
   g       g
     Q\    Q\

    s      g   s       s
     0
     00    VI         /I
                 VI
                 r-
           s
           VI
           N
     g     s
     m     s

                              \O




                    22

                            China: FifthInlandWaterways Project

                             Annex 4: Detailed Project Description



1.      The projectinvolvesthe integrateddevelopment o fwater resources to improveinland
navigation on the HanRiver and generatepower inthe areao fXiangfanCity. The project
consistso f a dam, shiplock andhydro-electric power plant at Cuijiaying on the middlereacheso f
the HanRiver. On completion, the power plant at Cuijiayingwill generate some 390 GWhof
power per year. The shiplock will enable 1,000-ton capacity vessels andbarge-pusher
combinations to navigate all the way from Danjiangkouto Wuhan, a distance of 649 km, upon
completion o fthe long-term development planofthe HanRiver in2020.

Long-term Development Planfor the HanRiver

2.      The HanRiver is one o fthe largest tributaries on the middle reacheso fthe Yangtze
River. Its total length, fiom its sourceon the southern slopes o fthe Quinlingmountains in
Shaanxi province, to where itjoins the Yangtze River at Wuhan, is 1,567 km. The total "fall" i s
1,964 myandis divided into three typicalriver reaches. The river's "upper reach", from the
source down 918 kmto the Danjiangkou Reservoir, passes through amountainous area andis
accessible only to boats no larger than50 tons incapacity. The 140-kmsection between
Danjiangkou andXiangfan --part o fthe river's middlereach-- i s shallow andwide andcan
accommodate 100-200ton-capacityboats. Waterwayimprovement works areunderway onthis
sectionto enable500-ton vessels to navigateyear-round. The 530 kmsectionbetweenXiangfan
andWuhancanalreadyaccommodate500-tonvesselsyear-round. The river's annualrun-offtotals
53.9 billionm3;annualaveragedischarge(at theNianpanshanhydro-station)is 1,710 m3/sec.The
river'spotentialhydro-powercapacityis 6.14 millionkWa(now exploitedis 2.20 millionkWa).

3.      A comprehensive flood control, navigation, water resourcesandhydropower long-term
development planfor the HanRiverprovides Shaanxi andHubeiwith a key inlandwaterway
transport route. Approved bythe Ministryo f Communications in 1998, itincludes the
construction of 16dams: seveninShaanxi andnineinHubei. O fthese, two havebeen
CompletedinShaanxi --Shiquan andAnkang-and two inHubei --Danjiangkou and
Wangfuzhou (see Map 34053). The balance o fthe Hubei complexes are scheduledfor
completion instages by 2020.

4.      The Planaims to achieve the following vessel capacity standards for the HanRiver:
Yangxian-Ankang-300tons; hkang-Danjiangkou-500tons; andDanjiangkou-Wuhan -1,000
tons. The planned Cuijiaying complex, 142kmdownstream from Danjiangkou, i s a focal point
inthis long-term development planandits shplock isdesignedto accommodate 1,000-ton
vessels. However, the shiplock will not berequired to handle this size o fvesseluntilthe River's
long-term development planfor both shiplocks andnavigationchannelshasbeen completed in
2017-20.

5,      The specifics o fthe developments are as follows.




                                                23

I-CuijiayingNavigationandPowerComplex(US$197.68million)

Construction o f shiplock, power station, and dam: The shiplock will benear the west bank o fthe
river andthe power station near the east bank. Details follow:

   The shiplock will be a Class I11inaccordancewith the Chineselock classification and
   capable o f accommodating vessels o fup to 1,000 ton capacity with an effective chamber of
    180x 23 x 3.5m over the gate sill.
   The power station will have an installed capacity o f 90 MW (comprising 6 bulb turbines each
   o f 15 MW capacity) with an average annual generation o f 390 GWh. Thepower plantwill
   be connectedto the grid for XiangfanPrefecture at two transformer stations, one at 220 kV
   andthe other at 110kV, eachlessthan 1kmfrom the dam.
   A floodgate-dam will comprise 20 floodgates eachof20mnet width. Top floodgate-dam
   elevation will be 66.0 m. Design flood frequency anddischargerequirement for 1in50
   years will be 19,600 m3/sec.The floodgates will have a discharge capacity of some25,380
   m3/sec.
   An earthen(clay) damwill connectthe floodgates damandthe river's east (left) bank. Top
    elevation for bothwill be 66.0 m; total lengthwill be about 1,354m andmaximumheight
    18m(from the bottomofthe footings to the top ofthe sluicegate). The damwill providea
   weighted averagehead o f 6.3m (design head 4.7m).

   A 200m-long accessroadanda concretebridge60 x 6mwill connectthe complex to thewest
    (right)riverbank. A steelliftingbridge26 x 6mwill spanthe shiplock to complete the dam-
   top roadconnectionbetweenthe two river banks. The access roadon the east (left) bank i s
   very short, as the earthen dampracticallyterminates at the mainroad.

Reservoir bankprotection: Stone cladding o fthe reservoir bankswill ensurethat the slopeswill
remain stable and thus protect the adjoining farmlands andvillage settlementsagainst flooding.
Inall about30 kmofembankmentwillbereinforced; the total areaofslopeprotection willbe
19.3 ha.

Equipmentto support HPCD andCCMO operations ($3.88 million)
0   Vehicles for access to project sites
    Software
0   IThardware(work stations)


Construction supervision services (US$ 1.05 million)
Consultants will be employed to administer andoversee implementation on behalfo fHPCD.

Engineeringservices duringconstruction (US$80,000)
International consultants who have beenhelping HPCD to preparethe Cuijiaying Project (not
financed bythe Bank)may be called upon for follow-up advice onparticular issues.




                                                24

11-Institutional Development(US$1.47 million)

Capacity Building(US$960,000)
0  Capacity buildingwill beprovidedto HubeiProvincialCommunications Department,
   including WBFPO and CCMO, through technical assistance, training and studytours.
0  The Cuijiaying Complex will beHPCD's first experiencewith waterway projects. The
   capacity building,to include overseastrainingtours, will benefit not only the implementation
   ofworks, but the managementofthe entire complex after its completion.

Strengthening institutional capacity ininlandwaterway planningand administration inHubei
Province (US$120,000)
0  Consultants will investigatepresent conditions on waterways inHubeisuch as the Yangtze,
   HanandQingjiangRivers andanalyzethemajor factors that restrict their development.
0  They will review the waterway experienceindeveloped countries suchas Germanyandthe
   USA andinthe developed coastalprovinces ofChina, contrasting themwith present
   waterway conditions inHubei.
0  The consultantswill recommendpolicies andmeasuresfor waterway development inHubei
   as regards infrastructure, standardization ofvessels and operating practices, and facilities for
   loading andunloading cargo.

Lo~sticsplanninginHubeiProvince (US$240,000). The objectives of the study are to:
0  promote effective co-operation among waterway and landtransportation means;
0   evaluatethe costs andbenefits of developing river-sea non-stop transport; and
0  recommendonthe development of transportation meanswhich can adapt to dynamic market
    requirements inorder to promote the province's external oriented economy.

Pricingofbower to be supplied bv Cuiiiavina Complex (US$150,000). The objective ofthe
studyis to preparearationaldetermination ofthe on-net power tarifffor the CuijiayingProject
under alternative ways the power market couldbe organized inhture, so as to ensurethat under
various head conditions the generatedpower will becompetitive and ensuremaximumfinancial
income.

                       Cuijiaying Complex: Damand Powerplant Data
                                   I    Unit    IQuantity   IRemarks




                                                25

                                         Unit      Quantity      Remarks
Live storage                            106m'           40
River flow regulation                               Daily
Maximum flood elevation                   m             64.25
Normal pool level                         m             62.73
Deadlevel                                 m             62.23




Note:* Deductingan amount of 9.5 billionm3that will be diverted bythe South-North MiddleRoute
     DiversionProject from the original annualaverage run-off.




                                                  26

South to North Water Diversion

6.     Currently underimplementation, the Middle RouteProject for South-to-North Water
Diversion(the DiversionProject) will divert a water volume of as much as 9.5 billionm3per
year from the existingDanjiangkou Reservoir on the HanRiverto northern China. To this end,
the DanjiangkouReservoir will significantly increaseits storagecapacity through raisingits dam
by 12m. The CuijiayingDam, located 142kmdownstream ofthe Danjiangkou Dam, receives
most (though not all) its inflow from the releaseo f the Danjiangkou Dam. Therefore, the design
o fthe Cuijiaying complex should take full account ofthe impacts ofraisingthe Danjiangkou
damandthe water volume to bedivertedfrom the Danjiangkou reservoir. Among them arethe
following keyissues:

    0  Lower flood flows: After raising its dam, the Danjiangkou Reservoir will significantly
       increase its storage capacity by 67%, from 17.4billionm3to 29.0 billionm3,resulting in
       amuchhigher degree o f downstream flood protection, from the existing once in20 years
       to once in 100years.

    0  Higher heads for power: Dueto its larger capacity, the DanjiangkouReservoir will
       store muchmore floodwater thanbefore andreleaselower flood flows downstream.
       Hence the tailrace level o fthe Cuijiaying power plant will belowered by 0.3-0.5m and
       the heads for power will increasebythe same amount.

    0  Power generation of Cuijiaying Complex: Inthe design ofthe Cuijiayingproject, its
       annual generation i s 390 GWhproducedby the available water o f 34.1 billion m3,which
       i s the original annual averagerun-off o f 43.6 billion m3,deducting9.5 billion m3to be
       diverted bythe DiversionProject. (Obviously the latter will no longer be available for
       the generation ofthe Cuijiaying Complex ). Ifthe DiversionProject were not built,the
       annual generation of CuijiayingProject would increaseby about 30%. Iffor one reason
       or another the DiversionProject i s delayed or the water volume to betransferred i s
       reduced, either one would addmore water for generating additional power to the
       CuijiayingProject, resultinginanincrease inCuijiaying's generation o fup to 120 GWh,
       or RMB 50 million($6 million) inits revenue.

7.     The foregoing discussion shows that the water volume to bereleasedbyDanjiangkou
plusthat from the basin areabetweenDanjiangkouand Cuijiayingcouldbe sufficient for
profitableoperation ofthe Cuijiaying complex, whether or not the DiversionProject goes ahead
on schedule or i s delayed, and also whether or not the full diversion as currently planned is
achieved or a reduced diversion instead.




                                                27

                               China:FifthInlandWaterways Project

                                        Annex 5: Project Costs




Project Cost By Component                          Non-Bank        Bank-
                                                   Financed       Financed              Total

                                                  US$ million    US$ million        US$ million
I.CuijiayingComplex
 -- Civilworks                                        39.55          56.93               96.48
    Goods                                             32.16          41.82               73.98
 - Construction supervision
 -- Landacquisition                                    1.05           0.00                1.05
    Engineering services duringconstruction           0.02            0.06                0.08
                    and resettlement                  26.09           0.00               26.09
                   Subtotal                           98.87          98.81              197.68
II.
 -- Training
    InstitutionalDevelopment
                                                      0.26            0.70                0.96
    Studies                                           0.27            0.24                0.51
                   Subtotal                            0.53           0.94                1.47

Total Baseline Cost                                   99.40          99.75               199.15
 Contingencies (physical & price)                     11.71           0.00                11.71
                         Total Project Costs         111.11          99.75              210.86
                                Front-endfee           0.00           0.25                0.25
                  Total Financing Required           111.11         100.00               211.11

'Identifiable taxes andduties are US$6.84m, making the total project cost, net o ftaxes, US$204.27
million. The share of project cost net oftaxes is 96.8%.




                                                    28

                            China: FifthInlandWaterways Project

                           Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements


The project will beimplemented by HPCD. Its World Bank-Financed Projects Office (WBFPO)
has coordinated project preparation. HPCD has set upthe HubeiProvincial Cuijiaying
Navigation & Power Complex ManagementDepartment (CCMO), to implement and operatethe
Cuijiaying Complex. CCMO will manageconstruction works with the assistanceof domestic
supervision firms. It will operate the CuijiayingComplex after it opens for navigation. CCMO's
key staffwill come from HPCD. Itwill be the Bank's main counterpart duringimplementation.
Similar arrangementswere madeonthe four previous Bank-financedinlandwaterway projects in
China andhave provedeffective.

EngineeringDesign

HPCD hiredthe HubeiCommunications Planning andDesignInstitute andthe HunanWater
Resourcesand HydropowerInvestigations, Designand ResearchInstitute to carry out the design
studies for the Cuijiaying complex.

Resettlement

HPCD establishedajoint team for the preparation ofthe resettlement action plan(RAP),
involvingthe local government andconsultants. The plan, developed inline with local laws,
policies andWorld Bank OP 4.12, describesindetail the resettlement implementation
arrangements. HubeiProvince has establisheda multi-level organizational framework to plan
andimplement resettlement. This framework hasresettlement offices at different levels of
governments, includingproject level, prefecture/city and district. They havebeen staffedwith
experiencedexperts and their responsibilities have been specified inthe RAP. Theproject office
has designedboth internal and independentmonitoringmechanisms for implementing the RAP.
Internal monitoringwill be conducted through the resettlement offices at various levels of
government.

Environment

HPCD has prepared an environmental managementplan(EMP) on the Cuijiayingcomplex that
includespractical and cost-effective measuresnecessaryto mitigate the project-related impacts
byincorporatingtheminthe design andbyimplementingthem duringthe construction and
operation phases. The EMP also specifies the appropriate monitoringplans, training,
institutional arrangements, implementation schedule, budget needs, etc. necessaryto implement
the mitigationmeasures and strengthenthe borrower's capacity. Since the project will be the
fifth Bankproject implementedbyHubeiprovince, HPCDhasdevelopedample in-house
capacity inits environment unitto implement, supervise andmonitor the EMP.

InstitutionalDevelopment

HPCD will managethe institutional development component.


                                                29

Procurement

HPCD will be responsiblefor carrying out the procurement under the project. CCMO will
handlethe day-to-day managementofthe projectincludingtheprocurement process. Two staff
who have beenfamiliarized with Bank-financedprocurement inprevious transport projects have
been transferred to CCMO. To obtain necessaryprofessional assistancefor ICBprocurement,
HPCD has selected China International Technology Company as procurement agent for the
project. This agent hasmore than a decade o f experiencehandlingBank-financedICB
procurement. The above implementingagencieshave beenassessedto have adequatecapacity to
carry out the procurement under the project.




                                               30

                           China: FifthInlandWaterways Project

             Annex 7: FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements


Summary

1.      TheBankteamhas assessedthe adequacyofthe project's financial managementsystem,
applying guidelines issuedbythe Financial Management Sector BoardinOctober 2003. It
concluded that the project meets minimumBank financial managementrequirements, as
stipulated inBP/OP 10.02. Inthe team's opinion, the project will have inplace an adequate
project financial managementsystemthat canprovide, with reasonableassurance, accurate and
timely informationon the status of the project inthe reporting format agreedwith the project and
as requiredbythe Bank.

2.      Fundingsourcesfor the project include the Bankloanandcounterpart funds. The loan
will be signedbetweenthe Bank andthe People's Republic ofChinathroughits Ministryof
Finance (MOF), andon-lending agreements for the Bank loans will be signed betweenMOF and
the Government o fHubeiProvince through the HubeiProvincialFinance Department (HPFD)
andthenbetweenthe Finance Department andthe Communications Department. The loan
proceedswill flow from the Bank into the project special account to be set up at andmanagedby
the HPFD to HPCD andthen to the project implementing entity, the Cuijiaying Complex
Management Office (CCMO) and finally to contractors or suppliers. The loanwill be disbursed
usingthe traditional disbursementtechniques andnot report-baseddisbursements, inaccordance
with the general agreementbetweenthe Bank andMOF. The counterpart funds will be
government appropriations.

3.      No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with the implementingagency involvedinthe
proposed project. The task team will, however, continue to be attentive to financial management
matters andaudit covenantsduringproject supervisions.

RiskAnalysis
4.      The following risks with correspondingmitigatingmeasureshavebeen identified:

                                                            Mitigating Measures
                                       The project i s straightforward, HPCD has experience in
                                       Bankprojectsandis familiar withBank's requirement and
                                       procedures. The task teamwill closely monitor the project
                                       from the initial stageto ensure smooth preparationand
                                       imdementation.
    II. Risk
       Control
    a. ImplementingEntity Moderate Although HPCD i s experienced with Bankprojects, it i s the
                                        first time for themto implement an inland waterway project.
                                       Key personnel at CCMO come from HPCD. Detailed
                                        research relatedto the inlandwaterway industrywill be
                                        conducted bythe implementingentity andthe task team will
                                        provide support to the project.



                                                   31

  b.FundsFlow               Low        Allthe Bank's loanwill bemanagedbyHPFD,which has
                                       experiencewith several Bankprojectsbefore and i s
                                       qualifiedto handle this project.
   c. Staffing              Low        For some financial staff who are new to the Bankproject,
                                       training has beenprovidedat the initial stage and the task
                                       team will performclose monitoring and supervision
                                       throughout the implementation process.
   d. AccountingPolicies    Low        Accounting policies andprocedures are already inplace.
      andProcedures
   e. InternalAudit        IModerate The internal audit o f HPCDwill act as the internal audit
                                      I
                                       function for this project. For efficiency, no assessment will
                                       be made on its competency andthe task teamwill rely on
                                       external audit andBank supervisionreviews.
   f.ExternalAudit          Low        The external auditors, CNAO, have extensive audit
                                       experience with previous Bankprojects.
   g. Reportingand          Low        Format o f financial statementsandfrequency of submission
      Monitoring                       have been clearly definedbythe Bank and MOF.
   h.InformationSystems     Low        The computerized financial management system"User
                                       Friend (Yong You)" will be usedby CCMO. The task team
                                       will closely monitor the processing o f its accounting work in
                                       the initial stage and subsequentregular supervision
                                       missions.


5.      Strengths: BothHPCD and HPFDhave satisfactorily completed three Bank highway
projects with a fourthunder implementation. Their extensive prior experience on Bank-financed
projects will benefit the implementation ofthis project.

Weaknesses: It i s the first time for HPCD and CCMO to implementaninlandwaterway and
hydropower project. To addressthe lack of experience inthis industry, the followingproposed
solutions havebeen identified:
        The financial staff of CCMO will gain further understanding of the project byreceiving
        training/workshops fkom HPCD. Inaddition, the financial staffwill visit the various on-
        going inlandwaterway projects financed by the Bank,which will help themto properly
        design a suitable accounting andreporting system for this project.

    0   Financial managementpolicies andprocedures are documented indetail ina financial
        managementmanual. This enables the financial staffo f CCMO to better familiarize
        themselveswith Bank's requirements regardingproject financial management.

FinancialManagement Arrangements


6.      Implementing entity: To implement this project locally inXiangfan City, a new legally
autonomousentity, CCMO, was establishedbyHPCD and Hubei ProvincialNavigationBureau
inMarch2005. Underthe overallcontrolandmanagementofHPCD, the project's construction
component will be implementedby CCMO. Inaddition, HPCD will use its WBFPO as the
agencyresponsible for coordinating project preparation and for implementingthe technical
assistance.



                                                  32

                                          ~,
The organization chart i s as follows:




                                              WBFPO




HPCD-HubeiProvincialCommunications Department
CCMO-Cuijiaying Complex ManagementOffice
WBFPO-World Bank-FinancedProjects Office

7.      Fundsflow: One special accountwill be set up andmanagedbythe HPFD. The funds
flow will be as follows:
     1                                                               -
     I             I
       TheWorld                                                        Suppliers and
          Bank     HzsG+I             I

                                           HPCD -b       CCMO     +     contractors



8.      Counterpartfunds willbegovernment appropriations provided to CCMO through
HPCD.

9.       Staffing: Adequate project accounting staffwith educationalbackground andwork
experience commensuratewith the work they are expectedto performi s one of the factors
critical to successful implementation ofproject financial management. Based on discussions,
observation andreview o fthe educational background andwork experienceo f the staffidentified
for financial and accounting positions inCCMO, the Bankteam notes that the staff are qualified
andappropriate to the work they are expectedto assume.

10.      The financial managementmanual (the Manual) preparedby WBFPO i s designedto
strengthenfinancial managementcapacity and achieve consistent quality o f accounting work. It
provides detailed guidelines on financial management, internal controls, accounting procedures,
fund and asset managementandwithdrawal application procedures. The Bankteam commented
on the first draft o fthe Manual at appraisal and suggested some changes. The final version of
the Manual(dated April 19,2005) hasbeen formally adoptedby CCMO and distributed to all the
relevant financial staffbefore implementation o fthe project begins.

11.      As someofthe financial staff arenew to Bank-financedprojects, HPCD is providingall
financial andaccounting staff with a well-designed and focused training programon project
financial managementprior to project start-up, to ensure a good understanding and knowledge o f
the following:
         Bank's financial managementpolicy anddisbursementprocedures
     0   Fund/asset/contract management
     0   Format and content ofproject financial statements
     0   Audit requirement


                                                  33

12.    Accounting policies andprocedures: The administration, accounting andreporting of
the project will be set up inaccordancewith the Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for
World BankFinancedProjects'' issuedinJanuary 2000 bythe Ministryo f Finance. The circular
provides in-depthinstructions on accounting treatment ofproject activities and coversthe
following:

     0  Chart of account
     0  Detailed accounting instructions for eachproject account
     0  Standard set ofproject financial statements
     0  Instructions onthe preparation o fproject financial statements

13.     The standardset ofproject financial statementsmentionedabovehasbeenagreedto
betweenthe Bank and MOF and applies to all Bankprojects appraised after July 1, 1998 and
includes the following:

     0  Balance sheet
     0  Statement of source anduse of fund
     0  Statemento fimplementation of loanagreement
     0  Statement of special account

14.     CCMO will beresponsible for:

     0  managing, monitoringandmaintaining project accountingrecords;
     0  retaining original supportingdocuments for project activities;
     0  preparingfinancial statementsandsubmittingthemto the Bank for reviews and
        comments on a regular basis.

 15.    Reporting and monitoring of financial statements: Inline with the newly issued
Financial MonitoringReport guidelines, the un-audited project financial statementswill be
submittedas partofthis report to the Bankon a semi-annualbasis (prior to August 15 and
February 15 ofthe following year).

 16.    Internal audit: Although the internal audit of HPCD will act as the internal audit
function for this project, we have not assessed and will not assess the competenceo fthe internal
audit dueto the costhenefit of doing such work. As such, reliance will not beplaced on work
performed bythe internal auditor. However, we would at least review internal audit reports as
partofour normal supervision. This couldidentifyissuesfor our consideration and also provide
 some support for the development ofthe internal audit function.

 17.    Informationsystems: The computerized financial management system "User Friend
 (Yong You)", awell established accounting software package approved by MOF, will be usedby
 CCMO for this project. The task team will closely monitor the processingof its accounting work,
 especially inthe initial stage to ensure complete and accurate financial informationis providedin
 a timely way.




                                                 34

Audit Arrangements

18.     The Bank requires project financial statements to be audited inaccordancewith standards
acceptableto the Bank. Inlinewith other Bank-financed projects inChina, the project will be
audited inaccordancewith International Auditing Standards andthe Government Auditing
Standardsof the People's Republic o f China. The Audit Department o fHubeiProvince (ADHP)
hasbeen identified as auditors for the project. Annual audit reports will be issuedinthe name of
ADHP and subject to reviews bythe ChinaNationalAudit Office (CNAO). The Bank currently
accepts audit reports issuedby CNAO or provincialh-egional audit offices for which CNAO i s
ultimatelyresponsible.

19.     The annual audit reports ofproject financial statementswill be submitted to the Bankby
CCMO within 6 months o fthe end o f each calendar year.

Impactof ProcurementArrangements

20.     Thethresholds set for procurementpost-review (see below) will be consistentwith those
set for statements of expenditures for disbursementpurposes. The financial management
specialist andprocurement staffwilljointly participate insupervision missions to make sure
contracts awarded are inlinewith the Bank's procurement guidelines and contract payments
made are inaccordance with the terms ofthe contract andwell supported.

DisbursementArrangements

21.     The loanwill be disbursedusingtraditional techniques andnot report-based
disbursement, inaccordance with the general agreementbetweenthe Bank andMOF. The loan
proceeds will be disbursedagainst eligible expenditures as follows: (i)   civil works - 59 % of
expenditures, (ii) equipment - 100%of foreign expenditures, 100% o f local expenditures (ex-
factory) and75% of other items procured locally, (iii)   consulting services- 100%of
expenditures, and (iv) technical assistanceor training-100% o f expenditures.

22.     Disbursement methods, such as replenishment, direct payment and special commitment,
are available for the project. The statement-of-expenditure limits,inline with the procurement
post-review thresholds, will be as follows: (i) all contracts for civilworks estimatedto cost the
equivalent of $ 5 millionor less; (ii) contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent o f $
                                         all
500,000 or less; (iii) consultant contracts estimated to cost $ 100,000 (firm) or $ 50,000
(individual) or less; and (iv) all training.

23.     One special account will be establishedat andmaintained byHPFD for this project. The
authorized allocation for the account will not exceedUS$7million, equivalent to about 4 months
of eligible expensesreimbursable via special account. The initial authorized allocation from the
BankwillbeUS$4millionuntilthe aggregatewithdrawalsandoutstanding Special
Commitments are equal to or exceedUS$30 million equivalent. Fromthe special account in
HPFD, the Bank funds will be disbursed to a special account set up at HPCD, and then to CCMO
and finally to suppliers and contractors.




                                                 35

24.    HPFD will bedirectly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance and
reconciliation of the SA activities ofthe project. Supporting documentsrequired for Bank
disbursementswill bepreparedandsubmittedby CCMO to HPCD andthento HPFD for
                - - - -
verification and approvalbefore sending to the Bank for further disbursementprocessing. The
flow o fthe withdrawal application will be as follows:

   Contractors         Approval             Approval          Approval          World
   or suppliers        byCCMO               byHPCD            byHPFD             Bank


Action Plan

25.     HPCDhas agreedto complete the training of all relevant project financial staffbythe
time ofproject launch.

SupervisionPlan

26.     A detailed supervision planfor this projectwillbeincluded as partofthe ChinaAudit
Strategy document, which is currently inprocess. This document will take into considerationthe
size ofthe project and the risks identified.




                                                  36

                             China: FifthInland Waterways Project

                              Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements


A. General

1.     Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurementunder IBRDLoans andIDA Credits" datedMay 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection andEmployment of Consultantsby World Bank Borrowers" datedMay
2004, andthe provisions stipulatedinthe Project Agreement. For each contract to be financed
bythe Loan, the different procurementmethods or consultant selection methods, the needfor
prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, andtime frame have beenagreed
betweenthe Borrower andthe Bankproject team inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan
willbeupdatedat least annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementation needs
andimprovements ininstitutionalcapacity.

2.      Procurement of works (US96.48 million): Works procured under this project will
include: HanRiver CuijiayingNavigationComplex dam; shiplock civil works; powerhouse
construction; and subsidiaryconstruction such as short access roads andbridges, as well as
installation of equipment andmetal structures. The procurement will be done usingthe Bank-
approved Chinese ModelBiddingDocuments (MBD) for all International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) andNationalCompetitive Bidding(NCB). Incompatibilities between Chinese
procurement procedures and the Bank's are addressed in theprocurement annex to the Project
Agreement using the standard languagefor thispurpose. All new revisions to the Bank's
StandardBiddingDocuments since 1997will beincorporatedinto the existing MBDs. For civil
works contracts each estimatedto cost US$15 million or more, bidders will beprequalified and
ICBprocedure will beused.For other contracts for civil works, NCB procedure acceptableto the
Bankwillbeadopted.

3.      Procurement of goods (US73.98 million): Goods to beprocuredunder the projects
would be Power Station Equipment(turbines, generators and control system); metal structures
andhoists for dam, power station andshiplock; andnecessarycommunication equipment, etc.
The procurement will be done usingthe Bank-approved Chinesemodel biddingdocuments for
all ICB andNCB. All new revisions to the Bank's StandardBiddingDocuments since 1997 will
be incorporated into the existing MBDs. The Bank's StandardBiddingDocuments will beused
when anapplicable MBD is not available. Contracts eachestimatedto cost US$0.5 million or
more for Goods will beprocured throughICB; NCB will beused for contracts each estimated to
cost less thanUS$0.5 million; and for contracts each estimatedto cost less thanUS$O. 1million,
Shopping procedure will beused.

4.      Selection of consultants (US2.60 million): Consultants are expectedto behiredto
provide services inthe following areas: studies, training, and studytours as needed. Quality- and
Cost-based Selection (QCBS) will beused for contracts eachestimatedto cost US$200,000 or
more; contracts eachestimatedto cost lessthanUS$200,000 may be awarded on the basis of
Selection Basedon the Consultants' Qualifications (CQS); assignments for consulting services
meetingthe requirement ofpara. 5.1 ofthe Bank's Consultant Guidelines will be contracted on
the basis of Selection o f Individual Consultants(1C). Short lists of consultants for services


                                                 37

estimatedto cost less than$300,000 equivalent per contract maybe composed entirely of
national consultantsinaccordancewith the provisions ofparagraph 2.7 ofthe Consultant
Guidelines.

B. Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement

5.      Procurement activities will be carried out by CCMO, with the assistanceof WBFPO. In
addition, aprocurement agent (tenderingcompany) will behiredto provide assistancein
preparingbiddingdocuments, advertising, bidopening, bidevaluation, etc. The design institutes
hiredfor this project will assist WBFPO and CCMO inpreparingthe technical partofthe
biddingdocuments.

6.      The Bankteam assessedthe capacity of the implementingagenciesto implement
procurement actions for the project inOctober, 2004. Itreviewedthe organizational structure for
implementing the project and the interactionbetweenthe project's staffresponsible for
procurement and the relevant Provincialunits for administration and finance.

7.      The keyissuesandrisks concerningprocurement for implementation ofthe project have
been identifiedas follows: (i) proceduresstipulatedby Chinese Tendering andBiddingLaw
                                the
are different from the procedureso fthe Bank's Procurement Guidelines; (ii) the staff inCCMO
andWBFPO needto betrained onthe Bank's new Procurement Guidelines and procurement
procedures. The corrective measureswhich have been agreed are: (i)   provisions for Bank-
financed NCBprocurement are incorporated into the Project Agreement; and (ii) for all
                                                                                 training
staff from CCMO and WBFPO inlinewith the Bank's new Guidelines and procedureswill be
provided bythe Bankteam duringthe project launch workshop.

8.      The overall project risk for procurement i s average.

C. ProcurementPlan

9.      HPCDhas developed a procurement planfor project implementation setting out the
contract packaging, the procurement methods to be applied for eachpackage, andtheir timing. It
was discussedandagreedbyHPCD and the Bank team at appraisal. Itwill be available at
WBFPO as well as inthe project's database andthe Bank's external website. The procurement
planwill beupdatedinthe semi-annualproject progressreports andas requiredto reflect the
actualproject implementation needs.

D. Frequency ofProcurement Supervision

 10.    Inadditionto the priorreview supervisionto becarried outinBankoffices, the capacity
assessment ofWBFPO and CCMO recommendedthat supervision missions visit the field every
six months and carry out post review o fprocurement actions once a year.

E. Details ofthe Procurement Arrangements involvingInternational Competition

(a)     Contract packagesto beprocured following ICB anddirect contracting are as follows:




                                                 38

Works
~1        Contract (Description)         Estimated Procure-  Pre- Domestic Review Expected
                                           cost     ment     Qual Prefer- by Bank     Bid
                                           (us$     Method          ence   (Prior / Opening
                                          million)                (yes/no)  Post)    Date
W1 Opendiversion channel excavation        14.98    NCB       N      N      Prior    Dec-05
    andprevention, constructionof
    auxiliary dams
W 2 Construction o f longitudinal
    cofferdam and river closure works,
    sluice gates, power house, ship
    lock, fishway, rock-fill dam,
    connection works, and temporary
    works.
W3 Bridge pavement deck system
    across sluice gates, powerhouse,
    anddam.
W4 Buildingworks and other works.                    NCB

W5 Environmental protectionworks            2.15     NCB      N      N       Post    Jan-07
W6 Reservoir bankprotection and             2.79     NCB      N      N       Post    Jul-06
    limprovement works
W7 /Installationo fturbine-generator        3.20     NCB      N      N       Post    Nov-08

                                            1.18     N C B    N      N       Post    Apr-07
    related works.
     Total                                 96.48   I                                         I

Goods

Ref.       Contract (Description)         Estimated Procure- Pre- Domestic Review    Expected
 No.                                        cost     ment    Qual  Prefer- byBank      Bid
                                            (US$    Method          ence    (Prior / Opening
                                          million)                 (yedno)   Post)    Date
  G1 Bulbturbine sets andappurtenant       45.46      ICB     N       Y      Prior   May-06
     equipment
  G2 Metal structure o f floodgate, ship    13.65     ICB     N       Y      Prior    Jan-07
     lock, and powerhouse
  G3 Gantry crane at top of floodgate        1.39     I C B   N       Y      Prior    Jun-07
  G4 Main transformers                       0.63     ICB      N      Y      Prior    Jun-07
  G5 Switchyard equipment                   0.37     N C B    N       N      Post     Ju-07
  G6 Hydraulic hoists for sluice gate and   4.81      ICB      N      Y      Prior    Dec-06
     ship lock.
  G7 Miscellaneous equipment                 3.79   Shopping   N      N      Post      NA
     (including installation)
  G8 Project management equipment            3.88     NBF     NA     NA       NA       NA
     Total                               I  73.98  I




                                                    39

(b) Priorreview: ICB andNCB contracts eachestimatedto costUS$5 million or more for civil
works and contracts for goods above US$500,000 eachwill be subject to prior reviewbythe
Bank.

(c) The consulting assignmentsare programmed as follows:



Ref.    Description of Assignment         Estimated Selection Review by Expected           Expected
 No.                                         Cost     Method     Bank       Proposals      Contract
                                             (US$               (Prior /  Submission Implementing
                                           million)              Post)        Date          period
 T1 Strengthening institutional capacity     0.12      NBF        NA         NOV-06        12months
     ininlandwaterwayplanningand
     administration inHubeiProvince
T2.1 Logistics planning inHubei              0.16      CQS        Prior      Mar-06       24 months
    Province (overseas services)
T2.2 Logistics planning inHubei              0.08      NBF        NA         Mar-06       24 months
     Province (domestic services)
T3.1 Power pricing(overseas services)        0.08      CQS        Post        Jul-06       18 months

T3.2 Power pricing (domestic services)       0.07      NBF        NA          Jul-06       18 months

 T4 Engineering services during              0.08      CQS        Post       Jan-06        48 months
     construction
 T5 Construction supervision services        1.05      NBF        NA         Dec-05        48 months

 T6 Training                                 0.96       CQS       Post       Dec-06*       45 months

     Total                               I   2.60    I
 Date initial proposals are expected to be submitted. Other proposals expected to be submitted later.


Prior review for consulting;services: Consulting services estimatedto cost above US$lOO,OOO
per contract for firms and US$50,000 per contract for individualconsultants and all single-source
selection o f consultants (ifany) for assignments will be subjectto prior review by the Bank.

Short lists composedentirely o fnational consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
estimatedto cost less than US$300,000 equivalent per contract, may be composed entirelyof
national consultants inaccordancewith the provisions ofparagraph 2.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.




Note:
ICB     =         internationalcompetitive bidding            NA       =        Not applicable
NCB     =         national competitive bidding                CQS      =        selection based onthe
NBF =             non-Bank-financed                                             consultant's qualifications



                                                        40

                            China: FifthInlandWaterways Project

                           Annex 9: Economic andFinancialAnalysis


                                       A. EconomicAnalysis

1.       The CuijiayingNavigationandPower Complex will generateseveraltypes o f economic
benefit. Savings to waterway traffic are expectedto contribute about 40 percent ofthe total;
electric power will contribute about 35 percent; and extra farm output due to reliable irrigation,
together with air quality improvement from the replacement of fossil fuels byhydro-electricity,
will contribute about 25 percent. We havenot attemptedto quantifyflood controlbenefits.

2.       A single rateof economic retum is calculated for the entire complex becausethe splitting
ofjoint costs betweenpower, navigation, irrigation and flood control is arbitrary. The costs and
benefits usedinthis evaluation reflect January 2005 prices and a project life o f 25 years. The
financial costshavebeen converted to economic costs by eliminatingprice contingency, taxes
andcustoms duty on importedmaterials. Theresultingoverall economic cost is about 95 percent
ofthe financial cost.

Cuijiaying Shiplock and Waterway Transport

3.       Overview: The HanRiver (1,567 km)is the largest andmost important tributaryof the
Yangtze River. The Cuijiaying complex i s located on the middlereachesof the HanRiverin
HubeiProvince andis the thirdof atotal ofnineshiplocks plannedbythe Hubei government
along the HanRiver. The proposed lock i s a Class I11inaccordancewith the Chinese
classification and can accommodate 1,000-ton ships. The current standardo f the navigation
channeli s 500 tons andthe future standardfor which Cuijiayingi s beingdevelopedwill be 1,000
tons uponcompletion o fthe last shiplock (Yakou) downstream of Danjiangkouin2017.

4.       Traffic analysis: Inlandwaterways are the cheapestandthe most environmental friendly
of all transport modes, particularly for low-valuedry bulks: sand and gravel, cement and other
construction materials, coal, fertilizer, ores, etc. There are manyquarries andmines inthe
mountainous areas o fthe upstream HanRiver. These cargoes-making up 90 percent ofthe total
rivertraffic-- are shipped to industrialandresidential users inthe downstream city ofWuhan
(the provincial capital) andto the cities along the Yangtze River. However, the HanRiver
carries only a small fraction of the 40 million tons o f cargo transported inthe Xiangfan-Wuhan
area: in2003 ninepercent o fthe total. Most went byroad(75 percent). A lesser amount (16
percent) went bythe low-grade, single-track railwaybetween Xiangfan andWuhan. Rail traffic
with other origins anddestinations bringstotal traffic onthat line to 18.8million tons peryear--
approachingthe line's design capacity of 20 million tons. The railway has no expansion plan
dueto technical difficulties inthe mountainous areas west ofXiangfan.

5.       These figures are summarized as follows:




                                                    41

                              2003 Total Traffic by Modes (`000 ton)
                                               IWW       Railway    Road     Total
                 Total Traffic:
                  Downstream                     2,574      3,236   16,803  22,613
                  Up stream                      1,085      3,351   13,288   17,724
                         Total (a)               3,659      6,587  30.091   40,337
                 Modal split:                      9yo       16%     75%     100%
                 O fwhich Dry bulks
                   Constructionmaterials         3,140        720   3,750     7,610
                   Coal                             85      1,970      540    2,595
                   Ores                             70        925      480    1,475
                       Subtotal (b)              3,295      3.615   4,770    11,680
                 @/a)                             90%        55%     16%       29%
                Sources: HPCD, Bank staff

6.      Traffic forecast: Inrecent years river traffic at the project site has grown 3-4 percent
annually, slower thanthe local economy as awhole, which has grown at 7-8 percent per year.
The waterway's capacity i s almost fully used. Unless the current bottleneck i s eased, some of
the low-valueddry bulks will have to be transportedby other means or not sold at all. Basedon
the traffic origiddestination estimates, the river traffic mayreach 8 million tons within five years
ofthe dam's completion, from 3.7 million tons in2003. O fthese, 2.6 million tons are the
demandfrom localquarries andmines. The inlandwaterway traffic forecast at the project site is
summarized as follows:


                                              Actuals                   Forecasts
                                       1995    2000     2003   2005   2010   2015    2020
           Total Traffic (without the
           project):
            Up stream                    582     765 1,085     1,190  1,440  1,850   2,270
            Downstream                 2,373   2,157    2,574  2,740  3,190  3,730   4,140
                    Total (a)         I2,955 2,922 3,659 3,930 4,630 5,580
                                                              I                      6,410
           O fwhich Drybulks
            Constructionmaterials      1,987 2,356      3,140  3,360  3,955  4,700   5,330
            Coal                         233       79      85     90    105    115     125
            Ores                         274       78      70     80    110    145     185
                                                               3,530 4,170 4,960     5,640
                                                                90%    90%     89%    88%
           3
           Additional traffic demand (with the project) (c)             310 2,840    3,640
                                                                      4940 8420 10050
                 Sources: HPCD, Bankstaff

7.       Economic benefits: The expected shift o f traffic from smaller to larger vessels,
includingcombinations o funpoweredbarges and a tow, will reduce the cost oftransport for the
traffic that inany event would have usedthe river. Itwill also generateextra traffic of up to 3.6
million tons that otherwise would have to be carried by more costly transportmeans, or not at all.
The estimated transport cost for using200-ton ships i s 1.5 U S cents per ton-km, whereas with the
largest barges the unit cost o f transport canbebrought downbelow 0.5 cents. (This takes into



                                                   42

account the ship investment, depreciation, maintenance, operating andmanagementcosts.) By
reference to recent experienceonthe HanRiver and inthe Pearl RiverDelta, a 60% growthin
the average load ofvessels canbe expectedover eachfive-year period (roughly a 10%increase
per year) from 2009 to 2022. Bythat time anaveragevesselloadof 800 tons wouldbereached.
The average trip distanceis expectedto be about 560 km, which today typically costs $8-9
equivalent per ton. The average savingper trip ingoing from amix ofvessels of less than200
tons to amix averaging 400 tons by2015 i s estimated at $3.00 per ton, and a further saving of
$1.80 per ton --for a total saving of $4.80 per ton-- whenthe entire riverup to Danjiangkou
becomes accessibleto 1,000-ton vessels and combinations. Byfive years after opening ofthe
shiplock, transport savings accruingto the Hubeieconomy are expectedto reach $18 millionper
year, andto plateauby about 2022just short of $40 million per year.

Power Station

8.      Power market: In2003, the total power shortage for XiangfanCity --the project site--
was 1,138 GWh. Part of the local electricity hadto be imported from outside. The shortage
threatens to get worse as the local economy continues to grow rapidly. The total annualpower
generation o f Cuijiayingcomplex i s designedto be about 390 GWhby 2011(net of internal
losses of 2%). All will be sold to the localpower company. Itwill beusedmainlyfor baseload
duringwet (summer) monthsandpeak loadduringdry (winter) months.

9.      Economic Benefits: The economic value o fthe incremental power to be generatedby
the project i s estimatedby reference to the next cheapest alternative sources (a mix of coal and
gas-fired thermal energy). All the major parametersandmethodologies used inquantifjmgthe
economic benefits for the power station adhere to (or are scaledup from) those usedinthe
economic evaluation of the Bank-financed "Hubei Hydropower Development inPoor Areas
Project" (May 2002). One adjustment i s that Cuijiayingwill generate a larger share ofits output
inpeakperiods; the other is anupdatinginthe expectedeconomicpriceof coalandoil.

10.     The replaced energyby the proposed project consists of about 93 MW o f coal-fired
thermal as base load, combined cycle gas as shoulder load and gas turbine as peak load. The
economic value o fthe power i s estimated to be RMB 0.365 (4.4 U S cents) per kWh, or about
$18 million per year.

Reliable Irrigation

11.     The improvement inthe reliability of irrigationwater supply i s expectedto be reflected in
additional farm output. The total areaunder irrigatedcultivationi s about 118,000 ha. Current
yields of rice, peanuts, etc. average 3.3 tons per hectare. It i s conservatively assumedthat this
will improveby 15percent, that is, 0.5 extra tons per ha. The averagevalue oflocal farm
production, net o f farmers' inputs, i s about $200 per ton. This gives an overall value o f about
$12 million per year (23% of total benefits overall).

EmissionReductions

 12.    Comparedwith the alternative o f coal- and gas-fbeled plants, the hydropower will reduce
the emission of air pollutants: sulphur dioxide, nitrogenoxide, carbon dioxide and suspended


                                                  43

particulates (soot). The net local environmental benefits are estimated at about $1millionper
year --about 2% o ftotal benefits.

Project DesignAlternatives

13.     Six alternatives were tested: three for the optimal scale ofoutput andthree for the selection
ofthe project site. The final choiceswere selectedonthe basis ofthe geological conditions, the
quantityofcivil works, themaximumpower output, thehigher ERandcoordination withthe local
inlandwaterway networks. Details are available inthe feasibility studyreports.

OverallEconomic Evaluation of the Project

14.     TheoverallERofthe project rangesbetween 14 and22 percent, depending on
expectationsabout the pace o fthe shift to larger vessels, the opportunity cost of electricity, and
the inclusionor exclusion o f irrigationbenefits. The results, together with sensitivity tests and
the switching values, are summarized as follows:

                         ER,SensitivityTests andSwitch Value Summary
        m:                                                          EIRR(Yo)

         Total project                                                 -
                                                                       22.2
        Higher capital cost (+lo%)
        Sensitivitvtest:
                                                                       20.8
        No generatedtraffic                                            21.2
        Completiondelayed by one year                                  20.3
        Slower switch to larger barges                                 18.9
        Omitting irrigationbenefits                                    18.1
        Slower switchto larger barges, no irrigationbenefits           14.0

        Switchingvalues:                                        %increaseldecrease
        Cost increaseto reduce EIRRto 12%(a)                           +120%
        Benefit reductionto reduce EIRRto 12%(b)                       -55%
        Combine (c) and (d) to reduce EIRRto 12%              Cost: +30%, benefits -40%

 15.    Project Risks: The mainrisk is ifthe navigation benefits do not materialize, either
becausethe market fails to respondinsupplyinglarger vessels, or becauseincrementaltraffic i s
not attractedaway from rail or roadtransport.

                                        B. FinancialAnalysis

 16.     Preface: The financial evaluation o fthe project comprises two sections: (a) an
 assessmento fthe revenue-earning entity --the power station-- focusing on its consolidated
 financial statement; (b) financial performance indicators and financial covenants. The financial
 cost of capital i s assumedto be 4.0 percent for the Bank loan (50.5 percent o ftotal capital); the
 equity portion (49.5 percent) i s not required to pay a dividend.




                                                   44

FinancialEvaluationof the Power Station

17.    Operation. CCMO is a financially independententityresponsiblefor operatingthe entire
Cuijiaying complex, not only day-to-day managementandoperation andmaintenancebut also loan
repayment. Its revenuewill come solely fiom power sales; the provincial governmentwill regulate
the power sales price. An officialdocument, issuedbyXiangfancity government, guarantees to
purchaseall the power generatedbyCuijiaying at RMB0.42 / kwh(5.1 U S cents). This tariffwill
besubjectto approvalbythe HubeiPricingCommissionbutisreasonable,inthat itis consistent
with the currentpower pricingprinciples set byNDRC. Itis also intherangeoftariffs approved
recently for smallhydro projects inwesternHubeiunderthe Bank-supportedHubeiHydropower
Development inPoor Areas Project (on-going, launchedin2002).

18.    Cash flow. Despitethe financial repayment pressures for the Bank's loanwhich start
fiom 2011, the power station's cashflow shouldbe sufficient to meet all loanrepayment needs
andnormaloperation andmaintenance. In2011, for example, revenues (net ofVAT) will be
over $16 million but total working costs will barelyexceed $2 million. The annuityto repay the
Bankloanwill bealittleunder $9 million. Operation andmaintenance expenses are expectedto
grow gradually thereafter but the cashflow i s expectedto allow a debt service coverageratio
remaining above 1.4. This will be aided ifmodest increasesinpower price are negotiated (10
percent for the first five years or 1.9percent per year and 15 percent or 2.8 percent per year for
the subsequent five years).

19.     Counterpart funds: HPCD hasreiteratedits full commitment to the project,
guaranteeingits financial viability, releasing anofficial document to the Bank confirming its full
financial support.

20.     Financialinternalrate of return (FIRR): Withthe proposedpower sales price, the
project should not need any external cash injection. The financial evaluation shows that the best
estimateFIRRon total capital i s 6 percent. This should be expected, since the costing formula
uponwhich the tariff i s basedallows for a returnon equity of 4 percentagepoints abovethe
prevailingcost oflong-term debt, andthe interestrate on the Bank's loanwill beabout 4 percent.
The planneddebt/equity ratio i s close to 50/50. Becauseo fthe low profitability inearly years,
the FIRR andNPV will not changemuch ifcompletion i s delayed by one year.

21.     The criticalvariables determiningfinancial viability are the power tariff, the power
output, andinflationinoperation and maintenance. The tariff i s subject to final negotiation with
the Xiangfanpower distributioncompany, and the HubeiPricingCommission has the power to
impose a lower tariff. Power output could fall below forecast inthe event of drought or
equipment breakdown (supply induced) or competitionfiom other generating companies
(reduceddemand). Inefficient operation could lead to higher O&M expenditures. A further
concern commonto hydropower projects i s that construction may take longer than the loan grace
period. However, HPCD plans(credibly) to commission the first turbines within 4 years of
starting construction, allowing ayear and a halfs cushionbefore the first repayment o fprincipal
falls due.




                                                 45

MaintainingNavigation Conditions on the H a n River: FinancialRequirements

22.     HPCDbudget forecasts show that the investment andmaintenance of the HanRiver
waterway constitute only a small fraction of HPCD's fund flow. Basedon HPCD's financing
plan, the capital investment for the waterway will requirelessthan7.3 percent ofits projected
annual total revenue. Inaddition, the required operating cost ofthe waterway i s less than27
percent o fthe total maintenanceexpenditure o f HPCD. These low ratios indicate that the project
presents a moderate financial risk as regardsthe availability of counterpart funds for the
construction andmaintenanceofthe project waterway.

        HPCD:Investments, Revenue and Maintenance Expenditures (RMB million)
                                      2005      2006       2007      2008        2009     2010
    Investments and Revenue:
     Total Project Investment (a)      147        137       252         514        841
     Total HPCD Revenue (b)          9,503      11,423    11,150     11,393     11,547   11,459
     Ratios (a)/(b)                   1.5%       1.2%       2.3%     4.5%        7.3%      --
    Maintenance Expenditures:
     Total Waterway Operation Cost (c)                                              8.7    48.3
     Total Maintenance Expenditure (d)            140       150         159        170     180
     Ratios (c)/(d)                                                              5.2%    26.9%
        Sources: HPCD andBankstaff.

23,     The total lengtho fnavigable inlandwaterways inHubeii s about 7,260 km. This length
has not changedinyears andit i s not expectedto change duringthe 1lth        Five-Year Plan(FYP,
2006-2010) andthe 12thFYP (2011-2015). The total maintenance expenditures allocated to
inlandwaterways will beincreasedsteadily from 2006 to 2015. Basedon the available financial
data, the averageannual increaseinspendingon inlandwaterways for the 1lth and the 12th
                                                                                   FYP
FYP will be 6.5 percent and7.9percent, respectively. Duringthe same period, the domestic
inflation rate i s forecastedat under 3 percent. This means that the net increasesofmaintenance
expenditure will be 3.5-5.0 percent annually during2006- 2015. This increasing trendwill
enhancethe quality andlong-term sustainability ofthe inlandwaterway operations inHubei.

FinancialPerformanceIndicators and FinancialCovenants

24.     To ensurethat the project entities will have sufficient liquidity, assurances havebeen
obtainedthat beginningin2005, HPCDwill prepareannually arolling five-year financial plan,
whichwill be discussedwith the Bankspecifically withregardsto the projectedtotal revenueand
the projectedtotal expenditures.

25.     For financial monitoring, the operating ratio and debt service coverageratio were
selected as financial performance indicators. Duringproject operation, these indicators will be
closely monitored bythe Bank. A variance o f less than 15 percent from agreed financial
forecasts will be acceptable. The Cuijiaying Complex is required by covenant to maintain an
operating ratio of 70percent and a debt sewice ratio of at least 1.3. Inthe event that the targets
are not achieved, HPCD will be called on to improve the Complex's financial performance to the
extent possibleby increasing tariffs or reducingcosts or capital expenditures. However, this risk
i s consideredmoderate.



                                                  46

                             China: FifthInlandWaterways Project

                               Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues


                                    A. Social SafeguardIssues

1.      Social assessment. A joint team conducted a social assessment inthe project areas. The
social assessmentwas designedto include: (i)    a project impact analysis, (ii) aspects ofthe
                                                                             gender
project preparation, (iii)assessment o fpossible fishery impacts downstream, (iv) identify
possible ethnic minority communities inthe project areas andrecommend necessaryactions in
line with the Bankpolicy, and (v) project beneficiary assessment.

2.      Basedon terms ofreference preparedby the World Bank, the team prepared aworking
plan, guidelines for interviews andgroup discussions, andquestionnaires. The social assessment
was conductedthrough i)desk analysis ofhistoricaldata, govemment statistics andacademic
research; ii)sample field surveys through interviews, group discussions, questionnaire surveys
andiii)analysisand documentationofthe findings.

3.      Keyfindings are as follows,


    0   The project dam is on the outskirts o f Xiangfan Municipality. Project works and the
        reservoir inundation would affect the urbanas well as rural areas. The project areahas
        experiencedincreasingdiversificationinemployment, with a clear drop o f labor force in
        plantingindustryandfarmingincome inoverall householdincome.

    0   Adverse project impacts are mainly related to acquisition o f farmland andhouse impacts
        are mainly at the damsite. Land acquisition impact i s consideredrelatively small
        because: (i) o fthe affected lands are low-yieldingriverbank lands that are subject to
                      most
        annual flooding, and (ii)non-farmincome hasbecome the primary source o fhousehold
        income. Most ofthe riverbanklandson the Yuliang Islands are cultivated on a leasebasis
        bymigrantfarmers fiom outsidethe provinces. Generally the leasesare annual.

    0   Women play amoreprominent role inagriculture while menare engagedmore innon-
        farm employment. Womenhave demonstratedenthusiasminpublic affairs, particularly
        invillage politics. While theproject may affect women morethroughlandacquisition, it
        i s also seen as opening up non-farm employment opportunities for women with cash
        compensation. 75% of the women interviewed preferred cash compensation. Their
        concerns are over the adequacy o f compensation rates, and timely andtransparent
        payments.

    0   Fisheryresourcesinthe HanRiverhavebeendecreasingover the years. There areboth
        formal and informal fishermen. The former are mostly operating on a family basis with
        their ownfishingboats. The project is seen ashavingbothnegative andpositiveimpacts
        on fisheries. The negative impacts are related to fish resource decrease and difficulties of
        fishing. Theproject is also seen as providing anopportunity witha larger water surface
        area for bigger fishery operations. The recommendations includereleaseo f fingerlings
        anddevelopment of cage fishing.


                                                  47

    0    There are no ethnic minoritycommunities livinginthe project areas.

    e    Theproposedproject offers multiplebenefits through improvednavigation conditions on
         the HanRiver andimprovedirrigationreliability. Direct project beneficiaries include
         people andbusinesses engagedinrivertransportation, farming communities inthe
         vicinity o fXiangfan and the localpopulation that would take advantageof employment
         opportunities under the project.

4.       Land acquisition and resettlementplanning. The Complex will createa run-off
reservoir. These activities will require acquisition of land, relocation of somehouses andpublic
facilities. Hubei Communications Departmentestablishedajoint team for the resettlement
planning,involving local governmentsand expert consultants. A resettlement action plan(RAP)
was developed inline with local laws, policies andWorld Bank OP 4.12. Theplanningactivities
included i)a detailed inventoryo fvarious different categorieso f impacts and census of affected
people, tabulatedbyhouseholds andvillages, ii)a socioeconomic survey inthe project areas to
analyzethe project impacts, understandthe socioeconomic background inthe project areas, iii)a
social assessment inthe project areas andiv) consultations with the localpopulation.

5.       TheRAP contains descriptions ofthe policy framework, adverseimpacts andaffected
population. The project would require 2,643 ha ofpermanent landacquisition (96% of which are
riverbank lands), and 95.9 ha oftemporary landacquisition. The project would also require the
demolitiono f41,620 m2o fhouses, including23,790 m2o fprivatehouses. About 25,700 people
in7,273 householdswouldbeaffectedbylandloss and261peoplein67 householdswouldbe
affected byhouse demolition. Public facilities affected include drainage gates and stations,
irrigation canals, pump stations, power and cable lines etc. Eight enterpriseswill bepartially
affected.

6.       The RAP documents the rehabilitation measuresdevelopedinconsultation with the
affected villages and local governments. Various options havebeen discussedwith the affected
people, includingredistributionofremaining land and cashpayments. Specific livelihood
rehabilitation measureshave beendeveloped andrecommended for village groups. These
options will be further discussed and finalized within the farmer groups for implementation. The
67 families losingtheir houses all plannedto buildtheir replacement houseswithin the same
village. The villages will provide newresidential plots andthe specific house sites will be
finalized through consultation o fthe affected households. All relocating households will be
serviced with existingpublic facilities andinfrastructure. Five affectedbusiness families will be
provided business sites along the street within the same village. The affected enterprises will
receive cash compensation for their rehabilitation. All the affected public facilities will be
redesignedand compensatedat reconstruction cost. The RAP also describes environmental
measuresassociatedwith resettlement, engineeringmeasures for embankment protection, the
reservoir clearanceplan and construction camp site managementmeasures.

7.       The RAP also contains a detailed resettlement budget and financing plandeveloped on
the basis o fthe inventory and compensation rates. The total resettlement budgeti s estimated at
RMB 190.2 million, about $ 23 million. Resettlement will befinanced entirely from government
funds.



                                                  48

8.      TheRAP describes indetail arrangementsfor implementingthe resettlement. Hubei
Province has establishedamulti-level organizational framework for the planningand
implementation phases. This framework has resettlement offices at different levels of
government, includingthe project level, prefecture/city and district. These offices have been
staffed with experienced experts and their responsibilities have been specified inthe RAPS. The
project officehas designedbothintemal andindependent mechanisms for montoring
implementation ofthe resettlementplan. Intemalmonitoringwill be conducted through the
resettlement offices at the various levels of government.

9.      The RAP was preparedwith active participation o fthe affected population. The local
governments, village leaders andthe affectedpopulationtook part inthe census, inventory, the
finalizationof the damlocation, the compensation rates, the relocation andlivelihood
development schemes. Project information andresettlement policies were disseminated among
thembefore andduringthe consultationprocess. The affectedpopulation was systematically
consulted through the social assessment andtheir feedbackhasbeenincorporated inthe RAP.
The final draft RAP hasbeen placed inlocal libraries andits availability hasbeenannouncedin
localnewspapers. The project office will prepare aResettlement InformationBooklet and
distribute itto all affected households after the project appraisal. The project officehas designed
a grievance redressmechanism. Any grievances will beredressedthrough the resettlement
managementat different levels. The RAP contains detailed proceduresand a timeframe for
grievance redress. This mechanism will be described inanddisclosed through the Resettlement
InformationBooklet.


                               B. Environmental Safeguard Issues

A. Background

 1.     The Environmental Assessment (EA) for this project was carried out bythe Second
Harbor Engineering Investigation & DesignInstitute(SHEIDI), which i s independentfrom the
project owner, the HubeiProvince Communication Department (HPCD), interms of financial
andpersonnel management. The TOR ofthe EIA were draftedby SHEIDIand approved bythe
Bankas well asby SEPA. The draft EIA andEMP were reviewedbythe Bankandthe final
versions were submitted to the Bank inDecember 2004. The revised draft EIA was submitted to
SEPA inlate February 2005 for its final approval.

B. BriefProject Description

2.      Thisproject comprises (1) the construction of a 1,000-t-class navigation andpower
generation complex and (2) capacitybuildingthrough technical assistance, studies and training.
The complex is arun-of-river type damabout 18minheight and2.1 kminwidth, andincludes
90 MW power generators.

3.      The complex is located 17kmdownstream of Xiangfan City, the second largest city in
Hubei Province. The reservoir will extend33 kmupstreambeyond the city andits normal
capacity will be 245 million m3.The inundation areawill be limitedto the areanow flooded
 seasonally(98 ha).


                                                  49

4.      The HanRiver Development Planenvisages 16 dams on the river, amongwhich nineare
inHubeiProvince andseveninShaanxiProvince. InHubeiProvince, two damshave already
beenconstructed andthe Cuijiaying complex will bethe third. It i s independent fiom other dams
interms ofengineeringandeconomics. Oneofthe existingdams, Danjiangkou,is located 142
kmupstreamofthe Cuijiayingcomplex anditsreservoirisbeingenlarged andwillbe 100times
largerthanthe Cuijiayingcomplex. Accordingly, the design ofthe Cuijiaying complex will take
into accountthe new hydraulic conditions to be createdbythe raisedDanjiangkouDam.

C. ExistingEnvironment, PossibleImpacts, andMitigationMeasures

5.      Protected areas. The project i s near the second largest city inHubei and hasbeenunder
preparation for a longtime. The EIA report has confirmed that there were no protectednatural
areas around the project site. The result was also confirmed by aWetland Directoryfiom IUCN
andbya ChinaBiodiversity Reviewfiom the World Wildlife Fund. The areas to beinundated
are composedof flood lands (75%), farm lands (18%), andindustrial use (6%). The major part
o fthe inundation will occur at Yuliangzhou Island, which i s currently used as a commercial,
residential, andtourist area.

6.      Criticalnatural habitats and protected species. Inorder to identify critical natural
habitats, SHEIDIconducted document surveys, four field surveys with the participation of two
ecological experts fiom a localuniversity, andconsultation with local environmental andfishery
authorities. As aresult, (1) one o fthe natural fish spawningbedswas found at the upper stream
o fthe reservoir, and (2) one fish speciesthat belongs to the second-classo f nationallyprotected
species, catostomid fish, hasbeenidentifiedinthe river. Inaddition, eel were identified as a
migratory speciesto be impacted. Though they are targets of environmental protection, the EIA
does not regard them as "critical" becausethey exist not only at the project site but also all along
the middlereachesofthe river. A professor o fthe Aquatic Biological Institute ofthe Chinese
Academy of Science, invitedas an external reviewer, endorsedthe results o fthe survey.

7.      While impacts duringthe construction periodon the spawningbeds andfish species are
expectedto be small, separation ofhabitats by the complex would have some impacts. Thus, the
project will finance US$ 0.3 million for the construction o f a fish protectioncenter, which will be
 operatedbythe local fishery department. The center will hatchandrelease fiy ofthe affected
 species. A fishway will bebuiltinto the Cuijiaying dam to allow fish to swimupstream.

 8.     Culturalrelics. HPCD hiredthe HubeiProvincialInstitute o f Cultural Relics and
 Archeology to do a survey onthe impacts on cultural relics. This institute identifiedtwo ancient
 cemeteries that will be submergedon 2 ha each and recommendedexcavation andrelocation of
 tombs. Onei s located near the village o f Dukou and the secondis near the village o f Chenpo.
 The Dukousite is below the dambut inthe footprint ofthe cofferdam andwill be affected as
 early as July 2005. The other site will be submergedbythe reservoir when filled inJuly 2008.
 Accordingto "The ProgramReport of Cultural Relics Protectionon CuijiayingNavigationWater
 Power DamProject of HanRiver", revised January 24,2005 andprovided to the appraisal
 mission, the Dukou site will be excavatedinSeptemberand October 2005 and the excavation of
 the Chenpo site will take five months and i s forcastedto be finishedby the end of 2006.




                                                  50

9.      The analysis and excavation ofthe sites will also be implemented by the HubeiProvincial
Institute of CulturalRelics andArchaeology, under the leadership of the HubeiProvincial
Cultural Relics Bureau. The work i s financed by HPCD from the landacquisitionbudget. The
estimatedcost o f the analysis andexcavation is approximately RMB2.7 million ($0.3 million).

10.     Provisions to protect the cultural heritage sites are includedinthe Environmental
Management Plan. Construction ofthe cofferdam (inthe case o f the Dukou site) and filling of
the reservoir (inthe case ofthe Chenpo site) will notbe allowed to proceed untilthe provincial
cultural relics and archeology institute, under the guidance o fthe provincial cultural relics
bureau, has explored each site andtaken appropriate measuresto relocate whatever itjudges
warranted. Corresponding languagewill be includedinthe civil works contracts, coveringboth
the known sites andchance findings. Chinese law, procedures and institutionalcapacity are well
developed inthis area and fully meet the requirements of Bankpolicy. The safeguardsteam i s
satisfied that proceduresbeingapplied are technically sound and appropriate.

11.     Progressindealing with the two sites will bemonitoredbythe environmental monitoring
unitandreportedto the BankinHPCD's twice-yearly progressreports.

12.     Water pollution. Duringthe constructionperiod, necessarymitigationmeasuresto
ensurenational emission standards will betaken includinginstallationo f sedimentation ponds,
oil separators, and septic tanks for sewage. Duringthe operatingphase, the risk of
eutrophication is rather small becausethe detention time o fthe reservoir i s very short, about two
days, anda new public wastewater treatment facility, which will cover 60% of the city area
population, will start to operatebythe timethe Cuijiaying complex is completed.

13.     Water intakes. Upstream o fthe complex severalwater intakes will be inundated but
manywater intakes will take advantageofthe increasedwater level. Belowthe damthe nearest
water intake, which i s for industrialuse, i s located 1.5 kmaway.

14.     Residential areas, schools, and hospitals. The nearest residential area is 400m west of
the construction site and has a population of 206 people. Mitigation measuresfor dust andnoise
prevention will betaken. There are no schools andhospitals near the site.

15.     Materials transportation. The EIAhas identified quarries andborrow pits, and
examined the impacts ofmaterials transportation. Residential areas along the major routes have
been identifiedandprevention measuresfor noise anddust will betaken.

16.     Dumpingsites. Inaccordance with consultation with local governments, dumpingsites
havebeen selectedbehindthe riverbank. After the construction, the dumping sites will be
covered with vegetation. The materials to be dumpedwill come from the dam construction and
no dredgingwill be done. The wastes to be dumpedwill betested for heavy metals.

17.     Vegetation. Vegetation around the construction site will bereinstated after the
completion o fthe construction works.

18.     Construction camps. An annual health check will be conducted for construction
workers. The construction camps will be equipped with a drinkingwater facility and a


                                                   51

wastewater treatment facility. The sanitarysituation ofthe camp will be supervised frequently
duringthe constructionperiod.

19.    Transmission lines. The power plantwill be connectedto the gridfor the Xiangfan
Prefecture lessthan 1km from the dam. Along the new alignment, there are no sensitive spots
such as residential areas or natural habitats. No pesticides will beused.

20.    Alternatives analysis. Duringthe preparation o f the project, several alternatives were
examined interms o flocation andheight of the damas well as Without-Project alternative.
Minimizingthe extent ofresettlementwas the major factor to determine the locationof the dam.
The height o fthe dami s not so influential to the environmental protection because all the
alternatives arebelow the natural flooding level.

21.     Cumulative impacts. The EIA analyzed cumulative impacts o fthe plannednine dams in
HubeiProvince andidentifiedthe hydraulic impact as the major one. There are amix oflarge
reservoir-type dams, which would cause major impact on the hydrology, andrun-of-river type
dams, which would havelittle impact. Generally speaking, the impacts of separationof fish
habitats to be causedbythose cascadingdams would be limitedbecausethe distancesbetween
dams arelarge enough for ordinary species, but some species that needhabitats of greater length
would bemore seriously affected. However, practically speaking, there are no such species
except for eels, as the DanjiangkouDam was constructed inthe 1960s.

22.     Indirect impacts. The EIA analyzed indirectimpacts andidentifiedmotor vehicle
industryas one example ofthe mostpositivelyimpacted areas, thanks to the shift ofheavy traffic
fromroadsto the river. The EIA expectsno major environmental impacts from the future
operation ofthe transport industry since their performance regarding compliance with
environmental regulations i s satisfactory andthe modal shift oftraffic from roadto waterway
would decrease pollution.

D. EnvironmentalManagement Plan

23.     Environmentalmonitoring. Duringthe construction and the operation phases, the
project's actual impacts on the environment will bemonitored, to identifyunexpected
environmental problems at an early stage, andto adjust environmental measuresas appropriate.
Environmental monitoringwill be entrusted to a local environmental monitoringcenter. The
results ofthe monitoringwill bereportedtwice-yearly to the Bank, bymid-February andmid-
August eachyear starting with February2006, untilthe project is completed.

24.     Institutionalarrangements and training. HPCD will assign staffresponsible for
environment protection at eachlevel ofproject implementation, namely at the project office in
HPCD, at the Chief Supervision Office, with the sectoral supervision divisions, andwith each
contractor. To enhanceenvironmental protectionknowledge andskill, those staffwill receive
intensivetraining.

25.     Biddingdocuments. The EMP will be a part o fthe biddingdocuments andits
implementation will belegally bindingon each contractor.



                                                  52

E. PublicConsultationandInformationDisclosure

26.    A two-stagepublic consultation was carried out inaccordancewith the World Bank's
guidelines: (a) shortly after environmental screeningandbeforethe terms o freference for the
EAwere finalized (December 2003); and(b) after the draft EAreport was prepared(April 2004).
The consultation was conductedthrough meetings with the localpeople at the project-affected
towns andthrough surveys with questionnaires. Project-affected individuals, organizations of
concernedvillagers, andvillage committees were intensivelyconsulted. The major concerns of
the consulted people were relatedto the resettlement.

27.    Inmid-December 2004 the EL4andEMP weredisclosed attheprojectsite (Xiangfan
City) and HPCD (Wuhan City), as well as inthe Infoshop inWashington D.C.




                                                53

                            China: FifthInlandWaterways Project

                        Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision


                                                   Planned                    Actual
PCNreview                                                                  June 9,2004
InitialPID to PIC                                                          June 23,2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                        June 30,2004
Appraisal                                                                January 24,2005
Negotiations                                                              August 29,2005
Board/RVP approval                            October 11, 2005
Planneddate o f effectiveness                February 15,2006
Plannedclosing date                             June 30,201 1

HPCD preparedthe project, assistedby: (a) the HubeiCommunications Planning andDesign
Institute; (b) the HunanWater Resources andHydropower Investigations, Design andResearch
Institute for the engineering design ofthe Cuijiayingcomplex; (c) the SecondHarbor
EngineeringInvestigation & DesignInstitute for the environmental safeguarddocuments; (d)
BeijingUniversity for social surveys; and(e) Eastern ChinaPlanning& DesignInstitute for the
RAP.

Bank staffandconsultantswho workedonthe project included:

Name                                               Title                             Unit
GrahamSmith                Task Team LeadedSector Leader                           EASTR
John Scales                DeputyTeamLeadedSeniorTransport Specialist              EASTR
ZhangWenlai                Transport Specialist                                    EASTR
Han-KangYen                ResearchAnalyst                                         EASTR
XinChen                    ProgramAssistant                                        EASTR
EmmanuelPy                 Junior Professional Associate                           EASTR
Xiaowei Guo                Procurement Specialist                                  EAPCO
GengYi                     FinancialManagement Specialist                          EAPCO
ChaohuaZhang               Senior Social Sector Specialist                         EASSD
Naoya Tsukamoto            Senior Environmental Engineer                           EASEN
KekChoo Chung              Waterway Specialist                                    Consultant
Richard Scheiner           Civil Engineer                                         Consultant
HongyunLiu                 Hydropower Specialist                                  Consultant
JiangDai                   Hydropower Specialist                                  Consultant
Maria Lourdes Pardo/       Lawyers                                                 LEGEA
Margaret Png

Bankfunds expendedto dateonproject preparation:
     1. Bankresources:         $330,000
     2. Trust funds:                   0
     3. Total:                 $330,000



                                                54

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remainingcoststo approval:        $ 5,000
   2. Estimated annual supervision cost: $65,000




                                           55

                 China:FifthInlandWaterwaysProject

                 Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile




1.ProjectMngt




2. Technical




                                 56

                2.17 Seismic RiskAssessment       Report      HPCD            No      Draft      1-Jul-94
                     Report

3. ProcurementII3.1 IRevisedProcurement Plan    I  Plan        PMO            Yes     Draft     24-Jan-05
                3.2 IRevisedProcurement            Plan        PMO         II Yes II  Draft   II24-Jan-05
                     Schedule

4. Financial    4.1  FinancialMngt Manual          Doc         PMO            No    FirstDraft  31-Dec-04



5. Environment  5.1  EA Summary                   Report      HPCD            Yes
                5.2  EIA                          Report  2nd Harbor Eng.     Yes
                                                          Investigation &
                                                          Design Institute
                5.3  EMP                          Report  2nd Harbor Eng.     Yes     Final      24-Jan-05
                                                          Investigation&
                                                          Design Institute
                5.4  The ProgramReport o f        Report  HubeiProvincial     Yes
                     Cultural Relics Protection              Institute o f            Final
                     on Cuijiaying Navigation              Cultural Relics
                     Power DamProject o f the                   and
                     HanRiver                               Archaeology
                5.5  Outline Environmental        Outline 2nd Harbor Eng.     Yes
                     Assessment Report                      Inv.&Design
                                                              Institute


6. Social       6.1  RAP                          Report      Huadong         Yes      Final     24-Jan-05
                                                           Investigation&
                                                          Design Institute
                6.2  Work Outline for             Outline 2nd Harbor Eng.     Yes      Draft     Mar. 2004
                     Resettlement Report                    Inv.& Design
                                                              Institute
                 6.3 Social Assessment            Report    Social Survey     Yes      Final     24-Jan-05
                                                          Center o f Peking
                                                             University




                     andQuality ControlPlan
                 7.7 Preliminary Monitoring        Plan        HPCD           Yes      Draft     24-Jan-05
                     Equipment Plan
                 7.8 Safety andEmergency           Plan        HPCD           Yes      Final     24-Jan-05
                     Treatment Measure



                                                    57

                                          China:FifthInlandWaterwaysProject

                                       Annex 13: Statement of Loans andCredits


                                                                                                           Differencebetween
                                                                                                           expectedandactual
                                                        OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                         disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                              IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO57933    2005 CN-Tai BasinUrbanEnvironment         61.30       0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   61.30    0.00        0.00
PO73002    2004 CN-BasicEducationinWestemAreas       100.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   99.34   -0.66        0.00
PO84003    2004 CN-GEF GUANGDONGPRDURB                0.00       0.00     0.00      10.00   0.00   10.00    0.00        0.00
                ENV
PO66955    2004 CN-ZHEJIANG URBANENVMT               133.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  133.00    0.00        0.00
PO65035    2004 CN-Gansu& Xinjiang Pastoral          66.27       0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   64.41    7.08        0.00
                Development
PO69852    2004 CN-WuhanUrbanTransport               200.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  198.00  109.48        0.00
PO81749    2004 CN-HubeiShimanHighway                200.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  200.00    0.00        0.00
PO77615    2004 CN-GEF-Gansu& Xinjiang Pastoral       0.00       0.00     0.00      10.50   0.00   10.50    1.38        0.00
                Develop
PO77137    2004 CN-4thInlandWaterways                 91.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   91.00    0.58        0.00
PO75602    2004 CN-2ndNationalRailways(Zhe-Gan       200.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  200.00    0.00        0.00
                Line)
PO75728    2004 CN-GUANGDONGPRD URENVMT              128.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  128.oo    0.00        0.00
PO65463    2004 CN -Jiangxi IntegratedAgric. Modem.  100.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   99.00    4.73        0.00
PO67337    2003 CN-2ndGEFEnergyConservation            0.00      0.00     0.00      26.00   0.00   14.60    19.42       0.00
PO68058    2003 CN-YixingPumpedStorageProject        145.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  132.52    -2.80       0.00
PO76714    2003 CN-2ndAnhui Hwy                      250.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  247.50   25.08        0.00
PO40599    2003 CN-TIANJINURB DEV I1                 150.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  143.82     5.33       0.00
PO58847    2003 CN-3rdXinjiang HwyProject            150.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   92.81    10.72       0.00
PO70441    2003 CN-HubeiXiaoganXiangfan Hwy          250.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  135.32   -19.68        0.00
PO70191    2003 CN-SHANGHAI URBENVMTAPLl             200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  184.92     7.50        0.00
PO60029    2002 CN-Sustain.ForestryDev(Natura1         0.00      0.00      0.00     16.00   0.00   14.11     5.00        0.00
                Forest)
PO58846    2002 CN-Natl Railway Project              160.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   31.60     8.26        0.00
PO71147    2002  CN-TuberculosisControlProject       104.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   79.19   -24.81        0.00
PO70459    2002  CN-Inner MongoliaHwy Project        100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   85.60    11.27        0.00
PO68049    2002' CN-Hubei HydropowerDevinPoor        105.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   79.75    17.08        0.00
                 Areas
PO64729    2002  CN-SUSTAINABLEFORESTRYDEV            93.90      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   71.77     8.94        0.00
                 PROJECT
PO56199    2001  CN-3rdInlandWaterways               100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   71.36     7.02        0.00
PO51859    2001  CN-LIAORIVERBASIN                   100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   59.00    27.24        0.00
PO47345    2001  CN-HUAI RIVERPOLLUTION              105.50      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   81.08   -24.42        0.00
                 CONTROL
PO56516    2001  CN - WATER   CONSERVATION            74.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   31.14     7.24        0.00
PO56596    2001  CN-ShijiazhuangUrbanTransport       100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   85.41    60.04        0.00
PO58845    2001  Jiangxi I1Hwy                       200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   54.77  57.14     7.25        0.00
PO45915    2001  CN-UrumqiUrbanTransport             100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   46.16    46.16        0.00
PO49436    2000  CN-CHONGQING URBAN ENVMT            200,oo      0.00      0.00      0.00   3.70   146.15   76.65        0.00




                                                                58

PO58843 2000 GuangxiHighway                      200.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  87.29   45.19    0.00
PO42109 2000 CN-BEUINGENVIRONMENTI1              349.00   0.00   0.00 25.00   0.00  276.92 193.74    0.00
PO45910 2000 CN-HEBEIURBANENVIRONMENT            150.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  112.00  51.50    0.00
PO58844 2000 31dHenan Prov Hwy                   150.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  43.61   23.94    0.00
PO64924 2000 CN-GEF-BEUING ENVMTI1                0.00    0.00   0.00 25.00   0.00  23.32   20.76    6.17
PO64730 2000 CN Yangtze Dike Strengthening
                 -                               210.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  102.43 102.43    0.00
             Project
PO45264 2000 CN-SMALLHLDR CATTLEDEV               93.50   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    8.15   3.76    0.00
PO56424 2000 CN-TONGBAIPUMPEDSTORA               320.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  100.00 136.86 111.22    0.00
PO58308 1999 CN-PENSIONREFORMPJT                  0.00    5.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    1.16   1.17    0.00
PO43933 1999 CN-SICHUANURBANENVMT                150.00   2.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   84.94  85.43   29.36
PO57352 1999 CN-RURAL WATER N                     16.00  30.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   18.25  15.23   11.19
PO03653 1999 CN-ContainerTransport               71.00    0.00   0.00  0.00  18.61    2.71  21.32    0.63
PO41268 1999 CN-Nat Hwy4iHubei-Hunan             350.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   37.87  28.71    0.00
PO38121 1999 CN-GEF-RENEWABLEENERGY               0.00    0.00   0.00  35.00  0.00   21.87  30.28   11.80
             DEVELOPMENT
PO60270 1999 CN-ENTERPRISEREFORMLN                0.00    5.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    2.25   3.75    3.53
PO36953 1999 CN-HEALTH IX                         10.00  50.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   31.38  22.26   -0.91
PO41890 1999 CN-LiaoningUrbanTransport           150.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   23.52  23.52    0.00
PO42299 1999 TEC COOP CREDIT N                    10.00  35.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   34.23  -12.39   0.00
PO51705 1999 FujianI1Highway                     200.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   43.45  43.45    0.00
PO50036 1999 AnhuiProvincialHwy                  200.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   9.60   20.23  29.83    0.00
PO49665 1999 CN-ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV              90.00  30.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   15.79   11.95   0.00
PO46564 1999 CN  - Gansu & InnerMongoliaPoverty   60.00  100.00  0.00  0.00   13.30  30.71   27.54  -9.97
             Red.
PO46829 1999 RENEWABLEENERGY                     100.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   12.87   99.87  10.00
             DEVELOPMENT
PO46051 1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM              20.00   50.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    5.69    7.31   0.00
PO51856 1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM&                  27.40    5.60   0.00   0.00  0.00   17.60   17.51   0.00
             DEVELOPMENT
PO51888 1999 CN- GUANZHONGIRRIGATION              80.00  20.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   21.30   18.50   0.00
PO56216 1999 CN  - LOESS PLATEAUI1               100.00  50.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   14.86   17.00   -3.49
PO36414 1998 CN-GUANGXIURBANENVMT                 72.00  20.00   0.00   0.00  10.19  58.34   66.60  32.52
PO03619 1998 CN-2ndInlandWaterways               123.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  37.00  15.35   52.35   2.66
PO46563 1998 CN TARIM BASINI1
                 -                               90.00   60.00   0.00   0.00  2.67    2.55    5.85   0.00
PO35698 1998 HUNAN POWERDEVELOP.                 300.00   0.00   0.00   0.00 145.00  21.52  166.52   -9.25
PO03614 1998 CN-GuangzhouCity Transport          200.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  20.00 100.31  120.31  100.31
PO03606 1998 ENERGYCONSERVATION                   63.00   0.00   0.00  22.00   0.00  30.50   18.00    0.00
PO45788 1998 Tri-ProvincialHwy                   230.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  15.58   15.58    0.00
PO51736 1998 E. CHINNJIANGSU PWR                 250.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  86.00  40.55  126.55   16.12
PO49700 1998 CN- IAIL-2                          300.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.65    1.65    1.05
PO37859 1998 CN-GEF EnergyConservation            0.00    0.00   0.00  22.00   0.00   0.71   22.06    0.00
PO03539 1998 CN- SUSTAINABLE COASTAL             100.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.06  43.92   45.98   -0.40
             RESOURCESDEV.
PO46952 1998 CN -FOREST.DEV. POOR AR             100.00  100.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  21.97  -77.09   10.80
PO40185 1998 CN-SHANDONGENVIRONMENT              95.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   1.40  20.07   21.47   11.30
PO03566 1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH(HLTH8)               0.00   85.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  34.49   24.31    0.00
PO36949 1998 CN-NatHwy3-Hubei                    250.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  21.15   21.15    0.00
PO03590 1997 CN  - QINBAMOUNTAINS     POVERTY    30.00   150.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   3.20    6.55   -0.07
             REDUCTIOK
PO03637 1997 CN-NAT'L RURAL WATER 3               0.00   70.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.56    3.77    3.35



                                                        59

PO36405   1997  CN - WANJIAZHAI  WATERTRA         400.00        0.00    0.00     0.00     75.00     13.07     88.07        1.09
PO03650   1997  TUOKETUOPOWEWINNER                400.00        0.00    0.00     0.00    102.50    29.50     132.00       29.50
PO44485   1997  SHANGHAIWAIGAOQIAO                400.00        0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     70.45      48.55       51.67
PO40513   1996  20dHenanProvHwy                   210.00        0.00    0.00     0.00     19.00     12.88     31.88       24.88
PO03594   1996  CN - GANSUHEX1CORRIDOR             60.00       90.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      71.13     60.31        0.00
PO03599   1996  CN-%"AN      ENVMT                125.00       25.00    0.00     0.00     19.48     35.68     56.92        18.43
PO34618   1996  CN-LABOR MARKETDEV.                10.00       20.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       5.48      7.61        0.00
PO03602   1996  CN-HUBEIURBANENVIRONMENT          125.00       25.00    0.00     0.00     47.32     17.07     66.43        5.44
PO03639   1995  CN-SOUTHWEST POVERTY               47.50     200.00     0.00     0.00     0.01       1.26     25.36       25.36
                REDUCTIONPROJECT
PO03571   1995  CN-7th Railways                   400.00        0.00    0.00     0.00    119.00     10.28    129.28        10.28
PO03603   1995  CN-ENT HOUSING& SSR               275.00       75.00    0.00     0.00     57.46     38.05     93.43        9.75
PO03596   1995  CN-YangtzeBasinWater Resources    100.00     110.00     0.00     0.00      1.92      0.21      4.60        4.60
                Project
PO03540   1994  CN-LOESSPLATEAU                      0.00    150.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.71      0.04        0.00
PO03632   1993  CN-ENVIRONMENTTECHASS                0.00      50.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      0.86      1.44         1.12
                                            Total 11,829.37  1,612.60   0.00    191.50   945.99   5,155.81  2,833.99     408.82




                                                          CHINA
                                               STATEMENT OFIFC's
                                             Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                InMillionsofUS Dollars


                                                         Committed                              Disbursed
                                                       IFC                                     IFC
      FYApproval   Company                  Loan      Equity     Quasi   Partic.  Loan        Equity      Quasi     Partic.
      2002         ASIMCO                   0.00       10.00       0.00    0.00       0.00     10.00      0.00       0.00
      2003         Anjia                    0.00        2.00       0.00    0.00       0.00      2.00      0.00       0.00
      2004         Antai                    40.00       0.00       0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
      2003         BCB                      0.00        0.00      11.60    0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
      1999100102   Bankof Shanghai          0.00       24.67       0.00    0.00       0.00     24.67       0.00      0.00
      2002         CDHChinaFund             0.00       12.20       0.00    0.00       0.00      1.20       0.00      0.00
      2003         CSMC                     0.00       12.00       0.00    0.00       0.00      9.60       0.00      0.00
      2004         CUNAMutual               0.00       12.00       0.00    0.00       0.00      1.47       0.00      0.00
      1998         ChengduH m n g           5.61        3.20       0.00    6.25       5.61      3.20       0.00      6.25
      1998         Chengxin-IBCA            0.00        0.06       0.00    0.00       0.00      0.06       0.00      0.00
      1992         ChinaBicycles            4.50        0.00       0.00    0.00       4.50      0.00       0.00      0.00
      2004         ChinaGreen Ener          20.00       0.00       0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
      2004         ChinaII                  28.00       0.00       0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
      2004         ChinaReLife              0.00       15.41       0.00    0.00       0.00     15.41       0.00      0.00
      1994         ChinaWaldenMgt           0.00        0.01       0.00    0.00       0.00      0.01       0.00      0.00
      2004         ColonyCapital            0.00       17.31       0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
      2004         ColonyChina              0.00        0.96       0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
      2002         Darong                   10.00        1.50      0.00    8.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
      1995         Dupont Suzhou            6.23        0.00       0.00    0.00       6.23      0.00       0.00      0.00
      1994         DynamicFund              0.00        7.91       0.00    0.00       0.00      6.25       0.00      0.00
      2004         Fenglin                  19.00       6.00       0.00   18.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00



                                                             60

2003      Great Infotech              0.00     3.50   0.00    0.00    0.00   2.80    0.00  0.00
2002      HuarongAMC                  9.00     2.51   0.00    0.00    9.00   0.01   0.00   0.00
2004      IB                          0.00    52.18   0.00    0.00    0.00   52.18  0.00    0.00
2002      IEC                         20.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2004      Jiangxi Chenming            0.00    12.90   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1998      LeshanScam                  3.46     1.35   0.00    0.00    3.46    1.35   0.00   0.00
2001      MaanshanCarbon              8.25     2.00   0.00    0.00    8.25   2.00    0.00   0.00
2001      MinshengBank                0.00    23.50   0.00    0.00    0.00   23.50   0.00   0.00
2001      NCCB                        0.00    26.58   0.00    0.00    0.00   26.46   0.00   0.00
1996104   NanjingKumho                34.00    2.23   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2001      NewChinaLife                0.00    30.70   0.00    0.00    0.00   23.32   0.00   0.00
1995      Newbridge Inv.              0.00     1.95   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.95   0.00   0.00
1997      Orient Finance              5.71     0.00   0.00    7.14    5.71    0.00   0.00   7.14
2003      PSAM                        0.00     1.93   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1997100   PTPHoldings                 0.00     0.03   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03   0.00   0.00
2001      PeakPacific                 0.00     0.00   25.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003      SAIC                        12.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2004      SIBFI                       0.00     0.08    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2000      SSIF                        0.00     4.50    0.00   0.00    0.00    1.02   0.00   0.00
1998      ShanghaiKrupp               26.25    0.00    0.00  57.74   26.25    0.00   0.00  57.74
          ShanghaiMidway              0.00     16.02   0.00   0.00    0.00   16.02   0.00   0.00
1999      Shanxi                      15.16    0.00    0.00   0.00   12.61    0.00   0.00   0.00
1993      ShenzhenPCCP                3.76     0.00    0.00   0.00    3.76    0.00   0.00   0.00
2002      Sin0Gold                    0.00     4.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    4.00   0.00   0.00
2001      Sino-Forest                 20.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   15.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1995      SuzhouPVC                   0.00     2.48    0.00   0.00    0.00    2.48   0.00   0.00
2000      Wanjie Hospital             12.27    0.00    0.00   0.00   12.27    0.00   0.00   0.00
1996      Weihai Weidongri            0.69     0.00    0.00   0.00    0.69    0.00   0.00   0.00
2004      Wumart                      0.00     6.48    0.00   0.00    0.00    6.48   0.00   0.00
2003      XACB                        0.00     19.94   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2004      Xinao Gas                   25.00    10.00   0.00   0.00   25.00   10.00   0.00   0.00
1993      Yantai Cement               3.13     0.00    0.00   0.00    3.13    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003      Zhengye-ADC                 15.00    0.00    0.00   7.00    6.14    0.00   0.00   2.86
2002      ZhongChen                   0.00     5.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
                      Totalportfilio: 347.02  355.09  36.60  104.13  152.61 247.47   0.00  73.99




                                                    61

                                                  Approvals PendingCommitment
                                             ~~


FY Approval Company                            Loan     Equity     Quasi   Partic.

2002        ASIMCO                        0.00           0.00      0.01     0.00
2004        Antai                         0.00           0.00      0.00     0.04
2004        CCB-MS NPL                    0.00           0.00      0.00     0.00
2003        Cellon                        0.00           0.01      0.00     0.00
2004        ChenmingLWC                   0.06           0.00      0.00     0.16
2004        ChinaGreen                    0.00           0.00      0.01     0.00
2002        HuarongAMC                    0.02           0.00      0.00      0.00
2002        IEC                           0.00           0.00      0.01      0.00
2002        KHF                           0.00           0.00      0.00      0.00
2004        NCFL                          0.00           0.02      0.00      0.00
2003        PeakPacific2                  0.00           0.01      0.00      0.00
2004        SIBFI                         0.00           0.00      0.00      0.00
2002        SML                           0.00           0.00      0.00      0.00
2002        Sino Mining                   0.01           0.00      0.00      0.01
2002        ZhongChen                     0.00           0.00      0.00      0.03

                 Total pendingcommitment:      0.09      0.04      0.03      0.24




                                         62

                                            CN-FifthInlandWaterways Project

                                               Annex 14: Country at a Glance

                                                               East     Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Asia & middle-
                                                      China   Pacific  income       Development diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                       12810     1838      2,411                    Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                        950      950      1390
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                        128.1    1740      3,352                           T


Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(%)                                            0.8       10        t O
Labarforce@)                                             0.9       12        22                                           Gross

M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                                 primary
                                                                                    capita                            enrollment
Poverty(%of populationbelownatlonalpovertyline)            5
Urbanpopulation (%offotalpopulation)                     38        38       49
Lifeemtancy at birth(pars)                                71       69       69                            i
Infant mortality (per~OWlive births)                     30        33        30
Childmalnutrition (%of childrenunder5)                    n         15         11            Access to improvedwater source
Access to animprovedwater source (%ofpopulation)         75        76        81
Nliteracy(%ofpopu/afionage 159                            14        U         U
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschoolagepopulation)         a 6      n 6        111       -China
  Male                                                   a5       0 5        111                Low-middie-income group
  Female                                                 n 8      0 6        in         ~




KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                              1982     1992     2001     2002
GDP (US$ billions)                                                                   Economic ratios'
                                               2215    454.6    167.1    1,232.7
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                  332      36.2     38.5       410
worts of goods and ServicesiGDP                  8.9     8.5     25.5      29.5                         Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                     34.8     37.7     40.9      44.0
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                       35.1    38.0     40.0      43.8
Current account balanceiGDP                      2A       19        15      2.9      Domestic
InterestpaymentslGDP                             0.2     0.6       0.5      0.5      savings                          investment
Total debtlGDP                                   3.8     15.9     14.6      P.6
Total debt servicelexports                       8.0     8.6       7.7       6.1                           i
Presentvalueof debt/GDP                                            14.1
Presentvalueof debffexports                                       518                                 Indebtedness
                                    1982-92 1992-02    2001     2002 2002-06
(everageannualgrowth)
GDP                                      9.7     9.0     7.5       8.0       7.5         -China

GDP percapita                            8.1     8.0     6.7       7.2       6.6                 Lowr-middle-income aroUD
                                                                                            ~
                                                                                   ~1
STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                               1982    1992     2001      2002       Growth o f investment and GDP (%)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                     33.3     218      15.8      14.5
Industry                                        45.0    43.9      50.1      51.7
 Manufacturing                                  37.3     33.1     34.2      44.5
Services                                        21.7    34.3      34.1      33.7

Private consumption                             50.7    49.2      45.7      42.5
Generalgovernmentconsumption                    14.5     0.1      13.4      us
Imports of goods and services                    7.3     18.0     23.1      26.5                  -GDI          -GDP


                                            1982-92 1992-02                        Iroi
                                                                2001      2002
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                Growth of exports and imports (%)
                                                                                                                                I
Agriculture                                      4.6     3.7       2.8       2.9
industry                                         11.6    113       8.4       9.9
 Manufacturing                                   112     n.4       9.0        8.1
                                                                                   'to
Services                                         117     8.4       8.4       7.3
Privateconsumption                               114      8.1      2.8        1.9
Generalgovernment consumption                    9.9     8.4      n.5        7.O        1      97     98    99   00
Gross domestic investment                        9.5     9.7      u.9       14.9
Importsof goods and services                     9.7     P.8      n.8       27.5               -Exports        -Imports




                                                                    63

                                                                                                           I
                                             1992    2001    2002


                                               G 4     Q P     -0n
                                               1 9      la      3tt



                                              w 7      771     b@
                                               2 8      11
                                                ra     -4 7     onu
                                                                3



                                             1392    2001    2082     Export and import twots [US$ miff f

                                                                      dug))iI!




                                                     4 $80   %a%?>
                                                    a1a49   87,030
                                                                 78
                                                                 ilb
                                                                 BY


                                             5942    2401    2002




                                                     w i774


                                                             1?>422
                                                            4
                                                             9


                                            24      220051  287 731
                                                       8.5      83
                                                                               Ei;'
EXTERNAL DEBT Ifid R f S Q U R C E FLOWS
                                       2982 1492     2801    2402
(US                                                                   Campositidn of 20#2 d4bi (US$ mifi )
Tot                                         72128
 iBRD                                     u  5
 IDA                                      1  J                                           A: l2.331:1

                                             8 6 6
                                              .le0
                                                50

                                                                                                     I .  .
                                                       24u




                                                                                                         rm

                     China: FifthInlandWaterwaysProject

                                    Maps


IBRD33930 FifthInlandWaterways Project
IBRD33931 FifthInlandWaterways Project-Water SystemontheHanRiver
IBRD33932 FifthInlandWaterways Project-GeneralLayout ofthe CuijiayingNavigation&
          Hydropower Complex
IBRD34053 FifthInlandWaterways Project-Impact ofReservoir Inundation




                                      65


                                            100                                                   110                                                                                RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                                               CHINA

                                         FIFTH INLAND WATERWAYS                                                                                                                                               Gulian                                                           HEILONGJIANG


                                                           PROJECT                                                                                                                                     MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mangui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JILIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sea of
                                                            MAJOR NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS                                                                              XINJIANG           Mordaga                                                                                                       Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MONGOL                     LIAONING                              JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Heihe                           D.P.R. OF
                                                            RIVER PORTS                                                                                                                                                                   NEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BEIJING                              KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BEIJING
                                                            PREVIOUS BANK FINANCED RIVER PORTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HEBEI
                                                            SEA PORTS                                                                                                                                                                                              Wuyiling                 REP. OF

            50                                                                                                                                       50                                                                                                                                   KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANXI
                                                            PREVIOUS BANK FINANCED SEA PORTS                                                                                                                                                                SHANDONG          Yellow
                                                                                                                                                               Manzhouli                                                   NINGXIA                                                                      Tongjiang
                                                                                                                                                                                    QINGHAI                                                                 Bei'an              Sea
                                                            PREVIOUS BANK FINANCED SHIPLOCKS                                                                                                     Hailar                                                                          Hegang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GANSU

                                                            PREVIOUS CHANNEL IMPROVEMENTS                                                                                                                                         SHAANXI        HENAN               JIANGSU                       Shuangyashan
                                                                                                                                                                                               Songling                                                                          Jiamusi     East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Qiqihar          ANHUI
                                                            MAJOR ROADS                                                                                                                                                                            Cuijiaying
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dam     Suihua  R.         SHANGHAI     China
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HEILONGJIANG       Sea       Hulin
                                                            EXISTING RAILWAYS                                                                                          XIZANG                        Yirshi                                  Anda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                          SICHUAN                                               Han
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ZHEJIANG              Jixi
                                                            SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHONGQING  For details, see
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Harbin
                                                            PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33931
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mudanjiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Baicheng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GUIZHOU            HUNAN       JIANGXI
                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                               National                                                                                 FUJIAN                   Suifenhe
                                                                                                                                                                             Capital
                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                       YUNNAN                                                                   TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                           Province                                                  GUANGXI        GUANGDONG            Jilin
                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PACIFIC
                                                                                                                                                                             Boundaries                                                     Changchun
                                                                                                                                                                  MYANMAR                                                                                    HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tumen
                                                                                                                                                                           International                                                                MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tongliao                                                 JILIN                       OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                             Boundaries                 LAO             VIETNAM                                                  Songjianghe
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P.D.R.                            Siping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HAINAN                                     PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                           Erenhot

                                                                 MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                     Yuanbaoshan         120           Fuxin                          Fushun                                      130

                                                                                                                                                                  Huade                                                                LIAONINGShenyang                                                           40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Liaoyang
                                                                                                                 MONGOL                                                                                                                                Benxi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jinzhou                       Anshan
                                                                                                           NEI                                                                                                                                                                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Yingkou

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dandong                                                  of
                                                                                                                                             Jining                                                                                                             DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                 Hohhot                                           Zhangjiakou                                                                                                                           Japan
                                                                                                                                                                           BEIJING                                                                              REP. OF KOREA
                    To           Urumqi                                                                         Baotou                       Datong                                                              Qinhuangdao
                                                                                                                                                                  BEIJING

           Yumen                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dalian
                                                                                                                                                                               Tianjin          Tangu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bo Hai
                                                                                    Shizuishan                                                                                                   TIANJIN
                                                                                                                      Shenmu                                          HEBEI
                                                                      Yinchuan                                                                                                                                                                                                                REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                 Shijiazhuang                                             Yantai
                                                                                                                                                                                             Shengli                                                                                          KOREA
                                                         Wuwei
                                                                 Zhongwei                                                                Taiyuan               Hengshui            Dezhou

                                                                         NINGXIA                                                                                                                       Zibo
                                                                                                                                 Huang
                                                  Xining                                                  Yan'an    (Yellow Jinan       SHANXI                    Handan       Heze               SHANDONG                          Qingdao

                                                                                                                           River)         Changzhi
                                                                                                                                      He                                         Yanzhou                                 Shijiusuo             Yellow
                                 QINGHAI                        Lanzhou
                                                                                                                                          Houma       Jiaozuo                  Xeitai No.2
                                                                                                                                                                                  (IWW2)             Zaozhuang
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Grand
                                                                                                                                          Yueshan            Kaifeng        Shangqiu                                    Lianyungang              Sea
                                                              GANSU                         Tongchuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pixian
                                                                                                                                                                                      Xuzhou
                                                                                                 SHAANXI                                 Luoyang             Zhengzhou                                                                     Suqian No.3 (IWW2)
                                                                   Tianshui              Baoji    Xi'an                                                                            Huaibei                                                   Huanyin No.3 (IWW2)
                                                         For detail, see                                                                 Pingdingshan                                                                                         Huanian No.3 (IWW2)
                                                         IBRD 33931                                                                                                                                              JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                HENAN            Mengmiao                                                                       Jianbi No.2 (IWW2)
                                                                                                                                                                                          Bengbu
                                                                                                                                                                          Fuyang       Huainan                   Zhenjiang
                                                               Yangpingguan                                                                                                                                                                    Nantong
                                                                                                      Ankang                                                                                          Nanjing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Zhangjiagang
                                                                                                                  Han River                                                                                                                Wuxi
                                                                                                                                                  Xiangfan                                 Hefei                     Wuhu                             Shanghai                                                    30

                                                                                                                                       HUBEI        Cuijiaying                               ANHUI                        Huzhou                Jiaxing
                                                                                                                                                        Dam                                                   Tongling                                                Channel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Improvements    East
                                                                                                     Chang  Jiang                         (Yangtze                                                                                                                     (IWW1)
                                                                                                                                                                         Wuhan                        Anqing           Hangzhou                          Ningbo
                    XIZANG                                       Chengdu                                                                          River)                        Huangshi                                                   Bailutang                            China
                                                                                                                       Zhicheng                                                                                                       ZHEJIANG
            30                                        SICHUAN                         Da Xian                                                                                               Jiujiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jingdezhen                                                              Sea
                                                                        Chongqing                                                Shimun
                                                                                                                                                               Chenglingji
                                                              Zigong                                                                                                                                                      Xingtanbian
                                                                                   Xiaonanhai                                                                            Nanchang
                                                                                                                                                                      Zhuzhou Dam/                                                     Wenzhou
                                                                                      Luohuang                                                      Changsha        Shiplock (IWW3)
                                                                    Yibin                                                                                                                                Yingtan
                                                                                                                                                   Xiangtan                         JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                 Zhuzhou
                                                  Xichang                                                     Huaihua                      HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                       Pingziang                                 Shaowu
                                                                                                                                                                    Channel
                                                                                       Jiuchang           Zhijiang                      Channel Imp.(IWW3)       Improvements
                                                                                                                                          Dayuandu Dam                                                                 Laizhou
                                                                                                                                                                    (IWW1)
                                                                               GUIZHOU                                                     (IWW1)
                                                                                                                                                              Hengyang                                                    Fuzhou
             ANMAR                                                                  Guiyang
                                                Panzhihua                                                                                                            Le An                         Yong'an          FUJIAN
                  MY                                     Dongchuan                                                                                                                              Zhangping

                                                                               Hongshui
                                                                                                                 Guilin                                                                                                           Xiamen

                                            Kunming                                     He                                                                   Xiniu
                                                                                                                                                             Dam                                     Meixian                                          TAIWAN
                                           YUNNAN                       Right

                                                                               River                    Liuzhou
                                                                                     Naji
                                                                                     Dam                                                                     GUANGDONG                                       Shantou
                                                                              Baise                 GUANGXI                             Wuzhou                                               Longchuan
                                                                              Dam           (Youjiang)        Guiping                               Guangzhou
                                                                              (BMP)                      Guigang                                  Xijiang                    Shenzhen

                                                                                                                                                                                  Hong Kong
                                                                  Channel                   River         NanningYujiang                                                             HONG KONG
                                                              Improvements             Left                                                                                                                      Channel Improvements (IWW4)
                                                                   (IWW4)                                                                                      MacaoMACAO
                                                                                           (Zuojiang)                                                                                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                                Maoming                Channel Improvements (IWW2)

                          ANMAR                                                                          Beihai                                Guigang Dam (IWW1)
                                                                                                      Channel                             Shanjiang
                               MY                                 VIETNAM                          Improvements                                                                                            0                      100           200             300              400            500 MILES
                                                                                                      (IWW1)

                                                                                                                                                                                                           0                         200                400                  600               800 KILOMETERS
            20                            LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                                  Haikou

                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                             IBRD
AUGUST                                       DEM. REP.
                                                                                                               HAINAN                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information

            THAILAND                                                                                                                                      shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                       PHILIPPINES                                              33930
                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
      2005
                                    100                                                                                         110                                                                                                                       120

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 33931

                                106                                   107                         108                                                          110                              111                              112                           113                                 114

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                   Zhouzhi                     XI'AN                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
34                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                    34


                                                         Feng Xian                                          S H A A N X I
    GANSU                                                                                                                                                          Shang Xian

                                                                                                                                                                 Dan                                                                                                    H E N A N
                                                                                                                                                                    Jiang      Danfeng
                                                                       Liuba       He
                                                                        Bao
                                                  HeiHe                      Xushui

                                      Lueyang                          iuhS                                                   Xun     QianyouH
                                                                                                                                 He          e
                                           Huangjin                                Yang Xian                                                      Jinqian He

                                           Gorge                 Shiquan                                  He                                                                                                             Xi
                                                                                                     Ziwu
33                                         YudaiHe         Hanzhong                                          Shiquan                                                                                                 anuhC                                                                                                                                      33
                                                                            Xi River                                                                                                                                                                      Nanyang
                                                                                                                                                                                    Yunxi
                                                                                                                                               Shu River                                                                                                                                                               Zhumadian
                                                                                                                                                                      Jiahe RIver
                                                                                                                                                                            River
                                                                                     Muma He                   H anRiver                                                                               Han
                                                                                                                                                Xunyang                             Gushan                 River
                                                                                                                                   Ankang                                                         Shiyan                                     Nanyang   He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Danjiangkou              Bai       He
                         Guangyuan                                                                                           Ankang                                             uDHe                                        Danjiangkou                  Tang                                  Huai   He

                                                                                                                                                                                                                Laohekou          Wangfuzhou

                                  S I C H U A N                                                                                                                          Zhushan                                                   Xinji
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Xinyang

32                                                                                                                                                                                           Fang Xian          N anHe                                                                                                                                          32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Xiangfan   Cuijiaying Shipping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and Hydropower Project

                RUSSIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Suizhou
              FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yakou                        Yun Shui

                                                                 HEILONGJIANG                                           C H O N G Q I N G                                                                     H U B E I

       MONGOLIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dafu
                                                                  JILIN                                                                                                                                                                                         Nianpanshan          Shui
                                                                                                       CHINA
31
                                                           LIAONING                          WATER SYSTEM ON                                     Chang      Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yingcheng
                                  MONGOL                              D.P.R. OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Xiaogan
                                                                           Daxian                                                                                                       (Yangtze                                       Jingmen             Han                                                                                                   31



                               NEI    BEIJING                          KOREA
                                      BEIJING                                                 THE HAN RIVER
                                                                                                        Wanxian                                                                                     River)                                                    River
                                           HEBEI    TIANJIN
                                                                            REP. OF                                                                                                                              Yichang
                                                                                                    CUIJIAYING DAM                                                                                                                                                              Tianmen
                                   SHANXI                        Yellow     KOREA                                                                                                                                                                                  Huajiawan
                                                SHANDONG           Sea                              EXISTING DAMS
QINGHAI          NINGXIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Xinglong
                                                        JIANGSU                                     FUTURE DAMS                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WUHAN
           GANSU
                         SHAANXI     HENAN                                     East
                                                  ANHUI                                             TANGDONG IRRIGATION AREA
                                                                             China                                                                                                                           Zhicheng                                                                     Xiantao
       Area of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Shashi
                                                                  SHANGHAI                          S/N WATER TRANSFER AQUEDUCT
         Map                        HUBEI                                       Sea                                                                 Enshi
     SICHUAN                                                                                        HAN RIVER BASIN
                                                          ZHEJIANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         River)
30                                                                                                 RIVER PORTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30
                        CHONGQING
                                              JIANGXI
                                   HUNAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (Yangtze
               GUIZHOU                                 FUJIAN
                                                                                                    SELECTED CITIES

   YUNNAN                                                         TAIWAN                            PROVINCE CAPITALS
                           GUANGXI     GUANGDONG                           PACIFIC                  NATIONAL ROADS
              CHONGQING                            HONG KONG               OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                                                 Chang Jiang
                                            MACAO                                                   RAILROADS                                               0     25       50        75 Kilometers
     LAO       VIETNAM                                                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
       P.D.R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H U N A N
               106              HAINAN                        107
                                                               PHILIPPINES                      108                          109                          0           25             50 Miles       111                               112                             113                                          114

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AUGUST 2005

                                                                                                                                            CHINA
                                    GENERAL LAYOUT OF THE CUIJIAYING NAVIGATION & HYDROPOWER COMPLEX




                         Administrative
                              Buildings




                                                            Shiplock



                        Ac
                          cess                                                                                                Earthen

                              Road                                          Sluice Gates                                                  Dam

                                                                                         Power
                                                                                         House




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0   100              200   300         400  500

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       METERS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                    Huangjin Gorge
                                450
                       450
                                                     Shiquan                                                                                                                                                LEGEND:
                                            410
                       400                                          River
                                                                         Xi                                                                                                                                     Existing Complex

                                                     362                                  Ankang                                                                                                                Future Complex
                       350
                                                                               330



         (m)           300

                                                                                                       Xunyang     River
                                                                                                                                RIver
                       250                                                                       240
            Level                                                                                                       Shu
                                                                                                              218                    Jiahe  Gushan
                                                                                                                           196            181
                       200                                                                                                                                                                                   IWW5
                                                                                                                                                       170 (final)
                 Water                                                                                                                                                    Danjiangkou                       Cuijiaying
                                                                                                                                                       157 (earlier)

                       150

                                                                                                                                                                                        Wangfuzhou
                       100                                                                                                                                                           88                Xinji
                                                                                                                                                                                                   78                      Yakou
                                                                                                    Shaanxi                                       Hubei                                                                                  Nianpanshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                             64                                            Huajiawan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   57                                                       Xinglong
                        50                                                                          Province                                Province                                                                             51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      36.5




                          1300    1250            1200              1150      1100 1050 1000        950         900           850                 800  750        700  650             600           550       500   450          400                 350             300



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD
                                                                                                Distance from Yangtze River (Wuhan) (km)
MAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         33932
   2005

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 34053

                                                                                                                                                                To Gaoying               To Gaoying

                                                                                          CHINA
                                                 IMPACT OF RESERVOIR INUNDATION

                                                                                           62.23 METERS (ALTERNATIVE ANALYZED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Shuanggou

                                                                                           62.73 METERS (LEVEL ADOPTED)

                                                                                           63.23 METERS (ALTERNATIVE ANALYZED)

                                                                                           URBAN ZONES

                                                                                           MAIN ROADS

                                                                                           RAILROADS



                                 To Taipingdian


                                                                                        To Wanxian
                                                                                                                                         To Wanxian                                                                                                                             To Calyangpu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Shuanggou




           To Guanghua




                                                                                                            Han
    RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                          River                                  XIANGFAN


                                                              HEILONGJIANG                                                                                           XIANGYANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Yushan
   MONGOLIA

                                                                 JILIN
                                                                                  Sea of
                                                                                  Japan
                                 MONGOL                LIAONING                           JAPAN                                                                                                                                       CHINA
                              NEI                                    D.P.R. OF
                                    BEIJING                          KOREA
                                    BEIJING

                                                TIANJIN
                                         HEBEI                             REP. OF
                                                                           KOREA
                              SHANXI         SHANDONG        Yellow
QINGHAI        NINGXIA                                         Sea
         GANSU
                      SHAANXI       HENAN            JIANGSU
                                     CuijiayingANHUI                        East

                                     Dam           R.        SHANGHAI     China
                                                                            Sea
     SICHUAN                    HUBEI           Han
                                                        ZHEJIANG                        PACIFIC

                      CHONGQING                                                        OCEAN                                                                                                           To Fang-Chia-Chi

                                                                                                                    0   500     1000   1500  2000
              GUIZHOU            HUNAN     JIANGXI
                                                    FUJIAN
                                                                                    National                                  METERS                                            Cuijiaying
   YUNNAN                                                     TAIWAN                  Capital                           (scale approximate)
                         GUANGXI       GUANGDONG                                                                                                                                Dam
                                                                                    Province                                                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                              HONG KONG                                                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                          MACAO                                       Boundaries                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
    LAO      VIETNAM                                                                International                                                                                                                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
     P.D.R.                                                                           Boundaries
                           HAINAN                       PHILIPPINES                                                                                           To Yicheng

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AUGUST 2005

