Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4597 
Operation Name 
LR - Reengagement and Reform Support Program 2 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (80%);Mining and other 
extractive (10%);General industry and trade sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P113450 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF LIBERIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Liberia 
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 4, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 24, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
April 21, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Poor governance and nearly a
 decade and a half of conflict have left Liberia’s economy, 
institutions, and human capacity completely devastated.  Approximately 270,000 people were 
killed and about a third of the total population was displaced by the fighting.  The conflict left 
the once wealthy country in economic ruin, with its endowment in roads, railroads, electricity 
generation and transmission, potable water and sewage utterly destroyed. 
Liberia has made substantial progress on many fronts since the end of the civil war in 2003.  
Two rounds of free and fair elections in 2005 have led to the installation of a new government 
led by Ellen Johnson Sirleaf in January 2006, more than 81,000 ex-combatants have been 
demobilized and reintegrated, and most of the displaced peoples have returned and are being 
reintegrated into society.  Efforts are also being made to improve governance, including the 
empowerment of local government.  The economy is recovering rapidly, infrastructure is being 
rebuilt and the delivery of basic services in health and education is improving. Notwithstanding 
the progress, the current socio-economic environment which is characterized by widespread 
poverty, significant urban-rural divide and high unemployment and underemployment presents a 
very fragile country with non-trivial risks to maintaining the peace and security that is itself so 
critical to creating the space for reforms necessary to sustain the transition to long-term 
development. 
Liberia completed its first full Poverty Reduction Strategy in March 2008 which sets out the 
government’s priority agenda for the three year period from April 2008 to June 2011.  The 
comprehensive strategy builds on the gains made under the 150-day action plan and the Interim 
Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP).  The PRS process began in mid-2007, and included 
extensive stakeholder participation, through regional consultations across all 15 counties, 
thematic consultations, and specific stakeholder group consultations.  
Page  2
The PRS is built around four pillars which represent the core strategic areas of intervention: 
Peace and Security, Economic Revitalization, Governance and Rule of Law, and Infrastructure 
and Basic Services.  These four pillars also reflect some continuity with the pillars of the I-PRSP.  
In addition, six priority cross-cutting themes were mainstreamed through the pillar strategies, 
including gender equity, peace-building, environmental issues, HIV and AIDS, children and 
youth, and M&E.   
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The objectives of the proposed grant are to support government-owned ongoing reforms 
(articulated in the PRSP) to improve the country’s fiduciary environment, rebuild public 
institutions and improve the environment for private sector-led growth.  More specifically, the 
RRSP II focuses on: (i) improving the efficiency of budget preparation and execution and 
increasing the professionalism and improving the human resource management of the civil 
service; and (ii) improving the investment climate through the reform of the revenue and private 
investment regimes. The grant is an integral part of IDA’s Country Assistance Strategy for the 
period FY09-11 planned to be presented to the Board in Q4 FY09
 
and is closely coordinated 
with assistance provided to support the program of Government’s reforms through the ongoing 
Economic Governance and Institutional Reform Project (US$11 million), the Enhanced HIPC 
Initiative, the AfDB budget support operation and the IMF PRGF. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The overarching aim of the Bank’s new Joint Country Assistance Strategy (JAS) with the AfDB 
for the period FY 2009–11 is to support Liberia’s transition from post conflict recovery to long-
term development. More specifically, the strategy is focused on addressing selected key 
constraints to growth as well as enhancing the policy and institutional framework to ensure that 
growth is increasingly pro-poor.  The new JAS supersedes but builds on the joint Interim 
Strategy Note (ISN), which was discussed by the Board in June 2007, to support the 
implementation of the Government’s Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP).   
The new JAS, which is fully aligned with the PRSP pillars and objectives, will focus on three 
strategic objectives: (i) rebuilding core state functions and institutions; (ii) rehabilitating 
infrastructure to sustain economic growth; and (iii) facilitating pro-poor growth.  These 
objectives are aligned to Pillars II, III, and IV of the Government’s PRS but they also reflect the 
respective comparative advantage of the World Bank and the African Development Bank as well 
as the fact that other donors are leading in specific thematic areas.   
The proposed grant is an integral part of the JAS as it directly supports continuing and deepening 
government-owned policy reforms to rebuild core state functions and institutions and support 
private sector development by: (i) improving the efficiency of budget preparation and execution 
and increasing the professionalism and improving the human resource management of the civil 
service; and (ii) improving the investment climate through the reform of the revenue and private 
investment regimes.  
 
Page  3
4. Financing 
Source:  
($m.) 
IDA Grant 
US$4.0 
 Total 
US$4.0 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The proposed grant of US$4 million equivalent would
 be disbursed according to the Bank’s 
disbursement procedures for development policy lending.  The grant would be disbursed in one 
tranche upon effectiveness and is not tied to any specific purchases and no special procurement 
conditions will be required.  The funds will be deposited in the existing treasury account at the 
Central Bank of Liberia operated by the Ministry of Finance.     
The monitoring and evaluation capacity within Government is generally weak as there is not 
enough trained persons to collect and analyze data.  However, UNDP is providing support to 
strengthen the monitoring and evaluation capacity, specifically at the planning ministry and the 
department of statistics.  With the implementation of the PRS and other donor aligned strategies 
and framework of support such as the joint CAS and the UNDAF, the demand for M&E is high 
on an administration with very little human and institutional capacity.  Therefore, the Monitoring 
and Evaluation of this operation will be aligned to the M&E process that is already established 
for the PRS.   
6. Risks 
In the current environment of a country emerging from conflict, the proposed operation will be 
faced with significant country, fiduciary and implementation risks.  
Security risk
.
The security situation in Liberia remains fragile owing to the large number of 
(mostly) unemployed ex-combatants who have yet to be reintegrated into society, the lack of 
strong domestic institutions which can mediate conflicts and enable them to be resolved without 
recourse to violence, and the fragile political situation in some of Liberia’s neighbors. 
Political risk.  
Reforming the Public Financial Management (PFM), public administration and 
the investment framework will require significant legislative reforms.  However, the Government 
of President Sirleaf does not have a majority in the country’s Parliament and therefore may face 
difficulties in enacting its legislative agenda. 
Macroeconomic risk.  
Liberia is transitioning from post-conflict to economic reconstruction and 
development and has made progress in improving fiscal management.  However, the large debt 
overhang and the current global slowdown pose challenges and increase the country’s 
vulnerability to external shocks. 
Fiduciary risk.  
There are fiduciary risks from a failure to suppress corruption or failure of the 
government to make effective and efficient use of the fiscal space made available from budget 
support.  There is also a risk that incremental increases in government revenues may be 
reallocated to priorities outside the budget process. 
Implementation Risk
.
The very weak human resource capacity in the public service represents a 
main risk to the operation.  The public service has a dearth of well qualified middle and senior 
level staff, largely because of very unattractive levels of remuneration. 
Page  4
Risk Mitigation
.
These risks are mitigated respectively, through: (i) the continued commitment 
of the UN security forces; (ii) training for legislators and legislative staff and technical assistance 
to help the Government explain its position to legislators.  In addition, through communication 
outreach the Government will explain its policy position to build support from civil society for 
the proposed reforms; (iii) 
government’s adherence to a medium-term macroeconomic 
framework elaborated in the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) and supported by the IMF PRGF.  
The macroeconomic risk would also be mitigated by close economic monitoring and 
coordination by the Bank, the IMF and other donors; (iv) the establishment of transparent and 
accountable procedures for financial management and procurement in the context of the 
Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program (GEMAP); and (v) World Bank’s 
technical assistance to the Resource Management Unit and the Public Procurement and 
Concessions Commission (PPCC). 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
The proposed RRSPII is expected to have a positive direct impact on poverty reduction.  Firstly, 
the resources under the grant will generate fiscal space to allow the government to devote 
additional public resources towards its PRS objectives.  The government is committed to 
aligning the national budget with the PRS, and projects that 55-65 percent of its revenues will 
directly support poverty reduction activities. Given the Government’s limited resource envelope 
and large PRS funding gap any additional financing will further its ability to advance the poverty 
reduction targets. 
Secondly, the measures supported by the proposed grant would contribute to economic 
revitalization and the strengthening of public sector governance, by fostering transparent and 
efficient use of public resources.  The link between poor governance, economic inequities and 
conflict in Liberia are well documented.  In the past, public resources were utilized to the benefit 
a
small political elite, which heightened inequality and social instability.  By strengthening 
public financial management oversight functions the Liberian people will be empowered to hold 
its elected leaders accountable.  Parallel efforts to reform the civil service will strengthen service 
delivery and reduce challenges associated with patronage within the public sector. 
More specifically, the prior actions encourage the introduction of accounting software at the 
Ministry of Finance, with the aim of strengthening the budget execution process and producing 
accurate and timely financial reports that allow public scrutiny of government expenditure.  
Support for the development of an external audit function meeting international standards will 
likewise throw light on the government’s expenditure process and encourage legislative and 
public oversight.  By encouraging further improvements in the public procurement regulatory 
framework, this prior action improves the efficiency and timeliness of public procurement and 
increase value for money, in order to maximize pro-poor benefits from scarce public resources.   
The operation also supports the completion of the civil service reform strategy, which provides 
an ambitious agenda for the reform of Liberia’s bloated and inefficient civil service.  Over time, 
this is expected to lead to improved service delivery to vulnerable groups and reduce the 
occurrences of patronage that have heightened social tension in the past. However, the 
Government recognizes that in the short run, there may be some adverse poverty and social 
impacts, particularly related to the restructuring and rightsizing of the service, which will have to 
Page  5
be mitigated. In this regard, the Government has taken a number of steps from the beginning of 
the strategy to ensure that the potential adverse effects of the reform are mitigated. First, the 
process to develop the reform strategy was fully participatory and involved extensive 
consultations (supported by the World Bank) with all key stakeholders including: civil society, 
ministries, civil servants, the Civil Service Association and development partners. Second, the 
Government has established a stakeholders’ forum as a consultative body to guide the 
implementation of the reforms. This forum includes representation from the Civil Service 
Association, civil society and NGOs, the Chamber of Commerce, mass media, academia and the 
private sector. Third, the government recognizes that in its efforts to align the mandates of 
Ministries and Agencies with their organizational structure and human capacity needs there may 
be a net separation from the service. These will be mainly non-technical staff. In this regard, it 
proposes that where staff reductions are required, these will be informed by an agreed civil 
service redundancy policy. As far as possible, reductions will be achieved through normal end-
of-contract attrition or early retirement. Where layoffs are necessary, a fair and transparent 
process will be followed, severance compensation paid and job search counseling provided. In 
addition, to mitigate the poverty and social impact of any redundancy, the Government will 
develop a Redirected Workers Program that will involve the provision of training opportunities 
as well as micro-loans to qualified redundant workers.  
The government’s revision to the Revenue Code and the National Investment Code would help 
remove discretionary tax incentives that reduce public revenues and present opportunities for 
rent-seeking.  Such discretions have had crippling effects on the Liberian private sector in the 
past. Their removal is therefore expected to have a positive effect on investment and growth and 
consequently on employment and poverty reduction. 
 
8. Environmental Aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not likely to have 
significant negative effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources.
 
The reforms supported aim primarily to rebuild core state functions and institutions and support 
private sector development.  Since 2003, Liberia has approved a National Environmental Policy 
and enacted two major environmental laws—Environmental Protection and Management Law, 
and the Environmental Protection Agency Act, the latter which established the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) in April 2003.  The EPA became fully functional in 2006 with the 
appointment of a Board of Directors and a Policy Council.  In 2007, Liberia’s first State of the 
Environment Report was published, thereby establishing the baseline for monitoring 
environmental conditions and trends. 
During the implementation of the PRS the Government is committed to maintaining an 
environmental governance regime that will be capable of engaging effectively in regional 
cooperation with neighboring countries in the management of trans-boundary environmental 
resources and in the enforcement of international conventions.  Over the PRS implementation 
period, the Government will also: (i) ensure the strict application of Environmental Impact 
Assessment (EIA) requirements for all key infrastructure and industrial projects, and publish 
sector-specific EIA guidelines for infrastructure, forestry and mining; (ii) review the 
Environmental Policy and the Environment Protection and Management Law to identify priority 
subsidiary regulations and/or guidelines for their implementation; (iii) promote transparency and 
Page  6
accountability and raise public environmental awareness; (iv) conduct periodic workshops to 
inform and train staff from line ministries, agencies, the private sector and NGOs on their duties 
and responsibilities under national environmental laws; (v) strengthen the capacity of NGOs and 
civil society to monitor the implementation of agreements between timber and mining 
concessions, the Government, and communities and ensure that funds are channeled towards 
poverty reduction; and (vi) deploy EPA environmental inspectors in the remaining nine unstaffed 
counties. 
 
9. Contact point 
Contact: Errol George Graham 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-4671 
Fax:  
Email: EGraham@worldbank.org 
 
10. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
