                           PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                             CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                              Report No.: AB4536               Comment [OPCS1]: The report
 Project Name                    SECOND REENGAGEMENT AND REFORM SUPPORT                                         number is automatically generated by the
                                                                                                                Internal Documents Unit (IDU) and
                                 PROGRAM                                                                        should not be changed.
 Region                          AFRICA
 Sector                          Central government administration (80%);Mining and other
                                 extractive (10%);General industry and trade sector (10%)
 Project ID                      P113450
 Borrower(s)                     Republic of Liberia
 Implementing Agency             Ministry of Finance
 Date PID Prepared               January 21, 2009
 Estimated Date of               February 11, 2009
 Appraisal Authorization
 Estimated Date of Board         March 26, 2009
 Approval

1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Poor governance and nearly a decade and a half of conflict have left Liberia's economy, institutions, and
human capacity completely devastated. Approximately 270,000 people were killed and about a third of
the total population was displaced by the fighting. The conflict left the once wealthy country in
economic ruin, with its endowment in roads, railroads, electricity generation and transmission, potable
water and sewage utterly destroyed.

Liberia has made substantial progress on many fronts since the end of the civil war in 2003. Two rounds
of free and fair elections in 2005 have led to the installation of a new government led by Ellen Johnson
Sirleaf in January 2006, more than 81,000 ex-combatants have been demobilized and reintegrated, and
most of the displaced peoples have returned and are being reintegrated into society. Efforts are also
being made to improve governance, including the empowerment of local government. The economy is
recovering rapidly, infrastructure is being rebuilt and the delivery of basic services in health and
education is improving. Notwithstanding the progress, the current socio-economic environment which is
characterized by widespread poverty, significant urban-rural divide and high unemployment and
underemployment presents a very fragile country with non-trivial risks to maintaining the peace and
security that is itself so critical to creating the space for reforms necessary to sustain the transition to
long-term development.

Liberia completed its first full Poverty Reduction Strategy in March 2008 which sets out the
government's priority agenda for the three year period from April 2008 to June 2011.                    The
comprehensive strategy builds on the gains made under the 150-day action plan and the Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP). The PRS process began in mid-2007, and included extensive stakeholder
participation, through regional consultations across all 15 counties, thematic consultations, and specific
stakeholder group consultations.

The PRS is built around four pillars which represent the core strategic areas of intervention: Peace and
Security, Economic Revitalization, Governance and Rule of Law, and Infrastructure and Basic Services.
These four pillars also reflect some continuity with the pillars of the I-PRSP. In addition, six priority
cross-cutting themes were mainstreamed through the pillar strategies, including gender equity, peace-
building, environmental issues, HIV and AIDS, children and youth, and M&E.

2. Proposed objective(s)

The objectives of the proposed grant are to support government-owned ongoing reforms (articulated in
the PRSP) to improve the country's fiduciary environment, rebuild public institutions and improve the
environment for private sector-led growth. More specifically, the RRSP II focuses on: (i) improving the
efficiency of budget preparation and execution and increasing the professionalism and improving the
human resource management of the civil service; and (ii) improving the investment climate through the
reform of the revenue and private investment regimes. The grant is an integral part of IDA's Country
Assistance Strategy for the period FY09-11 planned to be presented to the Board in Q3 FY09 and is
closely coordinated with assistance provided to support the program of Government's reforms through
the ongoing Economic Governance and Institutional Reform Project (US$11 million), the Enhanced
HIPC Initiative, the AfDB budget support operation and the IMF PRGF.

3. Preliminary description

The proposed operation supports a continuation of key policy reforms being pursued by the
Government. Specifically, it supports actions in three key areas: (i) improving the legislative framework
and systems for improving fiscal management and oversight; (ii) the development of a strategy for civil
service reforms; and (iii) the revision of the investment code to improve ad hoc incentives. These actions
supported by the operations are expected to result in:
·   Enhanced, transparent, legislatively-overseen controls on revenues and expenditures
·   Strengthened, effective and efficient public institutions and functions as well as improved, more
    efficient, responsive, and transparent governance
·   Improved environment for private sector investment

4.      Environment Aspects
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not likely to have
significant negative impacts on the country's environment, forests and other natural resources. The
reforms supported aim primarily to rebuild core state functions and institutions and support private
sector development. Since 2003, Liberia has approved a National Environmental Policy and enacted
two major environmental laws--Environmental Protection and Management Law, and the
Environmental Protection Agency Act, the latter which established the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) in April 2003. The EPA became fully functional in 2006 with the appointment of a
Board of Directors and a Policy Council. In 2007, Liberia's first State of the Environment Report was
published, thereby establishing the baseline for monitoring environmental conditions and trends.

During the implementation of the PRS the Government is committed to maintaining an environmental
governance regime which will be capable of engaging effectively in regional cooperation with
neighboring countries in the management of trans-boundary environmental resources and in the
enforcement of international conventions. Over the PRS implementation period, the Government will
also: (i) ensure the strict application of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) requirements for all
key infrastructure and industrial projects, and publish sector-specific EIA guidelines for infrastructure,
forestry and mining; (ii) review the Environmental Policy and the Environment Protection and
Management Law to identify priority subsidiary regulations and/or guidelines for their implementation;
(iii) promote transparency and accountability and raise public environmental awareness; (iv) conduct
periodic workshops to inform and train staff from line ministries, agencies, the private sector and NGOs
on their duties and responsibilities under national environmental laws; (v) strengthen the capacity of
NGOs and civil society to monitor the implementation of agreements between timber and mining
concessions, the Government, and communities and ensure that funds are channeled towards poverty
reduction; and (vi) deploy EPA environmental inspectors in the remaining nine unstaffed counties.

5.      Poverty and Social Impact
The proposed Operation is expected to have a significant positive direct impact on poverty reduction.
Firstly, the resources under the grant will generate fiscal space to allow the government to devote
additional public resources towards its PRS objectives. The government is committed to aligning the
national budget with the PRS, and projects that 55-65 percent of its revenues will directly support
poverty reduction activities. However, given its limited resource envelope and large PRS funding gap,
any additional financing will enhance the government's ability to advance its poverty reduction targets.

Secondly, the measures supported by the proposed grant would contribute to economic revitalization and
the strengthening of public sector governance, by fostering transparent and efficient use of public
resources. The link between poor governance, economic inequities and conflict in Liberia are well
documented. In the past, public resources were utilized to the benefit a small political elite, which
heightened inequality and social instability. By strengthening public financial management oversight
functions the Liberian people will be empowered to hold its elected leaders accountable. Parallel efforts
to reform the civil service will strengthen service delivery and reduce challenges associated with
patronage within the public sector.

6.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The proposed grant of US$4 million will be disbursed according to the Bank's disbursement procedures
for development policy lending. The grant will be disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness and is
not tied to any specific purchases and no special procurement conditions will be required. The funds
will be deposited in the existing treasury account at the Central Bank of Liberia operated by the Ministry
of Finance. If, after being deposited in this account, the proceeds of the Grant are used for ineligible
purposes as defined in the Financing Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to refund the amount
directly to IDA.

The administration and accounting for the Grant proceeds will be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance.    The Government will maintain accounts and records, or ensure that such records are
maintained showing that the Grant disbursement were in accordance with provisions of the financing
agreement. Such accounts and records will be maintained in a form acceptable to the Bank. The
Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the operation's administration and for preparing the
withdrawal application, and maintaining the deposit account as required. As a due diligence measure,
IDA will obtain confirmation from the government that all these flows have been accounted for in the
country's budget management system (within 30 days of disbursement).

The monitoring and evaluation capacity within Government is generally weak as there is not enough
trained persons to collect and analyze data. The MOF is no exception. However, UNDP is providing
support to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation capacity specifically at the planning ministry and
the department of statistics. With the implementation of the PRS and other donor aligned strategies and
framework of support such as the joint CAS and the UNDAF; the demand for M&E is high on an
administration with very little human and institutional capacity.        Therefore, the Monitoring and
Evaluation of this operation will be aligned to the M&E process that is already established for the PRS.

7.      Risks
In the current environment of a country emerging from conflict, the proposed operation will be faced
with significant country, fiduciary and implementation risks.

Security risk.  The security situation in Liberia remains fragile owing to the large number of (mostly)
unemployed ex-combatants who have yet to be reintegrated into society, the lack of strong domestic
institutions which can mediate conflicts and enable them to be resolved without recourse to violence,
and the fragile political situation in some of Liberia's neighbors.
Political risk. Reforming the Public Financial Management (PFM), public administration and the
investment framework will require significant legislative reforms.        However, the Government of

President Sirleaf does not have a majority in the country's Parliament and therefore may face difficulties
in enacting its legislative agenda.
Macroeconomic risk.        Liberia is transitioning from post-conflict to economic reconstruction and
development and has made progress in improving fiscal management.               However, the large debt
overhang and the current global slowdown pose challenges and increase the country's vulnerability to
external shocks.
Fiduciary risk.     There are fiduciary risks from a failure to suppress corruption or failure of the
government to make effective and efficient use of the fiscal space made available from budget support.
There is also a risk that incremental increases in government revenues may be reallocated to priorities
outside the budget process.
Implementation Risk. The very weak human resource capacity in the public service represents a main
risk to the operation. The public service has a dearth of well qualified middle and senior level staff,
largely because of very unattractive levels of remuneration.
Risk Mitigation. These risks are mitigated respectively, through: (i) the continued commitment of the
UN security forces; (ii) training for legislators and legislative staff and technical assistance to help the
Government explain its position to legislators.      In addition, through communication outreach the
Government will explain its policy position to build support from civil society for the proposed reforms;
(iii) government's adherence to a medium-term macroeconomic framework elaborated in the Poverty
Reduction Strategy (PRS) and supported by the IMF PRGF. The macroeconomic risk would also be
mitigated by close economic monitoring and coordination by the Bank, the IMF and other donors; (iv)
the establishment of transparent and accountable procedures for financial management and procurement
in the context of the Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program (GEMAP); and (v)
World Bank's technical assistance to the Resource Management Unit and the Public Procurement and
Concessions Commission (PPCC).


8. Tentative financing
Source:                                                                         ($m.)
IDA Grant                                                                       US$4.0
                                                                        Total   US$4.0

9. Contact point

Contact:        Errol George Graham
Title:          Senior Economist, AFTP4
Telephone:      202-458-4671
Fax:            202-473-8136
Email:          egraham@worldbank.org

