                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001762



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H4920)



                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.7 MILLION
                       (US$ 4.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                     REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA BORROWER

                                    FOR A

  SECOND RE-ENGAGEMENT AND REFORM SUPPORT PROGRAM PROJECT



                              December 15, 2010




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department West Africa 1
Africa Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2010)

                   Currency Unit = Liberian Dollar
                       US$ 1.00 = LR$69.50

                            FISCAL YEAR
                            July 1 ­ June 30


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB      African Development Bank
BOB       Bureau of the Budget
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBL       Central Bank of Liberia
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CISCAB    Civil Service Capacity Building
CMC       Cash Management Committee
CWIQ      Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DP        Decision Point under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative
ECOWAS    Economic Community of Western African States
EGSC      Economic Governance Steering Committee
EGRIP     Economic Governance and Institutional Reform Project
EITI      Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
EU        European Union
FDI       Foreign direct investment
FY        Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEMAP     Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program
GFRP      Global Food Crisis Response Program
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
JCAS      Joint Country Assistance Strategy
JISN      Joint Interim Strategy Note
LECAP     Liberia Expenditure Control and Accounting Program
LACE      Liberian Association for Community Empowerment
LEITI     Liberia Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
LIC-DSA   Low-income country debt sustainability analysis
LICUS     Low Income Countries Under Stress
LISGIS    Liberia Institute of Statistics and Geo-Information Services
LRDC      Liberia Reconstruction and Development Committee
MoF       Ministry of Finance
NIC       National Investment Code



                                  ii
NGOs     Non-governmental Organizations
NTGL     National Transitional Government of Liberia
PFM      Public Financial Management
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRS      Poverty Reduction Strategy
PEMFAR   Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PPCC     Public Procurement and Concessions Commission
RRSP I   Re-engagement and Reform Support Program-I
RRSPII   Second Re-engagement and Reform Support Program Grant
SMP      Staff Monitored Programs
SOE      State-Owned Enterprise
UN       United Nations
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNMIL    United Nations Mission in Liberia
UNSC     United Nations Security Council
USAID    United States Agency for International Development




                   Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                 Country Director:Ishac Diwan
                 Sector Manager:   Miria A. Pigato
               Task Team Leader: Errol G. Graham
                ICR Team Leader James A. Hanson




                               iii
 
                       REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
           RE-ENGAGEMENT AND REFORM SUPPORT PROGRAM II


                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 22
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 24
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 25
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 27
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
Annex 7: Liberia Map Number 33435R2..................................................................... 29




                                                        iv
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          LR - Reengagement
Country:                Liberia                 Program Name:             and Reform Support
                                                                          Program 2
Program ID:             P113450                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H4920
ICR Date:               12/21/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          LIBERIA
Original Total
                        XDR 2.7M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 2.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 2.7M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/03/2009     Effectiveness:             06/25/2009         06/25/2009
Appraisal:            03/12/2009     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/21/2009     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010         06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                         Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     90                  90
General industry and trade sector                                     10                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               20                  20
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      60                  60
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                     10                  10
Tax policy and administration                                         10                  10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Ishac Diwan                          Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:            Miria A. Pigato                      Antonella Bassani
Program Team Leader:       Errol George Graham                  Errol George Graham
ICR Team Leader:           James A. Hanson
ICR Primary Author:        James A. Hanson

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the proposed grant are to support government-owned ongoing reforms
(articulated in the PRSP) to improve the country's fiduciary environment, rebuild public
institutions and improve the environment for private sector-led growth. More
specifically, the RRSP II focuses on: (i) improving the efficiency of budget preparation
and execution and increasing the professionalism and improving the human resource


                                                vi
management of the civil service; and (ii) improving the investment climate through the
reform of the revenue and private investment regimes.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target       Completion or
                                             documents)          Values        Target Years
                   Average variance between budget out-turn and legislated budget for each
Indicator 1 :
                   ministry
Value
(quantitative or   19 percent              15 percent                          1.7 Percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/29/2007              06/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      % of value of non-competitive procurement without justification
Value
                                           No more than 20
(quantitative or   80 percent                                                  9.2
                                           percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2008              06/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
                   Data for actual value based on information available for only three quarters of
(incl. %
                   the 2009/10 fiscal year.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      % of Civil Servants captured in the Biometrics system
Value
(quantitative or   None                    100 percent                         70 Percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2008              06/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
                   The target was not met due largely to the underestimation of the funding
(incl. %
                   requirement for the work including covering the rural counties.
achievement)
                   Audit reports for five high risks Ministries and Agencies completed by the
Indicator 4 :
                   GAC and submitted to the Legislature
                                             External audit of                 External audit of
                                             the central                       the central
                                             government's                      government's
Value
                                             accounts submitted                accounts submitted
(quantitative or   No external audits done
                                             to the Legislature                to the Legislature
Qualitative)
                                             within nine                       within nine months
                                             months of the year                of the year end for
                                             end for FY08/09.                  FY08/09.



                                                vii
Date achieved      06/30/2008                06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   % automaticity in the approval of investment incentives (measured as a share
Indicator 5 :
                   of the total number of incentives)
Value                                                                        No assessment
(quantitative or   Nil                      100 percent                      possible due to lack
Qualitative)                                                                 of data
Date achieved      06/30/2008               06/30/2010                       06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           No data is available to assess the achievement of the indicator
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                      Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
                   Timely budget reports being produced by the Comptroller General in the
Indicator 1 :
                   Ministry of Finance.
                                                                           Timely budget
                                          Timely budget
                                                                           report being
Value                                     report being
                   No budget reports                                       produced and
(quantitative or                          produced by the
                   produced                                                published by the
Qualitative)                              Ministry of
                                                                           Ministry of
                                          Finance.
                                                                           Finance.
Date achieved      06/30/2008             06/30/2010                       06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1      07/17/2009           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2      11/30/2009           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     4.31


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                viii
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.    In August 2003 Liberia entered a new era with the signing of the Accra
Comprehensive Peace Agreement. The previous 14-year conflict (1989-2003) killed an
estimated 270,000 Liberians; involved much of the population in civil conflict; left the
country as one of the poorest in the world, with a per capita income of US$163 in 2005
and 64 percent of the population in poverty; made delivery of education and health
services nearly impossible; and destroyed the country's public and private infrastructure.
The free and fair legislative and presidential elections of November 2005 resulted in the
inauguration of Africa's first democratically elected female president, in January 2006.
The president's party did not have a majority in parliament, however, active interactions
with the opposition and civil society led to support for enactment of many reforms and
progress on many fronts. The next national elections are scheduled for November 2011.

2.     Liberia's economy has been recovering since 2006. The recovery is driven by
agriculture; inflows from and spending by international donors; and initiation of new
businesses and economic activity in the new climate. Real GDP growth rose from an
estimated 5.3 percent in 2005 to 7.8 percent in 2006,1 with inflation in single digits. GDP
growth accelerated to 9.4 percent in 2007 and was estimated at 7.1 percent in 2008 before
it fell to an estimated 4.6 percent in 2009 as demand for exports fell during the worldwide
recession. Inflation rose to 14.7 percent in 2007 (year-end to year-end), largely reflecting
the worldwide rise in commodity prices. Inflation fell back to 9.4 percent in 2008.
Revenues--which had evaporated owing to the collapse in economic activity combined
with widespread rent-seeking behavior in the customs and revenue administrations--rose
by 16 percent in the five months after the new Government took office, and increased by
an additional 74 percent in FY 2006-07 over FY05/06. The fiscal accounts, including
grants were in surplus through 2008. However, the current account of the balance of
payments remained in large deficit, financed largely by donor grants, foreign direct
investment and expenditures by UNMIL.

3.    After assuming office in 2006, Liberia's government faced a major external
debt problem. At end-June 2007, Liberia's public and publicly guaranteed external debt
reached an estimated US$4.7 billion or 645 percent of GDP (including arrears,
capitalized interest, and penalties), most of which was in arrears. This debt included
US$1.6 billion in multilateral debt to the IMF, World Bank, and AfDB;2 bilateral debt
(primarily to Paris Club creditors) of US$1.4 billion; and commercial debt estimated at
US$1.6 billion.3 This debt and the associated debt service were clearly unsustainable.


1
  Both the IMF and the World Bank agree that GDP is not well-estimated in Liberia and efforts are ongoing to improve
Liberian statistics in general. The total GDP is probably underestimated.
2
  The IMF and IDA/IBRD were Liberia's largest creditors, accounting for approximately 17 percent and 9 percent of
total claims, respectively.
3
  Commercial debt was estimated at US$1.1-1.6 billion; however, the exact amount of commercial debt was uncertain
at the time, owing to the destruction of most debt records during the conflict and multiple lootings and fires at the
Addressing the debt problem required substantial support, including unusually deep relief
from the international community.4

4.    The first Re-engagement and Reform Support Program IDA Grant (RRSPI)
was approved in December 2007 to assist in debt reduction. Since Liberia was at high
risk of debt distress, the RRSPI's single tranche, was provided on grant terms, and the
proceeds were disbursed to: (i) provide direct reimbursement of a bridge loan of
US$376.6 million to clear Liberia's arrears to IBRD and IDA and (ii) support cash flow
needs in the period immediately after Liberia cleared its arrears to the IBRD and IDA,
including future debt service obligations. By normalizing relations between Liberia and
the World Bank through clearance of Liberia's arrears, and supporting the Government's
efforts to establish a rigorous fiscal program for the Liberian economy, the RRSPI
supported Liberia's accelerated recovery and growth in the context of a multi-donor re-
engagement process.

5.    Liberia completed its first full Poverty Reduction Strategy in March 2008 that
sets out the government's priority agenda for the three year period from April 2008
to June 2011. The comprehensive strategy builds on the gains made under the 150-day
action plan and the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP). The PRS process
began in mid-2007, and included extensive stakeholder participation, through regional
consultations across all 15 counties, thematic consultations, and specific stakeholder
group consultations. The PRS is built around four pillars, which represent the core
strategic areas of intervention: Peace and Security, Economic Revitalization, Governance
and Rule of Law, and Infrastructure and Basic Services. In addition, six priority cross-
cutting themes were mainstreamed through the pillar strategies, including gender equity,
peace-building, environmental issues, HIV and AIDS, children and youth, and
monitoring and evaluation (M&E).

6.     Following the PRS, the Bank prepared a Joint Country Assistance Strategy
(JAS) with the AfDB for the period FY 09­12 to support Liberia's transition from
post conflict recovery to long-term development. The JAS which was discussed at the
Board on April 21, 2009 is focused on addressing selected key constraints to growth as
well as enhancing the policy and institutional framework to ensure that growth is
increasingly pro-poor. The JAS, which is fully aligned with the PRSP pillars and
objectives, focuses on three strategic objectives: (i) rebuilding core state functions and
institutions; (ii) rehabilitating infrastructure to sustain economic growth; and (iii)
facilitating pro-poor growth.




Ministry of Finance, and the fact that much of the debt was no longer owned by the original creditors. Liberia's
estimated commercial debt was unusually large, compared with other HIPC countries, because, in part, Liberia's
middle-income status in the 1980s had allowed it to borrow commercially more readily than other HIPC countries.
4
  The sizes of the arrears and debt were exceptionally large relative to Liberia's estimated GDP (US$500 million). The
ratio of the net present value (NPV) of Liberia's external debt-to-export was 1,567 percent at end-June 2007, far above
the threshold under the HIPC Initiative; the debt-to-GDP ratio was 263 percent. Debt service due in 2007 was
equivalent to 16 percent of GDP.



                                                        2
7.    The Second Re-engagement and Reform Support Program IDA Grant (RRSPII) of
SDR 2.7 million (US$4 million) was designed to support the objectives of the Joint
Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank and the African Development Bank
(JCAS) and of the Liberian government and its PRS. The RRSPII was coordinated with
the Bank's Economic Governance and Institutional Reform Project (EGRIP) and the
Enhanced HIPC initiative, the African Development Bank (AfDB) budget support
operations, and the IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). The IDA funds
for RRSPII were on grant terms, since Liberia was at high risk of debt distress and was
eligible for annual, exceptional, post-conflict IDA allocations. The value added of the
operation is that it contributed directly to the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy
objectives of rebuilding core state functions and institutions and economic revitalization
as well as supported Liberia's efforts toward achieving HIPC completion point.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.   The objectives of the RRSPII grant are to support government-owned ongoing
reforms (articulated in the PRSP) to improve the country's fiduciary environment,
rebuild public institutions and improve the environment for private sector-led
growth. More specifically, the RRSP II focuses on: (i) improving the efficiency of
budget preparation and execution and increasing the professionalism and improving the
human resource management of the civil service; and (ii) improving the investment
climate through the reform of the revenue and private investment regimes.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification


9.   The PDOs and indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)


10. The overall aim of the JCAS and the government's Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy (I-PRSP) and the current Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) is to ensure
Liberia's transition from post-conflict recovery to long-term development. The focus
is on three key policy areas:

       (i) Rebuilding core state functions and institutions and improving public sector
       management and transparency;

       (ii) Rehabilitating infrastructure to sustain economic growth; and

       (iii) Facilitating pro-poor growth.

11. The RRSPII supports a specific subset of key policy reforms under areas (i)
and (iii), to rebuild core state functions and institutions, improve public sector
management and transparency, and facilitate pro-poor growth by: (i) improving the



                                             3
efficiency of budget preparation and execution and increasing the professionalism and
improving the human resource management of the civil service; and (ii) improving the
investment climate through the reform of the revenue and private investment regimes.

Policy area I: Rebuilding core state functions and institutions

12. In the policy area of rebuilding core state functions and institutions, RRSPII
focused on four core areas. These were: (i) extending the use of the interim system for
accounting and reporting in the Ministry of Finance by providing access to the system to
the Comptroller General office to facilitate the preparation of timely budget reports; (ii)
improving the legislative framework for public financial management by submitting to
Parliament a Public Finance Act, as well as amendments to the Public Procurement and
Concessions Act (PPCA); preparing implementing regulations, manuals and instructions
for implementing the PPCA; (iii) approving by Cabinet a comprehensive Civil Service
Reform Strategy and publish it; and (iv) auditing of Government accounts for key
ministries for FY05-06 and FY06-07.

Policy area 2: Facilitating Pro-poor growth

13. In the policy area of facilitating pro-poor growth RRSPII focused on two
important legislative actions. These were: (i) submitting to Parliament a bill reforming
the Liberia Revenue code thereby reducing the scope for discretionary, ad hoc fiscal
incentives; and (ii) submitting to Parliament a bill reforming the National Investment
Code, to eliminate ad hoc incentives to individual investors.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

14.   The policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes

15. There were no significant changes in design, scope and scale, implementation
arrangements, or funding.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

16. The RRSPII was a single tranche operation. The operation was approved on May
21, 2009 and became effective on June 25, 2009. All five prior actions were fully
implemented (Table 1).




                                           4
Table 1: Liberia RRSPII Prior Actions and Status at Project Presentation
                            Prior Actions                               Implementation Status at Project Presentation

I. Rebuilding Core State Functions and Strengthening Public Sector Management and Transparency
1. Extend the use of the interim system for accounting and reporting in  Implemented: Access to the accounting and
the Ministry of Finance by providing access to the system to the        reporting system (SunSystem) has been provided
Comptroller General Office to facilitate the preparation of timely      to the Comptroller General Office and the first
budget reports.                                                         budget report was produced in August 2008.

2. Improve the legislative framework for public financial management       Implemented: A Public Finance Management
by submitting to the Parliament a Public Finance Management Act, as       Act (PFM) was passed in September 2009 and
well as amendments to the Public Procurement and Concessions Act          the implementing regulations were approved in
(PPCA). Prepare implementing regulations, manuals and instructions to     November 2009. In accordance with the PFM act
implement the PPCA.                                                       and regulations: (i) the budget for FY 2011 was
                                                                          prepared; (ii) IPSAS accounting standards and a
                                                                          new chart of accounts were adopted; (iii) the
                                                                          accounting function at Ministry of Finance was
                                                                          unified; and (iv) Debt Management Committee
                                                                          was appointed in April 2010. The amendments to
                                                                          the Public Procurement and Concessions Act
                                                                          (PPCA) were submitted to the Parliament in
                                                                          April 2009 and passed in August 2009. The
                                                                          implementing regulations, a manual and
                                                                          instructions were prepared in March 2009 and
                                                                          passed in November 2009 by the Cabinet.
3. Approve by Cabinet a comprehensive Civil Service Reform strategy     Implemented: A Civil Service Reform Strategy
and publish it.                                                         "Smaller Government Better Service" covering the
                                                                        period 2008-2011 was completed and approved by
                                                                        the Cabinet in June 2008. The Strategy has also
                                                                        been published.
4. Audit Government accounts for key ministries for FY05-06 and         Implemented: The General Auditing Commission
FY06-07.                                                                has completed transactional audits of the
                                                                        Government accounts for FY05/06 and FY06/07,
                                                                        as well as the audits for individual ministries
                                                                        (Finance, Education, Health, Public Works, Lands,
                                                                        Mines and Energy) for FY05-06 and FY06-07.
II. Facilitating Pro-poor growth
5. Submit to the Parliament a bill reforming the Liberia Revenue Code   Implemented: A New National Investment Code
(LRC) and the National Investment Code, including the elimination of    (which reflects a revision to Section 204e of the
ad hoc incentives to individual investors.                              old code) was submitted to the Parliament, in
                                                                        conjunction with the amended Revenue Code in
                                                                        April 2009. The new Revenue code, reducing the
                                                                        scope of ad hoc incentives was passed in
                                                                        September 2009; the reforms in the Investment
                                                                        Code including the elimination of the ad hoc
                                                                        incentives, was enacted in April 2010.




17. There were five key indicators linked to the prior actions, one for each action.
These indicators (Table 2) are the basis for assessing the performance of the operation.
The indicators related to PFM performance have been met. The indicators related to civil
service reform have not been met and the indicator related to pro-poor growth has been
met in law. However, there is no data on approved concessions since the passage of the
Investment Code in April 2010 to provide the basis for verifying the automaticity of the
incentives given to the investors.


                                                      5
Table 2: Liberia RRSPII Key Indicators of Outcome

1. Average difference between out-turn and legislated budget for each Ministry, as measured by PEFA indicator PI-2

Baseline: 19% (2007)
Target: 15% (FY09/10)
2. % of value of non-competitive procurement without justification.
Baseline: 80% (2008)
Target: No more than 20% (June 2010)
 3. Percentage of civil servants captured in the Biometrics System, based on the one staff, one file principle.

Baseline: 0 percent (2008)
Target: 100 percent (June 2010)
4. Audit reports for five high risks M&A completed by the GAC and submitted to the Parliament.
Baseline: no external audit reports submitted (2008)
Target: External audit of the central government's accounts submitted to the Parliament within nine months of year
end for FY08/09
5. Automaticity in the approval of investment incentives for investments not requiring the approval of the
Parliament.
Baseline: No automaticity in investment incentives approval (2008)
Target: 100% automaticity in investment incentives (Measured as a share of the total number of incentives) (June
2010)



2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

External Factors


18. The global economic crisis has had a negative impact on the Liberian economy
and created challenges in managing the budget. The international economic slowdown
has resulted in both lower commodity prices and export volumes. In addition, foreign
investment was lower and/or delayed in key growth sectors (mining, rubber, oil palm and
forestry). Substantial job losses occurred in the export and construction sectors. The
government responded to the global crisis on a number of fronts. First, it waived the
import duty on rice, the country's food staple at an overall cost of US$8.7 million or
about 0.9 percent of the FY09/10 GDP. It is also implemented, with support from IDA, a
Cash-for-Work Temporary Employment Project to provide income to vulnerable
households. Second, the government has been able to obtain more grants to help fill the
gap from lower tax revenues. Third, the government has tried to broaden the tax base,
through tax policy reforms and modernization of domestic tax and customs
administration to improve tax compliance and increase tax revenues. As a result of the
crisis, tax revenues for FY2009/10 were nearly US$18 million lower than projected. This
in the face of demand to increase expenditure for programs to protect the vulnerable
created challenges for the government to meet the expenditure variance target of 15
percent.




                                                          6
Factors under Government Control

19. Two major factors were critical to the positive implementation of the program:
strong government ownership and strong donor support and coordination. These are
discussed in turn below.

Strong Government Ownership

20. The government demonstrated strong ownership of the reform program
supported by the RRSPII. The specific reforms supported by this operation were
critical elements in the Government's strategy as set out in its PRS and have been
promoted and advanced by both the President and the Minister of Finance. The strength
of Liberia's ownership of the reform program reflects substantial support from civil
society. The EGSC, which is the steering committee for the GEMAP, includes
representatives from civil society. The GEMAP technical team also has civil society
representation. Moreover, the Liberia Reconstruction and Development Committee
(LRDC) includes representatives from civil society. Finally, PRS was developed through
a broad participatory process that involved administrative and technical personnel,
elected officials, women and youth leaders, NGOs, the private sector, and the donor
community. In sharp contrast to the marginalization that previously existed in Liberia--
which contributed heavily to the outbreak of conflict--discussions were conducted on
reducing poverty in all of Liberia's 15 counties by county and development
superintendents, tribal chiefs, and clan chiefs. The precedents for broad participation that
were established in formulating I-PRS and PRS have now become an expected part of the
process for future Government policy statements.

Effective Donor Coordination

21. The RRSP II was implemented in the context of very close coordination among
the donors active in Liberia. Two of the prior actions for the operation, related to: (i)the
legislative framework for public financial management law and (ii) audits were very
closely coordinated with structural benchmarks for the IMF's program because they were
considered to be critical measures for both the Bank's and the IMF's program in Liberia.
The European Union's budget support operation included inter alia, both general and
specific tranche release conditions that called for progress in the PFM area. The AfDB
budget support operation which was approved in 2008 also had conditionalities related to
progress on the PFM system. While there was some consistency of conditionalities across
donors providing budget support there could have been better harmonization of these
conditionalities to reduce the transactions cost for the Government.

22. The Bank's support through RRSPII was a response to Government efforts to
align donor support in order to lower transaction costs and to harmonize the policy
dialogue with donors around PRS priorities. The World Bank took the lead in
supporting the Government in the development of the Common Assessment Framework
(CAF) as a strategic tool for jointly assessing results under the Government's reform
program. With the phase-out of GEMAP at HIPC completion point in June 2010, the
Government is committed to using the CAF as the primary mechanism for harmonizing


                                           7
donor support to Liberia (including budget support). The main donors, including the three
donors providing budget support are fully engaged in the CAF process which is managed
by the Budget Support Working Group led by the Ministry of Finance. Donor aid
coordination and policy dialogue is now managed through the Liberia Reconstruction and
Development Committee (LRDC), chaired by the President, which serves as a
coordinating mechanism for development assistance as well as the oversight body for the
PRS.5 Through the LRDC, the government articulates its national priorities and works
directly with donors to ensure that resources are directed to priority interventions.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:


23. M&E design, implementation, and utilization are rudimentary in Liberia.
Poor quality data is the result of both the destruction of statistical capability, as well as
the obsolescence of base line data and surveys which are more than a quarter of a century
old, in an environment where much productive capacity has been destroyed.6 These data
limitations have been exacerbated by weak financial and human resources for M&E.
Consequently, the government has had to completely rebuild its statistical capacity and
assemble reliable baseline data on poverty, demographics, and key economic sectors.
The Liberia Institute of Statistics and Geo-Information Services (LISGIS) has, despite
severe capacity constraints, made significant progress, including implementing a number
of national surveys;7 conducting Liberia's first population census in over 20 years; and
developing a National Strategy for the Development of Statistics to provide a framework
for the revitalization of statistical capacity in Liberia.

24. Despite the lack of a strong formal M&E system, the government was pro-
active in monitoring the areas critical to prior actions. For example, regular meetings
of the Cash Management Committee and budget support working group as well as at the
higher level of the EGSC tracked and monitored progress towards outcome. The
adequacy of budget execution and monitoring was also addressed by other activities
financed under other Bank instruments (e.g., LICUS and TFLIB grants and the EGIRP),
as well as by the IMF and other donors, and supported by RRSPII.


2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):


25. The RRSPII prepared the ground for possible future support to Liberia
through a follow-on development policy operation. In anticipation of this support, the


5
  The LRDC is organized in accordance with the four Pillars in the Government's PRS, thus ensuring that
donor support is aligned with the Government's reform agenda.
6
  The last population census was conducted over 20 years ago, economic statistics were limited to
Monrovia for many years, and routine data collection at service delivery agencies collapsed.
7
  These include a Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) Survey; a Demographic and Health
Survey (DHS); a Comprehensive Food Security and Nutrition Survey (CFNS); and a Participatory Poverty
Assessment (PPA). A National Population and Housing Census was also planned in 2008.


                                                 8
RRSP's policy matrices proposed "subsequent phases" of reform measures that could
sequentially follow on from the key measures and DPO prior actions.

26. As the Government's has maintained its commitment to and continued its
progress on its reform agenda, a follow-on operation ­ the Third Re-engagement
and Reform Support Program (RRSPIII) was submitted to the Board in September
2010. The objectives of this proposed grant are to support government-owned, ongoing
reforms to strengthen public sector functions and governance and to improve the
environment for pro-poor, private-sector-led growth that is more broadly shared. More
specifically, the RRSPIII focuses on: (i) further improving budget planning and
execution; (ii) enhancing revenue administration; and (iii) improving land administration
to reduce conflicts and enhance the investment climate.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

27. The objectives, design, and implementation of RRSPII were highly relevant to
Liberia's development priorities as expressed the PRS. The RRSPII's design and
support were appropriate to country circumstances and were necessitated by Liberia's
exceptional status as a post-conflict country with a history of economic mismanagement
and poor governance. The operation was also consistent with the Bank's assistance
strategy, was complementary with other Bank activities in Liberia, reflected the Bank's
global priorities, and was closely coordinated with IMF and AfDB overall operations and
support to the Government of Liberia. Finally, the RRSPII anticipated the potential risks
well and identified reasonably appropriate mitigating measures.

Consistency with Government Priorities

28.     The RRSPII was consistent with the priorities articulated in Liberia's PRS.
The reform and rebuilding of core state functions and institutions; the improvement in
public sector management, transparency and governance; and the facilitation of pro-poor
growth. The specific reforms supported by the operation (Table 1) were major elements
in that strategy; they were listed in the Government's policy matrix for the operation and
strongly promoted by the Government, including getting the proposed laws passed in a
divided Parliament subsequent to the approval of RRSPII.

Program Design

29.    Owing to Liberia's fragile security and economic circumstances, program design
appropriately proceeded under the Bank's Operational Policy 8.60 on Development
Policy Operations, especially as it related to such countries.8 Under RRSPI, Liberia had

8
 OP 8.60 notes that "countries affected by crisis or conflict may require an unusually quick response from the Bank.
There may not be sufficient time or country capacity to adequately address design considerations (such as possible
distributional effects, effects on natural resources and the environment, fiduciary arrangements), or a strong policy
program developed with stakeholder consultation."



                                                       9
already received exceptional arrears clearance support from the allocation of IDA
resources to finance the full amount of Liberia's IBRD/IDA arrears, reflecting Liberia's
low level of income, very high level of indebtedness, and limited capacity to mobilize
domestic resources.9 The policies supported were important elements supporting both the
JCAF and the Government's program.

Relationship with Bank Strategy

30.    The RRSPII was designed to support the objectives of the Joint Country
Assistance Strategy with the African Development Bank (JCAS) as well as the
Liberia's PRS. The overarching strategy of the government and the JCAS was to support
Liberia's transition from post-conflict relief to long-term development, while laying the
foundations for sustained, shared economic growth. That strategy was underpinned by a
three-pronged approach focusing on rebuilding of state capacity, ensuring visible impact
and transparency, and strengthening donor coordination. This overall strategy reflected
the Bank's Lessons-Learned from other post-conflict countries and the steps that would
be needed to prevent back-sliding into conflict. Principally, these included a focus on
governance reforms and the need to ensure high levels of donor support for critical
reform measures focused on Public Financial Management and other governance areas,
within what was typically a narrow window of opportunity.

31. The RRSPII directly supported this strategy through its support for preparation of
timelier budgets, improvement of the legislative framework for managing public
expenditures, development of a strategy for Civil Service Reform, auditing of key
ministries, and reform of the revenue and investment codes, including the elimination of
ad hoc incentives to individual investors.

Complementarities with Other World Bank Activities

32.    The RRSPII was implemented in close coordination with other Bank
interventions. These include: (i) analytical work under the Public Expenditure
Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR), 10 which has been the
basis for reform of public financial management reforms; and (ii) technical assistance
through various sources. These included: (a) a US$6 million Technical Assistance Grant
to the government, for implementation of the GEMAP 11 and other needed reforms

9
  This exceptional approach was consistent with that of the AfDB and the IMF. Under the AfDB's Post Conflict
Country Facility (PCFF) framework, arrears clearance would typically be shared equally between the borrower, the
PCCF, and donors. Given Liberia's limited payment capacity, however, one third of the cost was financed by bilateral
donors and two-thirds from PCCF resources; in recognition of Liberia's weak financial resources, bilateral donor
assistance also financed the 1 percent contribution that typically would have been required from Liberia. Likewise, the
IMF Executive Board amended the IMF's PRGF-HIPC Trust Instrument to allow certain SMPs in clearly defined
circumstances to count towards the track record under the HIPC initiative, and subsequently agreed that Liberia's
performance under its SMP satisfied this provision.
10
   The PEMFAR also included a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), a Country Procurement
Assessment Review (CPAR), an assessment of the systems and arrangements for budget planning, and an analysis of
public expenditure allocations.

11
     RRSPII directly supports the principles of GEMAP.



                                                         10
identified by PEMFAR and to reach the HIPC Completion Point; (b) a technical
assistance grant for US$11 million through the Economic Governance and Institutional
Reform Project (EGIRP), to provide medium-term support for improvement of the
efficiency and transparency of managing financial and human resources that focuses on
revenue administration, public procurement, budget execution and payroll management,
as well as to improve financial management and governance in the mining sector; (c) the
Liberia Land Sector Reform Project (US$3 million equivalent), (d) budget training for
members of the new legislature from the World Bank Institute; and (e) statistical capacity
building assistance from the Statistical Capacity Building Trust Fund administered by the
Bank. An IFMIS project is assisting the government in financial management through the
provision and installation of computerized financial management information systems in
the Finance Ministry and strengthening manual programs in the line ministries and
counties.

Alignment with Good Practice Principles on Conditionality

33.    The RRSPII was explicitly aligned with the Bank's five Good Practice
Principles on Conditionality. In accordance with these principles, the RRSPII
reinforced ownership by being embedded in the GEMAP framework and through its
alignment with the PRS; by using the Government's Economic Governance Steering
Committee (EGSC) as a coordinated accountability framework; and by supporting a
focused set of prior actions that were chosen in conjunction with the Government and
other partners, in light of their priorities.

Risks and Risk Mitigation

34. The RRSPII satisfactorily recognized the principal risks to the reform
program and identified factors that would mitigate these risks. Broadly speaking, the
risk mitigation factors included the Government's commitment to macroeconomic
stability and its close communications with opposition parties in parliament and its close
interaction with civil society. In addition, the actions supported by RRSPII, notably the
PFM law, the start on Civil Service reform, and the new Liberia Revenue and Investment
Codes, will themselves reduce the risks to the sustainability of the reforms, by helping to
make public financial management stronger and more transparent and reducing the risks
of corruption. During the implementation of the operation, the risks to the program listed
in Table 3 either did not arise or were successfully mitigated. While external shocks were
indicated as a possible risk, the fiscal impact of the global economic crisis was larger than
anticipated. However, macroeconomic stability was maintained.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives


35. RRSPII supported five important institutional and policy actions that
contributed directly to the CAS objectives of rebuilding core state functions and
institutions and economic revitalization. The prior actions were critical to deepening
Governance reforms and aimed at: (i) improving the efficiency of budget preparation and
execution and increasing the professionalism and improving the human resource


                                           11
management of the civil service and (ii) improving the investment climate through the
reform of the revenue and private investment regimes.



Objective 1: Improving the efficiency of budget preparation and execution and
increasing the professionalism and improving the human resource management of
the civil service.

36. In the area of improving the efficiency of budget preparation and execution,
RRSPII supported the extension and use of the interim system for accounting and
reporting in the Ministry of Finance by providing access to the system to the
Comptroller General Office to facilitate the preparation of timely budget reports.
The lack of an adequate system for accounting, control and reporting on the budget and
on expenditure in particular has led to larger variances between budget out-turn and
legislated budget. The extension of the interim accounting system to the Comptroller
General's office facilitated in part through technical assistance from the EGIRP project
was expected to facilitate more accurate monthly budget reporting, including variances.
An important outcome of this support was therefore more effective planning and
execution of the budget as reflected in a reduction in variance between the legislated
budget and the actual budget. The 2007 PEFA reported a total expenditure variance of 19
percent. The RRSPII targeted a reduction in the total expenditure variance to 15 percent
for the (FY09/10) budget.

37. The reforms have resulted in an improvement in the preparation and
execution of the budget. Although the global crisis in 2008/09 has made budgetary
management difficult given the reduction in revenues, the quarterly fiscal reports from
the Comptroller General's office and consequently better expenditure planning has
helped to keep expenditures in line with revenues. For the 2008/09 budget, expenditures
in the base budget were US$298.1 million while the expenditure for the contingent
budget12 was US$270.2 million. The actual expenditure out-turn was US$250.5 million.
This reflected a difference of US$47.6 million or 15.9 percent compared with the base
budget but a variance of 7.3 percent when compared with the contingent budget. The
variance largely reflects the Government's slowdown of domestic expenditure in
response to the slowdown in revenues as well as the inability of spending ministries to
utilize allotments largely due to weak procurement capacity. For the 2009/10 budget, the
risk adjusted or base budget approved was US$287.6 million and the actual expenditure
out-turn was US$282.2 million, reflecting a variance of less than 2 percent.

38. Significant progress was made on PFM legislation. The RRSPII also supported
policy actions to improve the legislative framework for public financial management by
supporting the submission to the Parliament of a Public Finance Act, as well as


12
  The Government prudently prepared a base and a contingent budget to reflect the
uncertainties surrounding some of the revenues from the concessions.



                                        12
amendments to the Public Procurement and Concessions Act (PPCA); and the
preparation of implementing regulations, and manuals to implement the Acts. A
comprehensive PFM law with attendant regulations addressing weaknesses in budget
preparation and execution including cash planning as well as debt management was
expected to strengthen fiscal management. The public Procurement and Concessions Act
passed in 2005 was a significant step towards addressing the issues of non-competitive
procurements. The Act required amendments to revise thresholds and to change rules
governing licensing procedures and clarify roles and responsibilities of the Public
Procurement and Concession Commission. The amended PPCA and related regulations,
manuals and instructions were therefore expected to lead to a reduction in the share of
non-competitive procurement from its 2008 baseline value of 80 percent to no more than
20 percent by June 2010.

39.     In August 2009, the Legislature approved a new Public Finance Management
(PFM) law.13 The draft law was submitted to the Legislature in September 2008. The law
was passed in a special session of the Legislature some six to nine months later than
expected. As a result of delays in approving the law, there were corresponding delays in
drafting the regulations (which were prepared with IMF technical assistance). The law
covers the full public financial management cycle, including budget preparation, approval
and execution, borrowing, public debt and guarantees, cash management, accounting and
reporting, internal control and audit, and autonomous agencies and special funds.
Following this, in November 2009, the President approved the enabling regulations for
the law. Since that time, the authorities have made impressive advances in implementing
the new law: (i) the FY2010/11 budget was prepared according to law, (ii) a unified
accounting function was put in place in the Ministry of Finance, (iii) a high level debt
management committee was established, which issued a revised debt management
strategy for the post-HIPC completion point period, and (iv) a chart of accounts and
international accounting standards were adopted.

40.     The amendments to the Public Procurement and Concessions Act were
submitted to Parliament in April 2009 but passage was delayed. The implementing
regulations, manual and instructions were prepared in March 2009. However, the
amended Act was only passed on September 16, 2010. The delay in the passage of the
amended Act was in part due to the debate on whether to have a separate institution with
oversight for concessions. However, operating on the basis of the spirit of the amended
Act, the Government was still able to make substantial progress in reducing the level of
non-competitive procurement--a common source of corruption. Based on contracts data
regularly published by the Procurement and Concession Commission, the percentage of
value of non-competitive procurement has been substantially reduced from around 80
percent in 2008 to 7.5 percent for contracts issues for the 2008/09 fiscal year. Data
available only for the first three quarters of the 2009/10 fiscal year ending in June 2010
showed that 9.2 percent of the total value of contracts for the period was non-competitive,
well below the target of 20 percent.


13
     The PFM law was signed into law by the President on September 2, 2009.



                                          13
41. The Government has made remarkable progress on budget execution oversight
through the conduct of audits for the first time in more than twenty years. The prior
action under RRSPIII supported the audit of Government accounts for key spending
ministries (Health, Education, Public Works, Finance and Lands Mines and Energy). This
was considered to be an important step towards reviving the audit functions and
supporting the Parliament's key oversight role. A key indicator of the outcome under this
prior action was that the external audits of the central government's accounts were
submitted to the Legislature within nine months of year end for FY08/09.

42. The Government has made considerable progress in developing and
implementing a pragmatic audit strategy. The General Auditing Commission (GAC)
was strengthened through the engagement of experienced auditors from neighboring
countries. In addition, the logistical capability of the GAC was enhanced through
technical assistance under the EGIRP project. Up to June 2010, the GAC has completed
more than 25 audits including the audits for 2005/06, 2006/07 and 2007/08 for the five
key spending ministries. The audits for the five key spending ministries were submitted
to the Legislature and the President and also published in April 2009.

43. In the area of improving human resource management of the civil service,
RRSPII supported the approval by the Cabinet of a Civil Service Reform Strategy
and its publication. This strategy is expected to provide the framework for rebuilding a
smaller more effective civil service. A critical first step to strengthening human resource
management in the civil service was the implementation of a biometric identification
system which is based on the one-staff, one-file principle. This was necessary for the
establishment of an effective Human Resource Management Information System
(HRMIS). The indicator was to capture 100 percent of civil servants into the biometric
system by June 2010.

44. The implementation of the Civil Service Reform Strategy which was approved
by the Cabinet in June 2008 had a slow start. However, learning from the first phase of
implementation, the Government decided that more focus was needed and accordingly
identified five medium-term priority areas as follows: (i) pay reform; (ii) establishing a
HRMIS; (iii) pensions reform; (iv) creating a merit based system; and (v) decentralizing
CSA services. The Medium Term Pay Reform Strategy as well as a new rationalized
grading structure for civil servants was completed and adopted by the Cabinet in 2010.
This will allow the government to move into the new grading structure, reduce
discretionary allowances and target their salary increases in FY10/11. The government
completed the pilot phase of the HRMIS and was expecting to have a complete clean
employee registry by March 2010. However this did not happen because of delays in
completing the biometric work. As of September 2010, only about 70 percent of the civil
servants have been captured in the biometric system. While the target of having all civil
servants in the system by June 2010 was not unrealistic, it was not met due largely to the
underestimation of the funding requirement for the work including covering the rural
counties. Furthermore, although some funding was available under World Bank
technical assistance (EGIRP), the reallocation of the funds did not take place quickly and
the implementation lost momentum. It is now estimated that the total biometric capture


                                          14
will be completed by end-December 2010. Not much progress has been made in the other
three priority areas.

Objective 2: Improving the investment climate through the reform of the revenue
and private investment regimes.

45. In this area, the prior actions for RRSPII supported policy actions to improve
the environment for private investment. The specific policy actions involved the
submission to the Parliament of bills to reform the Liberia Revenue Code and the
National Investment Code 14 . This was a necessary step in the rationalization of the
incentive framework for investment in Liberia. One specific measure of this
rationalization was the repeal of section 204(e) of the Revenue Code which allowed the
Government to enter into ad hoc tax concessions with individual investors on a case by
case basis. A key indicator of the outcome under this prior action was therefore the 100
percent automatic approval of incentives for investors based on the reformed Revenue
code.

46. In April 2010, the Investment Act and the Investment Commission Act were
approved by the Government and signed by the President. The new Investment Act
repealed and replaced the previous Investment Incentives Act of 1973. It simplifies and
streamlines non-fiscal incentives for new investments mainly by eliminating any
discriminatory and discretionary measures. Fiscal incentives are removed from the
Investment Act and now provided for, on a non-discretionary basis, in the Liberia
Revenue Code as amended in August 2009. The National Investment Commission Act of
1979 was also amended and replaced. The new Investment Commission, which
comprises a number of Ministers (Finance, Planning, Justice, Commerce and State for
Economic affairs), will provide advice to the Government on investment policy, identify
projects, evaluate concession awards, and assist investors in complying with laws and
regulations. However, the key indicator described above could not be assessed as there is
no data on approved concessions since the passage of the Investment Code in April 2010
to provide the basis for verifying the automaticity of the incentives given to the investors.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

47. The RRSPII is rated satisfactory. The operation's objectives, design,
implementation, and outcomes were highly relevant to Liberia's own development
priorities and country circumstances as defined by Liberia's in its PRS, and as articulated
in public statements by the government. The operation was also fully consistent with the
Bank's assistance strategy as expressed in the JCAS. It was complementary with other
Bank activities in Liberia, reflected the Bank's global priorities, and was closely
coordinated with the IMF, the AfDB and other donors' activities. The operation's PDOs


14
  Technical assistance for the drafting of the Revenue Code was provided by the IMF
and assistance for the drafting of the investment code was provided by the IFC.



                                           15
were broadly met, since the laws that were submitted to Parliament as prior actions were
also passed through the efforts of the administration, despite the divided nature of
Parliament. These objectives were important in achieving the country's priorities and the
key indicators of the project's success have been essentially completed with the notable
exception of the completion of the of civil servant biometric system. This operation was
appropriately supported by technical assistance provided through complementary Bank
activities in the areas of capacity building and public financial management strengthening
through the EGIRP and other grants.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

48. Although the gains in these areas are difficult to measure, the operation
anticipated some positive poverty impacts through the distributional effects from
improved public financial management and better targeting of social assistance. In
addition, the grant was expected to enhance the country's capacity to better provide basic
services with a beneficial impact on the poor. It was also anticipated that IDA support
through this operation would have an important signaling role and serve as a catalyst for
the other donors to increase budget support to Liberia.
49. Distributional changes in spending were manifest in the budget, where the
allocations for the core poverty ministries, including Public Works, Education,
Health and Agriculture, showed substantial increases. These increased expenditures
are expected to improve infrastructure, expand access to the Basic Package of Health
Services, rehabilitate and construct schools, and improve agriculture --a sector in which
a large proportion of the poor is engaged. The allocation in the 2008/09 budget of
resources for development activities in the counties has also increased 300 percent over
the 2007/08 budget. This implies, potentially, a better distribution of resources to the poor
across the counties.
50. Ability to track donor support is improving as a result of the RRSPII, although
difficulties remain owing to the large share of donor support outside of the budget.
An estimate from the Aid Management Unit in the Ministry of Finance put the
FY2009/10 disbursement on non-Government executed project at US$340.3 million
compared with the budget of US$282 million including US$23 million in donor grants.
The AfDB has provided direct budget support since the work on arrears and the EU is
considering the provision of budget support.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

51. When the RRSPI was prepared, the Liberian Government was characterized
by exceptionally weak capacity, even by low-income developing countries standards.
The prolonged civil conflict resulted in the loss of much institutional capacity and the
near-total breakdown of established practices and procedures, notably for public financial
management. Moreover, most of the civil servants recruited over the previous two
decades, and a large share of the state-owned enterprise (SOE) staff were unqualified,
poorly-educated, patronage appointees. The low level of staff education and training
makes capacity building difficult but it is proceeding.


                                           16
52. The RRSPII supported some improvement in institutions. The accounting
system is being shared across government to help in the preparation of the budget and
with the Controller General to monitor outcomes. The framework for public financial
management has been substantially improved with the PFM Act and the amendments to
the Procurement and Concessions Act. The work on the biometric identification system is
systematically removing ghost workers from the Government's payroll. The General
Auditing Commission has been strengthened. Finally, the new Revenue code will
strengthen and make more transparent the granting of concessions, by eliminating the
granting of ad hoc concessions, and improving tax and customs administration.

53. The RRSPII was accompanied by substantial, intensive technical assistance for
capacity improvement that was provided by the World Bank and other donors in
the areas covered by the operation. World Bank-supported training has strengthened
legislators' budget oversight capability and improved Liberia's statistical capacity. An
EITI Secretariat was established as part of Liberia's compliance with the extractive
industry initiative under RRSPI with extensive support from the World Bank and other
donors; this will help in the set up of new concessions under the framework of RRSPII
that eliminates ad hoc incentives in concessions. Although the Cash Management
Committee (CMC) existed prior to this operation, it has become more active and obtained
the authority and capability to monitor and account for transactions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

54. The risks facing the project were satisfactorily assessed, as were the factors
that would help to mitigate them. The reforms achieved under the operation have
benefitted from the strong ownership and the commitment of the Government. Some of
the reforms themselves serve to mitigate some of the risks that might undermine the
development outcomes.

55. Security risks: The internal security situation in Liberia remains fragile
because a significant number of ex-combatants are still unemployed. Although pro-
poor growth will help, there are few strong domestic institutions that can mediate
conflicts and enable their resolution without recourse to violence. In addition, externally,
the political situation in Liberia's neighbors, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea, and Guinea-Bissau
remains fragile. Mitigating the risk to reforms from deterioration in security posed by
these threats will require Liberia to develop effective security institutions based in law
and subject to civilian authority, and continued efforts to promote both domestic and sub-
regional peace and security.



                                          17
56. Political risk: Reforms of public financial management, public administration
and the investment framework required legislative reforms. At the time of RRSPII,
the Government of president Sirleaf lacked a majority in Parliament, and therefore may
have faced difficulties in enacting its legislative agenda, particularly as the election of
2011 approached. However, close interaction with the opposition parties in parliament,
supported by technical assistance in explaining the government's position, enabled the
president and her party to pass a number of bills, including those submitted to parliament
as prior actions for RRSPII. In addition, this risk has been partially mitigated through
training of legislators and legislative staff, funded by the Bank (including through the
EGIRP) and other partners. Another factor mitigating this risk is the government's close
interaction with civil society and key stakeholders. Civil society has come to expect this
interaction and it is likely to continue after the 2011 elections.

57. Macroeconomic Risk: The country remains highly vulnerable to domestic and
external shocks. Mitigation of this risk will eventually come from more rapid growth,
and improved revenue performance as timber and iron ore exports and foreign investment
improve. The government's demonstrated commitment to fiscal prudence and economic
stability is another mitigation factor, along with the PFM and the improvement in the
revenues, procurement, and concessions under legal changes supported by RRSPII. In
addition, the World Bank, IMF and other donors closely monitor Liberia's progress.
Substantial progress has been made on reducing debt and the HIPC completion point was
reached at end-June 2010, resulting in a reduction of debt to 15 percent of GDP.

 Fiduciary Risk: Liberia faces risks from failure to suppress corruption or make
effective use of its limited fiscal space. To some extent, the actions under RRSPII
themselves mitigate these risks. Examples are the new PFM law, the improvements in the
Public Procurement Act, the beginnings of civil service reform, and the Revenue and
Investment laws and the improvements in tax payer biometric identification. Measures of
good governance are improving but remain low. Liberia's ranking on Transparency
International's 2009 Corruption Perception Index, which has improved. In 2010 Liberia
ranked 87th out of 178 countries with a score of 3.3 out of 10 compared with a ranking of
97th out of 180 countries with a score of 3.1 out of 10 in 2009 and a ranking of 150th out
of 179 countries with a score of 2.1 out of 10 in 2007. Nevertheless, and the fiduciary risk
assessed in RRSPII remains substantial.

58. Implementation risk: Implementation capacity is limited in Liberia and will
improve only slowly. There is a lack of well- qualified middle and senior staff and civil
service remuneration is low. Attempts are being made to reduce this problem through the
Civil Service Reform supported under RRSPII. Other approaches to reduce the problem
are the use of external experts; support for higher salaries through a Senior Executive
Services program financed by a Bank emergency project; and capacity building efforts,
including an active training program by the Bank (including through the EGIRP) and
other partners. Although the laws arising from RRSPII and other efforts to improve
governance and fiduciary responsibility represent substantial progress, they sometimes
lack sufficient backing for actions on violations. Examples include the lack of resources
and qualified staff to implement the Public Procurement Act. Another issue is
improvement in the follow-up to audits.


                                          18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

   Rating: Satisfactory

59. Quality at entry was ensured through a high level of consistency between the
operation and the JCAS, and by close management attention to the importance of
and potential for implementation of the prior actions. The prior actions were set in
close coordination with the specific programs that the government considered important,
ensuring government ownership. The approach followed explicitly the Bank's good
practice principles on conditionality into program design and implementation. Finally,
the prior actions were limited in number but appropriately focused, ensuring that they
targeted key reform needs in the country, as defined by the country and the Bank together.

60. The design of RRSPII at entry was closely coordinated with ongoing programs
of World Bank technical assistance and with the IMF and other donors in numerous
aspects. These aspects included programs for enhancing governance such as EGRIP,
GEMAP, and a LICUS trust fund grant, as noted, as well as specific efforts to build
capacity in the Parliament and strengthen statistical capacity. Collaboration with the IMF
was close, with a division of labor based on respective areas of strength.

(b) Quality of Supervision

   Rating: Satisfactory

61. Supervision was carried out through close consultations with the government
and with other development partners through the GEMAP, EGSC and the LRDC.
This approach both reduced transaction costs for the government and ensured program
adherence to the government's development priorities. In particular, the supervision took
place in close collaboration with the IMF across a number of areas. Close consultation
with other development partners began in the preparation of the Joint Country Assistance
Strategy in 2008, and continued through regular meetings with the donors and
government to confer on strategy and implementation issues.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

62. The RRSPII was a well-designed and implemented operation, as described above.
Bank performance for both quality at entry and supervision were rated satisfactory.
Correspondingly, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory



                                          19
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
   Rating: Not applicable as described above. The Government and the implementing
agency were the same.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

63. ICR Guidelines (Appendix A) identify nine criteria for rating Government
performance. Overall Government performance is rated satisfactory in accordance with
seven of these criteria:

       Government ownership and commitment to achieving the development objectives
       was strong.
       The enabling environment included supportive macro, sectoral, and institutional
       policies that were appropriate to country circumstances.
       Stakeholders and civil society were consulted extensively in the formulation of
       the PRS and the RRSPII supported key reforms of the PRS.
       Fiduciary requirements were met satisfactorily.
       Implementation issues were resolved on a timely basis.
       The relationships and coordination with the Bank and other donors through the
       EGSC and the LRDC were excellent throughout.
       The PRS provide a comprehensive framework for continued growth and poverty
       reduction and transition to the next series of operations.

64. Some lack of progress has been described above in terms of: (i) the adequacy of
the Government's implementation capacity, and (ii) M&E arrangements, including the
utilization of M&E data in decision-making and resource allocation. This however was
due to the low base of Liberia's human resource and to the substantial technical capacity
constraints. The assessment finds it commendable that the Government was able to
deliver the agreed program despite the significant post conflict challenges facing the
country.


6. Lessons Learned

65. The success of the RRSPII operation shows that gains can be made with
Government ownership and commitment. These gains are achievable even in countries
facing risks from low capacity and post-conflict issues, such as Liberia, and within the
context of even a small project. RRSPII was able to support a few, specific, important,
prior reforms that that had been indicated through substantial consultation with civil
society, that the government owned completely, and to which it was committed. The
government's ownership and commitment was shown by its ability to obtain



                                          20
parliamentary approval of the required legislation, despite the lack of a government
parliamentary majority.
66. In countries with limited capacity for implementation, it is particularly
important to select a few focused actions that are deemed essential to supporting the
government's broader reform program. Such selectivity will not only reduce the
transactions costs on a government that is already burdened by multiple management
demands, but it will also increase the likelihood that such focused actions are both likely
to be enacted and to move the reform program forward. RRSPII is an example; the
anticipated results of the operation and its prior actions were defined realistically and
taking into account the government's implementation capacity, including specific
processes such as audits.
67. In countries where capacity is weak it is necessary to ensure that Development
Policy Operations are accompanied by a critical mass of technical assistance. This is
necessary to ensure that the commitment and willingness to reform is supported by the
capacity to reform. This was the case in RRSPII, where there was substantial support
from technical assistance provided by other World Bank operations and by other donors.
This technical assistance will be necessary to support the further implementation of the
elements supported by the RRSPII, for example to develop further the audit capacity and
follow-up to use the results, and to develop the capacity for enforcing competitive
procurement. As in the case of RRSPII, the effectiveness of policy and institutional
reform operations is enhanced by its complementarities with other Bank financed
technical assistance operations and the efforts of other active donors in the reform areas,
such as the AfDP, the EU, and the IMF.

68. A Common Assessment Framework that is managed by the Government and
supported by the donors can be an effective tool for facilitating deeper
harmonization of donors support. The CAF that was developed and implemented with
World Bank support provided the focal point not only for assessing results and agreeing
strategic interventions but also provided the basis for harmonizing the trigger for budget
support operations between the World Bank, the African Development Bank and the
European Union.

69. Identifying good indicators to evaluate progress can be difficult, especially in
countries with data and capacity. Also given the short time span covered by the
operation, it was difficult to find indicators that could show improvement by the close of
the operation. This is particularly important for stand-alone operation where there is no
succeeding operation to continue the monitoring of the indicator.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

Please see Annex 4
(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                          21
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                 Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Errol Graham                 Sr. Economist                         AFTP4   Team Leader
Winston Percy Onipede Cole   Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM   FM
Emmanuel Doe Fiadzo          Senior Economist                      AFTP4
Anthony Mensa-Bonsu          Consultant                            AFTPC   Procurement
Rajiv Sondhi                 Sr. Finance Officer                   CTRFC   Finance Officer
Jonathan David Pavluk        Sr Counsel                            LEGAF   Legal
Anna Kristiina Karjanlahti   ET Consultant                         AFTP4
Rebecca Simson               E T Consultant                        AFTP2
Glaucia Reis Ferreira        Language Program Assistant            AFTP4
Esther Bryant                Team Assistant                        AFMLR
Supervision
Winston Percy Onipede Cole Sr Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Emmanuel Doe Fiadzo        Senior Economist                   AFTP4
Rebecca Simson             E T Consultant                     AFTP2


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                             USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                             Total:              33.21                    189,333.69
Supervision/ICR
                             Total:                                             0.00




                                            22
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
         Not applicable




                                      23
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
        Not applicable




                                  24
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                             Government of Liberia
                    RRSPII Implementation Completion Report


(i) Assessment of the operation's objective, design, implementation, and operational
experience

The design, implementation and operational experience were positive, as evidenced
by the program's success. The RRSP II prior actions were anchored in our national
reform agenda and the program was designed to support the strengthening of our public
financial management, both in terms of execution and transparency, while facilitating
pro-poor growth. The prior actions were also consistent with our HIPC triggers.

The RRSPII supported reform in five crucial areas: (i) budget preparation; (ii) the
legislative framework for managing public sector expenditure from budgeting to
expenditure and then accounting and reporting; (iii) a strategy for Civil Service reform
and improved effectiveness; (iv) audit of key ministries for FY05-06 and FY 06-07; and
(v) reform of the revenue code and the investment code, including the elimination of ad
hoc incentives to individual investors.

(ii) Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives

The government successfully implemented all five prior actions which included the
passage of a comprehensive Public Financial Management Law in August 2009 and
amendments to the Liberian Revenue Code in September 2009. We launched
SunSystem to automate our accounting and reporting functions across government and a
first budget report was produced in August 2008. We submitted amendments to the
Public Procurement and Concessions Act in April 2009 and these were subsequently
enacted in August 2009. A new National Investment Code was submitted to the
Legislature in conjunction with an amended Revenue Code. We also completed and
Cabinet approved a civil service reform strategy. Our General Auditing Commission
completed a series of audits for five key government ministries including Finance,
Education, Public Works, Land Mines and Energy and Health for FY05-06 and FY06-07.

(iii) Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation and
implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may
be helpful in the future

These ambitious reforms set the framework for stronger economic and financial
management increasing transparency and accountability across government.
However, issues of implementation and execution remain in a low-capacity environment
and we continue to rely heavily on our partner's technical input. The legislative agenda
for the prior actions was heavy and passage of the laws at times proved more difficult



                                        25
than envisaged but this also strengthened intra governmental policy dialogue and
coordination.

(iv) Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co-financiers, or of other
partners during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including the
effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned

The World Bank has been strong in providing invaluable technical and financial
support. The International Monetary Fund has also provided crucial technical, especially
in the area of public financial management. We have appreciated donor coordination
efforts and flexibility in these areas.




                                        26
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                  27
                      Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents



World Bank (chronological order)

Joint Staff Advisory Note on the Republic of Liberia Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper, April 25, 2007.

Operations Committee Memorandum, "Liberia: Proposed Country Re-engagement and
Reform Support Program Revised Documentation," July 18, 2007.

Memorandum and Recommendations of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on Assistance to the Republic of Liberia under the
Enhanced HIPC Debt Initiative, Report no. 42524-LR, February 27, 2008.

Memorandum, Operations Committee (OC) Review, "Liberia: Proposed Country Re-
engagement and Reform Support Operation ­ Revised Documentation for Virtual OC
Review," 7/19/2007.

IDA Program Document, Re-engagement and Reform Support Program, Report No.
40307-LR, November 20, 2007.

 `Emergency Project Paper for an IDA Grant in the Amount of SDR6.7 Million
(US$ 11.0 Million Equivalent) o the Republic of Liberia for an Economic Governance
and Institutional and Institutional Reform Project," Report No. 42836-LR, April 29, 2008.

Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note on the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper; Report No.
44153-LR, June 24, 2008.

Supervision of RRSPII and Identification of RRSPII Aide Memoire, November 2009.

IDA Program Document, Second Re-engagement and Reform Support Program (RRSP
II), Report No. 46508-LR (Draft), December 2009.

International Monetary Fund (chronological order)

"Liberia--Staff Report for the 2008 Article IV Consultation, First Review of the Three-
Year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility Arrangement, Financing Assurances
Review, and Requests for Waiver and Modification of Performance Criteria," November
24, 2008.

"Liberia ­ Letter of Assessment," December 3, 2008

Lodewyk Erasmus; Jules Leichter; Jeta Menkulasi " Dedollarization in Liberia--Lessons
from Cross-country Experience" , IMF Working Paper, WP/09/37.



                                         28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33435R2
                         11°W                                                            10°W                                                           9°W                                                           8°W




9°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIBERIA
                                                                                                                                        GUINEA
       SIERRA                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                           Irié
       LEONE                                              To                             Voinjama
                                                         Buedu
                                                                                         Kolahun

                                       To                                       Mt. Wuteve          L O FA




                                                                                                                            .
                                    Pendembu                                     (1,380 m)




                                                                                                                           ts
                                                                                                                   M
                                                        Vahun
8°N                                                                                                                    i                                                                                                                                   8°N




                                                                                          e
                                                                                                                  iz

                                                                                         ng
                                                                                                              g
                                     To                                          Ra  i                 o   no
                                   Kenema
                                                           Gelahun
                                                                            g   iz                 W                       Zorzor                                                    To
                                                                    o    lo                                                                                                         Lola




                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                   ya           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                    ts
                                                 be                                                                                                                        Yekepa
                                                                                                                                                                           Yekepa                    M




                                                                                                                                        nda
                                             G
                                                           fa
                                                                                                            Via
                                                                                                                                                                                               ba




                                                                                                                                    Nia
                                                        of                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                       im
                                                                                                                                                        Nzérékoré                  N
                                                   L




                         Kongo                            GBARPOLU                                          Gbalatuah                                                         Senniquellie
                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Danané
          To                                                                                                                                                   Ganta        Karnplay
        Zimmi    GRAND                  Bopolu
                Bo
                  CAPE                                                                                       Gbarnga
7°N                                                                        l                                                                  Palala                                                                                                       7°N
                                                                    P   au
                 MOUNT                                          St.                                 Zeansue
                                                                                                     Zienzu            BONG                            Yopie
                                                                                                                                                                       Sagleipie
                                     Tubmanburg                                            Totota
                                                                  Bong Town
 Robertsport                                                                                                                                                    NIMBA                                                         CÔTE
                                 BOMI
                                                                                                                                                                                           n
                            Klay
                                                                  MARGIBI                                                    Botata
                                                                                                                                                                         Gloie
                                                                                                                                                                                    Nu
                                                                                                                                                                                       o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D'IVOIRE
                                   Careysburg                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                        hn               Tappita
                                                                                                                                                          Tapeta                          Toulépleu
                                                                  Kakata                                                              Jo
                                                                                                                                  St.
                                            Bensonville                                                                                                                              Tobli
                     MONROVIA                                       Harbel
                                                                                            GRAND
                                                                                            BASSA                                       Guata                                    Poabli
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kola Town
        MONTSERRADO
                                                                           Hartford                    Gaamodebi                                                                                                   Zwedru
6°N                                                                                                                                                                                                  Babu                                                  6°N
                                                                                                                   RIVER CESS
                                                                  Buchanan
                                                                                                    Trade                                                                     GRAND GEDEH
                                                                                                    Town
                                                                                                                           Gonglee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dube
                                                                                                                                                                                    Pyne
                                                                                                                                  tos
                                                                                                                              Ce s       Bokoa

                                                                                                Cestos City                                                    SINOE                                                   Pelokehn

                                                                                                                                                  Kopo           Juazohn                                     RIVER GEE
      AT L A N T I C OC EAN                                                                                            Sehnkwehn                                                                      Kanweaken
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kahnwia                  Fish Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tawake
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tawlokehn
5°N                                                                                                                                       Greenville                                                                                                       5°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                       GRAND                                A     Nyaake
                                                                                                                                                                 Nana Kru                                 RY
                                                                                                                                                                                        K R U Barclayville
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LA




                                                                                                                                                                              Sasstown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N




                LIBE R I A                                                                                                                                                                          Grand Cess                    Plibo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tabou

                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                   Harper

                COUNTY CAPITALS

                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4°N
                RIVERS

                MAIN ROADS
                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                               0             20          40      60        80       100 Kilometers
                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                RAILROADS                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                COUNTY BOUNDARIES                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                 0                    20              40             60 Miles

                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                         10°W                                                           9°W                                                           8°W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JULY 2007
