Domment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12960
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1247-BD)
APRIL 14, 1994
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
1 US$ - 38.58 Taka
1 Taka - 0.0259 US$
Abbreviations
CPA       The Chittagong Port Authority
FINNIDA:  The Finnish International Development Agency
GOB    : The Government of Bangladesh
IDA    : The International Development Association
MIS    : Management Information System
MOS    : The Ministry of Shipping
MPB    : Multi-Purpose Berth
MPBBF  : Multi-Purpose Berth Back-up Facilities
GOB Financial Year
July 1 to July 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Chittagong Port Project (Credit 1247-BD)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Bangladesh - Chittagong Port Project
(Credit 1247-BD)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part II contains the Borrower's
comments. The Credit (SDR 54 million of April 1982) was to provide the Port of Chittagong with
adequate capacity for handling general cargo and container traffic growth through the early 1990s.
This would be achieved by constructing two multipurpose berths and by improving productivity
through provision of new cargo handling equipment and training of port workers.
The comprehensive PCR describes in detail project preparation, implementation and
results. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1992, five years behind schedule. The delay was due
to the Borrower's slow and inefficient decision-making procedures. The project's total estimated cost
was US$110 million. Final project cost was US$93 miDlion. The difference is primarily due to failure
to procure some container handling equipment. The undisbursed amount of SDR 9 million in the
Credit was canceled in June 1993.
The project did provide Chittagong Port with adequate capacity to handle traffic
growth through the early 1990s. The re-estimated economic rate of return (31%) is higher than the
appraisal estimate of 23%. The port's financial performance has also been satisfactory. Overall, the
project is rated as satisfactory and its sustainability as likely. On the other hand, the project's
institutional impact was negligible.
Bank-Borrower collaboration, especialy for institutional strengthening, was not always
effective. At appraisal, the Bank concluded that the Chittagong Port Authority (CPA) was
overstaffed, that its planning needed strengthening, and that CPA staff needed training at aDl levels.
The project provided for technical assistance to improve institutional performance but the expected
benefits did not materialize. All along, there was a general feeling within CPA that a reorganization
was not needed, that CPA was not overstaffed, and that training was not a high priority. As a result,
no staff reductions were effected, planning was not strengthened, and the training program was not
implemented.
The project may be audited.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed vithout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
Chittagong Port Project - Credit 1247-BD
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                                                    .............................................            i
Evaluation  Summary                                        .............................................         ii-iv
Part l:  Project Review  from   Bank    . ............................................                             1
Perspective
Project Identity                               .............................................            1
Project Background                     .        ............................................            1
Project Objective  and                  .       ............................................           1
Description
Project Design and                    .         ............................................           2
Organization
Project Implementation                   .      ............................................           3
Procurement                                    .............................................            4
Institutional Performance                 .     ............................................           5
Project Results                                .............................................            6
Financial Performance                   .       ............................................           7
Project Sustainability                 .        ............................................           8
Association's  Performance   . ............................................                            10
Borrower Performance                           ............................................. .          11
Project Relationship                           ............................................. .          11
Consultant Services                            ............................................. .          11
Project Documentation  and   .............................................                             11
Data
Part Il: Project Review from
Borrower's Perspective .............................-15
Part Ill: Statistical Information                                                                                17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
List of Tables
Table 1      -     Related Bank Loans and Credits .                 17
Table 2     -      Project Timetable ............         .    ... 18
Table 3      -     Schedule of Disbursements  ....... ....  19
Table 4      -     Traffic through the Chittagong Port ...........  20
Table 5     -      Productivity Indicators ..................,.. 21
Table 6      -     Procurement Process ................... 22
Table 7    -   Project Cost .--                ............... 23
Table 8     -      Sources of Funds .............,.,.,,        .,.24
Table 9      -     Investment Program FY82-87 ................ 25
Table 10    -      Credit Allocations    ..........................  26
Table 11    -      Economic Return Analysis .................... 27
Table 12    -      CPA Income and Expenditure  ....... ........  28
Table 13    -      Sources and Application of Funds ............  29
Table 14    -      Balance Sheet .............                      30
Table 15    -      Status of Covenants  .3.......          ....   31
Table 16    -      Staff Input and Mission Data ....... ....  34



i
BANGLADESH
Chittagong Port Project (Credit 1247-BD)
Project Completion Report
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report for the Chittagong Port Project in Bangladesh,
for which Credit 1247-BD in the amount of SDR 54 million was approved on April 26, 1982.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1992, five years behind schedule. A total of SDR 33
million was disbursed, and the final project cost was US$ 93 million, compared with the
appraisal estimate of US$ 110 million. The cost reduction was mainly due to failure to
procure sufficient container equipment.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Environmentally Sustainable Development
Division, Africa Technical Department, Africa Regional Office, and the Energy and
Infrastructure Division, South Asia Regional Office, (Preface, Executive Summary, Parts I
and Ell) and Part II by the Borrower.
Preparation of the PCR was started during the final supervision mission of the project
in September 1992, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Association and the
Borrower; and internal Bank Group memoranda.






ii
Project Completion Report
BANGLADESH
Chittaaona Port Project (Credit 1247-BD)
Evaluation Summary
(i)   Obiective: The project sought to provide the Port of Chittagong with
adequate capacity for handling the expected growth in general cargo and
container traffic through the early 1990s. This was to be achieved, firstly,
by constructing two multipurpose berths suitable for servicing general cargo
as well as container vessels and, secondly, by improving the throughput of
the existing berths through the provision of new cargo handling equipment
and training of port workers.
(ii)  Project Oraanization: Decision-making within GOB was slow and inefficient
due to a multi-tiered approval process involving various levels of officiafs on
issues that should have been decided by the implementing agency without
delay.
(iii)  GOB did not delegate sufficient authority to the Chittagong Port Authority
(CPA) to decide significant project issues. CPA had to obtain approval for
these actions from the Ministry of Shipping (MOS, the former Ministry of
Port, Shipping and Inland Waterways - MPSIW), which had to consult, in
turn, with the Council of Ministers or various other ministerial committees.
Simple decisions that would have been best made by CPA alone had to be
approved by officials in the various ministries.
(iv)  The delay in appointing the consultant for the civil works caused sequential
delays in the whole project implementation. When the multipurpose berth
(MPB) contract was signed in December 1983, the Council of Ministers
rejected CPA's request to award the consultant contract for all civil works
to the consultant that had carried out the feasibility study for the project and
the detailed design for the MPB. The Council of Ministers decided that the
contract should be divided into two separate contracts, i.e., one for
supervision of the MPB and the other for the preparation of detailed
engineering and bidding documents for the MPB Back-up Facilities
(MPBBF) and its supervision. Consequently, CPA had to initiate competitive
bidding for the two consultant services after the contractor for the MPB had
already mobilized.
(v)   Six months after the signing of the MPB civil works contract, a new
consultant was appointed for supervision of the MPB, and 18 months after
the signing, the same consultant was finally appointed for design and
supervision of the MPBBF. The consultant took 24 months to finalize the
detailed design and bidding documents for the MPBBF. As a result, the bid



Iiii
invitation for the MPBBF was delayed about four years from the original
date set at appraisal. The back-up facilities were thus not completed until
five years after the completion of the multipurpose berths.
(vi)  Imolementation Exoerience: Significant delays and failures in procuring
some critical components occurred in the project implementation in addition
to the four-year delay in inviting bids for the MPBBF contract. These were:
(a) the two-year period spent in awarding the MPBBF contract after bid
opening, which was due to delays in bid evaluation and internal clearance
and the subsequent bid cancellation by the lowest bidder after one year of
negotiations; (b) delay in establishing the central workshop and four zonal
workshops until the end of the project; (c) failure to establish the MIS due
to CPA holding up approval of the draft MIS report for two years; (d) failure
to procure the container equipment planned in the fourth Finnida grant due
to delay in GOB presenting a formal request to Finnida; (e) failure to
procure quay-side gantry cranes under the IDA credit due to delay in GOB
making a decision to use the savings in credit funds; and (f) failure to repair
the 1991 cyclone damage due to delay in GOB authorization.
A main cause of the failures was the time-consuming bureaucracy in the
decision-making  process within GOB.   Under the GOB  system,
responsibility for project implementation is diluted, and no official or
organization is accountable for unsatisfactory project results.
(vii)  Results: Overall, the project did achieve its principal objective, i.e. to
provide Chittagong Port with adequate capacity for handling the expected
growth in general cargo and container traffic through the early 1990s. The
handling of 8 million tons of cargo in 1989 and the reduction by about 50%
in combined ship waiting and service time in eight years clearly attest to this
accomplishment. However, various aspects of port productivity, such as
cargo handling speed per gang, cargo dwell time and equipment
availability, still need to be improved. Lack of the MIS, insufficient port
personnel training and delays in establishing maintenance workshops
hamper improvements in port productivity. Streamlining labour assignment
practice and strict traffic control in the port premises are other issues that
need to be dealt with to further improve the efficiency of port operations.
(viii)  Institutional Performance: The expected benefits of the technical assistance
provided to CPA to improve its institutional performance have not yet
materialized, since the Training Institute is not being fully equipped and the
proposed organizational structure will not be implemented.  CPA staff
involved in the project, however, benefitted from the transfer of experience
from expatriate consultants and contractors.
(ix)  Financial Performance: CPA's financial performance since the project
became effective in 1982 was satisfactory. The operating ratio improved
from 0.73 in FY84 to 0.55 in FY91.



iv
(x)   Sustainability: The project has had the following significant benefits: (a) In
the case of dry cargo, ship time waiting for berth has declined from an
average of 4 days per ship to 1.05 days in 1991/92 and 0.3 day in 1992-93;
(b) Service time for dry cargo ships has been reduced from around 6 days
to 4.3 days in 1991/92 and 3.3 days in 1992/93; (c) Because of the
improvements in cargo handling made possible by the project, especially
for handling containers, additional investments in fixed facilities have not
been necessary, although actual productivity improvements have fallen
short of targets assumed at appraisal; (d) Some steps have been taken for
the training of workers and for the installabon of a management information
system; and (e) Port operating efficiency has undoubtedly improved as a
result of the new facility and equipment and training of operators under the
project. The completed project's estimated ERR of 31 percent is very
satisfactory and compares with the appraisal estimate of 23 percent.
(xi)  Findings and Lessons Learned: The following are possible lessons from
the project experience:
(a)  If the Bank Group had provided GOB with sufficient funds to
complete not only the preliminary but also the detailed design and
bid documentabon for the MPBBF before appraisal of the project,
and if the Bank had convinced GOB that only one consultant should
supervise a combined civil works contract, including the MPB and
MPBBF, the project could have been completed five years earlier at
lower cost;
(b)  If the Bank had urged GOB to decide on adjustments, which are
necessary in Bangladesh conditons, of the method of recruiting the
consultant for the civil works before CPA started negotiations with
the consultants, Maunsell, who studied the project feasibility,
substantial delays might have been avoided;
(c)   Had the Bank, MOS and CPA agreed at appraisal on a certain level
of container traffic which would activate the procurement of quay
container cranes, quay cranes could have been procured and
installed without delay; and
(d)  If the Bank had insisted that GOB streamline the decision making
process for procurement and delegate authority for project
implementation to a joint committee consisting of selected MOS and
CPA senior managers, decision making would have been much
more efficient.






BANGLADESH
Chittaaona Port Proiect (Credit 1247-BD)
Project Completion Report
Part l: Project Review from Association Perspective
1.   Project Identity
Name             :    Chittagong Port Project
Credit Number    :    1247-BD3
RVP Unit         :    South Asia Region
Country          :    Bangladesh
Sector           :    Energy and Infrastructure
2.   Background: Bangladesh's sea-borne international trade is handled mainly at the
ports of Chittagong and Mongla (Khulna), which are operated by the Port Authority of
Chittagong (CPA) and the Port of Mongla Authority, respectively. Chittagong is the
country's main port and has experienced steady traffic growth since the partition of the
subcontinent in 1947 when Calcutta, in India, which used to serve the East Bengal
hinterland, ceased to be the preferred port. Chfttagong port facilities and throughput
grew from four berths, handling about 0.5 million tons, in 1947 to 17 general cargo
berths, several jetties and moorings, handling about 6.2 million tons in 1979/80. In the
latter year, average berth occupancy was as high as 92%, and average ship waiting time
for berth was four days. These delays resufted in various shipping conferences levying
surcharges of 10% to 20%. The high berth occupancy and the projected growth of traffic,
particularly of containerized cargo, highlighted the urgent need to expand the port's
throughput capacity.
3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1  Project Obiectives: The project sought to provide the Port of Chittagong with
adequate capacity for handling the expected growth in general cargo and container traffic
through the early 1990s. This was to be achieved, first, by constructing two multi-
purpose berths suitable for servicing general cargo as well as container vessels and,
secondly, by improving the throughput of the existing berths through the provision of new
cargo handling equipment and the training of port workers.
3.2  Proiect Descriotion: The project comprised: (a) the construction of two multi-
purpose berths (MPB), together with the needed back-up facilities (MPBBF), including
paved storage area of 188,000 m2 and a container freight station; (b) provision of
equipment, including spare parts, for handling containers and general cargo; (c) provision
of maintenance facilities; (d) supply of necessary equipment and auxiliary supplies for the



-2 -
Training Institute; (e) technical assistance to (i) develop a preventive maintenance
program, conduct a short term training program for equipment operators, port workers
and tally clerks and develop a long term training program, (ii) organize the Training
Institute's work program, (iii) develop a port management information system (MIS) and
(iv) prepare a container operations manual; and (0 engineering services for the detailed
engineering of the back-up facilities and for supervision of construction of the civil works
and procurement of equipment.
3.3   Multi-purpose Berths: The berths were designed to carry quay gantry cranes and
other container handling equipment. However, no gantry cranes were provided under
this project because the container traffic in the early years after project completion was
expected to move in vessels equipped with their own cranes. Suitable augmentation of
the MPB and MPBBF, including the provision of gantry cranes, was expected to be made
at a later stage under another project, if traffic growth justified it. As the project
implementation period was extended because of delays, it became evident that quay
gantry cranes were necessary to handle the container operations even at the end of the
completion of construction. However, they were not procured because the Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) did not see their urgent need.
4.   Proiect Desian and Oraanization
4.1 Proiect Organization: Decision-making was inefficient due to a multi-tiered
approval process involving various levels of officials on issues that should have been
decided by the implementing agency without delay. The organkation responsible for
coordinating the project's implementation project was a specially established Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by a Project Manager under CPA's Chief Engineer for
Planning and Development. The Project Manager was changed only once throughout the
project period to avoid disruption in project implementation. The Government of
Bangladesh (GOB), however, did not delegate sufficient authority to CPA to take
decisions on significant issues such as bid evaluation, contract variation orders and so
forth. CPA had to obtain approval for these actions from the Ministry of Shipping (MOS,
the former Ministry of Port, Shipping and Inland Waterway - MPSIW), which had to
consuft, in turn, with the Council of Ministers or various other ministerial committees.
Simple decisions that would have been best made by CPA alone had to be approved by
officials in the various Ministries. These latter officials could not carry out this function in
a timely manner, due primarily to lack of familiarity and experience with port matters.
After spending a lot of time on inquiries, clarifications and procedural corrections, GOB's
final decisions sometimes turned out to be irrelevant or caused unnecessary delays and
disruptions in project implementation.
4.2  Consultant Services for Civil Works: consultants (a) for supervision of the MPB and
(b) for gregaration of detailed engineering and bidding documents for the MPBBF and
its supervision: The delay in appointing the consultant for the civil works caused
sequential delays in the whole project's implementation. When the MPB contract was
signed in December 1983, GOB rejected CPA's recommendation to award the consultant
contract for all civil works to the consultant who had carried out the feasibility study for



-3-
the project and the detailed design for the MPB. Although the Association had already
given its "no objection" to this contract award, the Council of Ministers concluded that the
assignment should have been divided into two separate contracts, i.e., one for
supervision of the MPB and the other for the preparation of detailed engineering and
bidding documents for the MPBBF and its supervision. The Council further commented
that the consultant should have been selected through a competitive process instead of
sole source procurement, although sole source selection was consistent with World
Bank/IDA guidelines. The CPA Chairman was released from his position immediately after
the Council's rejection of the consultant selection, which caused staff morale to
deteriorate in CPA.
4.3  CPA then had to initiate a competitive selection process for the two consultant
service contracts after the construction contractor for the MPB had already mobilized.
GOB instructed the Project Manager to supervise the MPB contractor until the
appointment of the supervision consultant.  This forced the project manager to
concentrate on the MPB construction supervision, resulting in neglect of project co-
ordination at the very start-up stage of the project.
4.4   Delayed Appointment of the Consultant and its Impact: Six months after signing
the MPB contract, a new supervision consultant was appointed for the MPB and, 18
months after the signing of the MPB contract, the same consultant was finally appointed
for the MPBBF. The consultant took 24 months to finalize the detailed design and
bidding documents for the MPBBF. As a result, bid invitation for the MPBBF was delayed
about four years from the original date visualized at appraisal. The MPBBF was not
completed until five years after the completion of the MPB. The procurement of the
container handling equipment for the MPB under IDA financing and the three technical
assistance contracts, i.e., for manpower development, training in container operations,
and the management information system (MIS), were all postponed because the back-up
facility had to be fully operational in order for the equipment and training to be useful and
effective (see Project Implementation Schedule).



-4-
C,ACTr Ml.LEiNEATACM ICLS                  CVa '
1 30'W1 SNAA
A ACrWAU*OWJDd9 .1tN
*4J  '~~~  AM   446  *-47          'SW 'eM   eM
_ _ _ _ _ _ __   s  .      I X. ' SI              i  /        , I  I  ,     
w *       C                               C   *e I - -  - - - - - -
A                   I~~~~~~~~~~A
--W. 'A.         .                                   A                  I
:,,  :    I     ^,   _Aj   I      i  I   iAA
A~~~~~~~
:'- sr    Ci   C            ^   _   S      ^    ^  r    4  I  i  i '   ,  i
.-CA 7^c          ,                                             .-  -  I
~F .C   A3 g                                                       AlSp ,
9 _ c ' _ A   ----- W.X||||ArT R  A - - - -   .- - -
~~~K-~~~~~ Adle~~~A- 
. op   :..                      |--                          I A
…A1~~~~~~~~~A
5.     Proiect Implementation
5.1    Credit Effectiveness  and   Proiect Start-up:               The   credit became   effective   in
November 1982, three months behind  the date envisaged in the SAR. Existng structures
in the MPBBF area were dismantled without delay, and the bidding process for the MPB
construction started as scheduled. Completion of the detailed design for the MPBBF was
one of the conditions for credit negoUations; however, the Associaton changed this to
* ~a condition of credit effectiveness; eventually, this was also waived and the credit
declared effecfive.
5.2    Imglementation Schedule:  The original project implementaion period was five
years, and the original completon date was set for December 31, 1987. The credit
closing date was, however, extended five times to December 31, 1992. Although almost
all of the civil works and services envisaged in the project design had been completed
by the revised Credat Closing Date, some utems, as described in para. 5.3, remained
unprocured, without which CPA could not accomplish the project objectives satisfactorily.



5.3  Procurement: Significant delays and failures in procuring some critical components
occurred in project implementation in addition to the four-year delay in inviting bids for
the MPBBF contract. These were:
(a)  two years were spent in awarding the MPBBF contract after bid opening,
which was due to delays in bid evaluation and internal clearance, and the
subsequent withdrawal of the bid by the lowest evaluated bidder after one
year of negotiations;
(b) the establishment of the central workshop and four zonal workshops was
delayed until the end of the project;
(c)  the MIS was not implemented due to CPA holding up approval of the draft
MIS report for two years;
(d) container handling equipment, for which funds were offered under the fourth
Finnida grant, were not procured due to GOB's delay in presenting a formal
request to Finnida;
(e)  quayside gantry cranes were not procured under the IDA credit due to
GOB's delay in making a decision; and
(f)  there was failure to repair the cyclone damage in 1991 due to delay in GOB's
authorization.
5.4   A main cause of the failures was the time-consuming bureaucracy in the decision-
making process within GOB, whereby the responsibility for project implementation was
diluted, and no official or organization is accountable for unsatisfactory project results.
This was reflected in the procurement of:
(i)  Civil Works - MPB: In spite of the delay in appointing the consultant,
described in para. 4.2, the contractor managed to finish the MPB within three
years, about nine months ahead of the SAR schedule, and the final contract
cost was 30% below the SAR estimate. Disruption occurred in the
construction when the consultant for supervision refused to take
responsibility for the stability of the revetment slope and the retaining wall in
the original design by the previous consultant. Subsequently, he modified
the design, which caused some delays and increased the contract cost
because the change was made 14 months after the construction contract
signature.
(ii) Civil Works - MPBBF: The work was completed in three years but with a
cost increase of US$ 20 million (more than 100% higher than the SAR
estimate). This cost increase occurred due partly to lack of accurate soils
data at appraisal and partly due to material and labor cost increases in the
contractor's home country during the contract period. The MPBBF contract



-6 -
was awarded three years after the completion of the MPB, but the contractor
did not mobilize sufficient equipment and personnel until 15 months later.
The cyclone damage in the port and various monsoon occurrences hindered
work, but the contractor managed to finish the work within about three years,
six months behind the contract date.
(iii) General Carao and Container Handling Equipment:  The container
equipment procured was far less than the quantity necessary for satisfactory
operations. The Finnida grant and, to a lesser extent, the Bulgarian barter
program and the UK commodity grant, replaced IDA funds which were
originally allocated for the equipment for container and general cargo
operations. The procurement went well except for the final phase of
procurement of equipment to be financed under the Finnida grant and the
quay gantry cranes under the IDA credit. The planned procurement of four
heavy-lift front-loading trucks (FLTs), 12 sets of tractors and trailers, and four
straddle carriers, was canceled by Finnida in the last stage of the project,
only three months before the project completion date. CPA will have to
handle the containers in the back-up facility area with the existing equipment,
which is far less than the equipment required for smooth operations. The
average availability of the FLTs is only 65 percent, and this will decrease
drastically unless spare parts are procured in the near future. In view of the
rapid increase in container traffic, the Association proposed in 1988 to
finance two quay gantry cranes, utilizing the savings of about US$12 million
under the credit; however, GOB did not accept the proposal because it was
not originally included in the project. Without sufficient and proper container
handling equipment, the benefits of the investment in infrastructure will not
be fully realized.
(iv) Cyclone Damage: All government procedures were followed rigorously to
include a new component for repairing cyclone damage, but there was no
time left for implementing it. The cyclone damage occurred in April 1991,
and CPA wanted to expand the scope of the Credit to include emergency
repairs to a berth structure and the restoration of the navigational aid system;
the Association agreed to the proposal, and the Credit Agreement was
amended accordingly. However, inclusion of new items in the project
required a lengthy and complicated authorization process within GOB, and
this took CPA 18 months to complete. Finally, CPA managed to get the
required authorization from GOB just before the credit closing date (leaving
no time to actually undertake the repair work).
5.5  Project Cost: The project's estimated cost at appraisal was about US$ 110 million.
The final project cost was about US$ 93 million, as shown in Table 3 in Part l1l. The cost
saving was mainly due to failure to procure the necessary container equipment for the
MPBBF as described in the previous section.



-7 -
5.6   Disbursement:  Estimated disbursements from Credit 1247-BD are given in
Table 10 in Part l1l. The closing date was extended five years and a sum of SDR 12
million was canceled in November 1988, in view of the Finnida grant for container
equipment. Disbursements against commitments were made until May 1993, and the
remaining balance of about SDR 9 million was canceled.
5.7   Disbursements from the Soecial Account: In 1985, the Association learned that
GOB was experiencing difficulties in the operation of the special account involving the
transfer of credit funds to CPA. Funds disbursed by the Association for reimbursement
of project expenditures already prefinanced by CPA were being withheld by GOB instead
of being released to CPA, as required under the Development Credit Agreement. This
represented a significant financial burden on CPA. Although the supervision missions
discussed the issue with the Ministry of Shipping, the problem continued, and in 1987 the
Association decided to discontinue the use of the special account, albeit temporarily. The
situation improved subsequently.
5.8  Credit Allocation: The original and revised allocations of Credit 1247-BD are shown
in Table 10 in Part Ill. The original allocation was (1) supplemented in July 1984 by
increasing the total IDA credit by SDR 6.7 million, (2) partly canceled in November 1988,
in view of the Finnida grant for container equipment, reducing the credit amount by SDR
12 million, and (3) further amended in November 1991, allowing for provision for repair
of the cyclone damage. The undisbursed amount of about SDR 9 million was canceled
in June 1993.
6.   Proiect Results
6.1  Proiect Obiectives: The project has achieved its principal objective of providing
Chittagong Port with adequate capacity for handling the expected growth in general
cargo and container traffic through the early 1990s. The handling of a cargo volume of
8 million tons in 1989 and the achievement of about 50% reduction in both ship waiting
and service time clearly attest to this accomplishment. However, various aspects of port
efficiency, such as cargo handled per gang hour, cargo dwell time in storage, and
equipment availability, still need to be improved, as shown in Table 7, Part Ill. Lack of the
MIS, inadequate port personnel training and delays in establishing maintenance
workshops hamper improvements in port productivity.
6.2  Physical Results: The MPB, MPBBF and workshops were completed, albeit
substantially behind schedule, while the equipment for cargo handling and workshops
was procured as planned at appraisal.
Financial Performance
6.3  The appraisal financial estimates and actual results for CPA's Income Statements,
Cash Flows and Balance Sheets for FY 1982-1992 are shown in Table 11 (Income
Statement), Table 12 (Sources and Applications of Funds) and Table 13 (Balance Sheet).
During project appraisal it was recognized that CPA's accounts and finances needed



- 8 -
improvement. The most critical deficiencies involved the lack of a proper fixed asset
register, worthless receivables and firm payables (including loans), doubtful debts,
obsolete stock, slow preparabon of accounts, lack of proper auditing, poor management
and budgetary controls, and tariffs being unrelated to the costs of providing the services
for both vessels and cargo. Under Technical Assistance Credit 872-BD, an accounting
and financial services and tarfff structure study was undertaken in 1980, which
recommended that: (a) CPA's accounting system be modified and adapted in order that
revenues by services could be identified and matched against the cost of service
provision; (b) CPA's tariff structure be simplified and rate levels established to reflect the
cost of service provided; and (c) training be provided to CPA staff to improve skills in the
management of its accounts. These recommendations were to be implemented under
Phase II of the Accounting and Tariff Study, beginning in 1982, with the supervision and
assistance of the consultants. To monitor the effectiveness in implementing the
recommendabons, GOB and the Association agreed on several covenants: (a) a time
table for the completion of the Accounting and Tariff Study; (b) linking of tariffs on vessels
to a major convertible currency; (c) revision of tariffs from time to time to generate
sufficient revenue to cover all cash operating expenses, including debt service charges,
and contribute no less than 40% towards annual capital expenditures; (d) undertaking of
no investments in excess of US$2.0 million on items outside agreed investments without
prior consultation with the Association; and (e) incurring of no new debt (other than those
relating to the proposed project) unless the debt service payments on the current and
new borrowing would be 1.5 times by the cash generated by CPA's operations.
6.4  CPA's financial performance since the credit became effective in 1982 has been
satisfactory, as per audited financial statements. Revenue increased by an average of
28% annually between 1982 and 1992. This was possible through a combination of
growth in cargo handled, averaging about 5.5% per annum between FY84 and FY89, and
the introduction of tariff increases in FY82 and FY86. Between FY84 to FY90, revenues
increased by about 30% p.a., while operating expenses increased by about 20%. The
operating ratio improved from 0.73 in FY84 to 0.55 in FY91. Internal cash generation was
above 60% from FY84 onwards, and the rate of return on fixed assets increased from 8%
in FY84 to over 20% in FY92. As a resuft of this performance, CPA far exceeded the
financial requirements covenanted in its Project Agreement with the Assocation.
6.5  In FY88, the Assocation learned that CPA was not making interest payments on
the debt in accordance with onlending agreements. After discussions, CPA agreed to
make all current and arrear interest payments in the following year (FY89), totalling
Tkl 82.6 million. Since then, CPA has complied with all onlending arrangements and has
been current in its debt service payments. CPA enforces strict financial discipline on its
customers, as it does not provide services on credit. Cargo is delivered on cash
payment by the customers, except for Food Department commodity imports, for which
three-month average credit is allowed. This, however, represents less than 10% of all the
cargo handled by CPA and is usually covered by a bank guarantee. With regard to
vessel charges, CPA has established a system whereby all shipping agents representing
vessels using CPA facilities are required to maintain a revoMng account in a local bank,
which covers shipping charges for vessels. This system has helped to reduce the level



- 9 -
of accounts receivable, a problem that is endemic to other public corporations and
institutions in Bangladesh.
6.6  An Accounting and Tariff Study to improve CPA's accounting system and tarfff
structure was completed under the Technical Assistance Credit 872-BD in April 1981.
Among the recommendations, the consultants suggested the creaton of a fixed asset
register, evaluation of fixed assets, the writing off of obsolete and worthless items on both
the assets and liabilities side of the balance sheet, and a cost accounting system for
establishing cost-based tariffs. Although it was expected that two years would be
required to achieve full implementabon of the recommendabons starting from May 1982,
the implementation was not completed until September 1985. The accounting system
took even longer to evolve to an efficient level as, even after implementation was
completed, refinements were being made into 1988. As a result, preparation of financial
reports took longer than expected. The revised tariff system was not put in place until
June 1987. The resulting tariff increase in FY88 improved revenues by 33%, thus
enabling CPA to generate adequate cash for debt service. This was the first tariff
increase since 1982, and CPA has not increased tariffs again since then, although a staff
cost adjustment of 50% on 15% of CPA's services (those considered by CPA to be labor-
intensive) was implemented in 1990. CPA's debt service level increased substantially in
FY89 and FY92 and is likely to increase more sharply in FY93, as principal repayments
under the credit become due, after the expiry of the grace period. The need for further
a tariff increase have therefore become more critical for CPA to generate adequate cash
resources to fully service the debt. Financial projections prepared by CPA show that
cash surpluses will be affected if required tariff increases are not implemented over the
next three years.
Audits
6.7  At appraisal, CPA's internal audit system was considered to be satisfactory,
although its effectiveness in protecting CPA's assets and enforcing financial discipline was
hampered because it was under the Ministry of Finance. ft was therefore recommended
that to improve its efficiency, the Audit Department should instead report directly to the
Chairman, from October 1, 1982. This was not implemented until FY88. In addition to
strengthening the internal audit function, CPA agreed to furnish to the Association copies
of audit reports of its financial statements within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Presentation of these reports was generally late in the first six years of project
implementation, because (a) the appointment of auditors, which requires approval by the
Ministry of Shipping, always took an excessively long time, and sometimes such
approvals were received six months after the report was due; and (b) preparation of the
financial statements by CPA took longer than expected, during the implementation of the
improved accounting system, contributing to the delays in audit. The situation improved
in FY91 and FY92, when the audit reports were furnished within one month of the due
dates.



- 10-
Institutional Performance
6.8   During appraisal of the project, CPA had a total staff of 150 officers and about
7,000 junior level employees, including an additional 6,000 laborers hired from local
contractors for the handling of cargo in the quays and sheds. This staff level was
considered excessive, and the Association recommended that CPA conduct an
assessment of the manpower requirements in different categories of staff and implement
a program, by December 1993, for correcting the imbalances. In addition, CPA's
planning activities were weak, because of the lack of a linkage between engineering and
development, traffic and finance activities. The existing planning unit was geared towards
meeting the Government orders rather than as tools for management decision-making.
The Association had, therefore, recommended the reorganization of the Planning Cell to
strengthen and expand its functions.
6.9  The assessment of CPA's manpower requirements also included a training
component, since it had been observed that CPA lacked an effective training program for
all staff levels. The Association had recommended that a properly planned and staffed
Training Institute be established, and the consultants were requested to recommend a
suitable curriculum and training materials and equipment. The contract for this consultant
assignment was not signed until December 1988, and the study commenced in January
1989; the consultants' report was completed in January 1992, about eight years behind
appraisal schedule. Part of the delay was because CPA proposed, and the Association
agreed, that the Manpower Planning and Training Study should start after the completion
of the Accounting and Tariff Study. However, although the Accounting and Tariff Study
was completed in 1986, procurement delays and lengthy GOB approval procedures for
consultant appointments delayed the start of the training study.
6.10 As a result of the delays, implementation of the recommendations was hampered
since there was no time for the consultants to act before the credit closed. Furthermore,
the procurement of training materials and equipment for the Training Institute was also
not accomplished before the credit closed, and although CPA had indicated that these
could be procured from its own resources, it is understood that CPA's Internal Audit
Department did not agree with the proposal. Although the consultants conducted some
pilot training of trainers during the study, most of the training is not being utilized in the
absence of a fully functioning Training Institute. Apart from the lack of training materials
and equipment, the Ministry of Shipping did not agree with the staffing structure
recommended for the Institute, so it is unlikely that it will ever develop into an effective
training mechanism  for CPA staff.  Regarding the manpower assessment and
organization structure recommended by the consultants, there was a general feeling
within CPA that a reorganization was not needed, and the proposed structure is,
therefore, not likely to be implemented. Although the study confirmed that CPA is
overstaffed, CPA management disagrees and has indicated that there will be no reduction
in staff.



- 11 -
6.11  In summary, the expected benefits of the technical assistance provided to CPA to
improve its institutional performance have not materialized. Institutional performance has
also been affected by frequent disruptions to operations as a result of labor problems.
CPA staff involved in the project, however, beneftted from the transfer of experience from
expatriate consultants and contractors.
7.   Proiect Sustainability
7.1   The project has had the following significant benefits:
(a)  In the case of dry cargo, ship time waiting for berth has declined from an
average of 4 days per ship to 1.05 days in 1991/92 and 0.3 day in 1992-93;
(b)  Service time for dry cargo ships has been reduce from around 6 days to 4.3
days in 1991/92 and 3.3 days in 1992/93;
(c)  Because of the improvements in cargo handling made possible by the
project, especially for handling containers, additional investments in fixed
facilities have not been necessary, although actual productivity improvements
have fallen short of targets assumed at appraisal.
(d)  Steps have been initiated for the training of workers and the installation of a
management information system; and
(e) Improvements in port operations arising from the introduction into service of
the new facilities and equipment and the training of operators are beginning
to be felt.
7.2  The project's cost and benefit streams up to 1992/93 are shown in Table 11
(Economic Return Analysis). The benefits will continue to increase with further growth in
traffic. Projected over an estimated 30-year life for the facilities, the project will have an
ERR of 31 percent, which is very satisfactory, and compares with 23 percent estimated
at appraisal. The return would be even higher if the productivity improvement targets
planned at appraisal are realized.
7.3   The project can be considered a sustainable investment on the basis of the
estimated economic return. Sustainability would be improved if targeted productivity
improvements could be realized. On the financial side, CPA's viability as an institution
has been strengthened by the completion of the project facilities.
Measures to Secure Sustainabilitv
7.4   CPA needs to
(a) repair and construct the cyclone damaged facilities as soon as possible;



- 12-
(b) equip the Training Institute to train CPA staff properly;
(c)  establish the MIS in the port based on the recommendations of the MIS
study and closely monitor port efficiency by means of port statistics based
on the MIS;
(d) procure two quayside gantry cranes to improve the efficiency of container
handling between ship and quay apron;
(e)  procure sufficient pieces of container handling equipment and spare parts
to ensure efficient container handling at the MPBBF;
(f)  define CPA's long term strategy to improve the efficiency of port operations,
by focusing on the institutional aspects;
(g) reach consensus with MOS about how delegation of authority to CPA will be
best implemented by MOS and CPA's accountability for results assured;
7.5   MOS needs to:
(h)  enhance its capability to administer port matters and to improve
communications with CPA; one idea is to keep a high-ranking CPA official
in one of its higher management positions, e.g. Joint Secretary, and alternate
him with another CPA official every two or three years;
(i)  implement the inland waterway container transport project to secure door to
door container transport; and
(i) delegate more authority to CPA, especially in procurement and other
administrative matters;
8.   The Association's Performance
8.1  In general, the Association tried to help the Borrower implement the project
expeditiously and to achieve the project objectives as much as possible. The Association
gave the Borrower proper advice to avoid anticipated difficulties during the course of
implementation. For example, the Association advised CPA to establish a foreign
currency account for urgent spare parts procurement to maintain equipment and to send
a team consisting of the senior managers of MOS and CPA to neighboring ports and
ESCAP, to get a clearer view about the MIS and modern container operations. The
Association also recommended that MOS and CPA set up a joint evaluation committee
to shorten the bid evaluation period. These were all intended to eliminate imminent
problems later encountered by CPA, but unfortunately the recommendations were not
implemented. The fact that the Association extended the Credit Closing Date five times
(for a total of five years) underscores the Association's support for and desire to help



- 13 -
CPA successfully complete the project. However, in retrospect, the following lessons may
be learned from the project experience:
(a) If the Association had provided GOB with sufficient funds to complete not
only the preliminary but also the detailed design and bid documentation for
the MPBBF before appraisal and had convinced GOB that only one
consultant should supervise one combined civil works contract including the
MPB and MPBBF, the project could have been completed five years earlier
at a lower cost (see Project Implementation Schedule and Annex 1);
(b) If the Association had urged GOB to make the necessary modifications to
the procurement method for selecting the consultant for the civil works
before CPA started negotiations with the selected consultant who had done
the project feasibility study, substantial delays could have been avoided;
(c) Had the Association, MOS and CPA agreed at appraisal on a certain level of
container traffic which would activate the procurement of quay container
cranes, quay cranes could have been procured and installed without delay.
Since projects tend to be delayed in Bangladesh and marine transport needs
can change rapidly during extended implementation periods, projects should
be structured to allow for accommodating such possible demand changes
during implementation; it is easy for GOB to cancel a component from the
original project but practically impossible to add a new component; and
(d) If the Association had been able to persuade GOB to streamline the
decision-making process for procurement and to delegate authority for
project implementation to a joint committee consisting of selected MOS and
CPA senior managers, decision-making would have been more efficient.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1  The slow, complicated bureaucratic decision-making system in the MOS and GOB
generally inhibited efficient project implementation throughout the whole project period.
Lack of delegation of authority to the executing agency was the main cause of delay.
Lack of commitment to use IDA funds also contributed to slow implementation. Even
after signing the Credit Agreement, GOB tried to identify an alternative source of funds
that could offer better debt service conditions or less stringent procurement rules.J]J
GOB and CPA staff argued that failure to procure quay gantry cranes and container
handling equipment in the Finnida fourth package and to establish the MIS could be
justified as these would have added to CPA's debt burden. Because of this short-sighted
view, the benefits of large investments in fixed facilities are not being fully realized.
jj US$ 12 million of the IDA credit was canceled in view of FINNIDA and other
donors' interest in providing cargo handling equipment.



- 14 -
9.2  All the credit covenants were complied with by GOB and CPA, as shown in Table
16, Part Ill.
10.  Project Relationship
10.1 Coordination between GOB/CPA and the Association was not always effective as
described in the previous section, although the Association and GOB/CPA were always
cooperative and tried conscientiously to make progress throughout the project period
under the prevailing circumstances. The Resident Mission in Dhaka played an active role
in pursuing and following up on pending issues with GOB/MOS/CPA.
11.  Consultina Services
11.1 The consultant, Maunsell and Partners, carried out the project feasibility study and
the detailed design for the MPB. Coode and Partners supervised construction of the
MPB and designed and supervised the construction of the MPBBF. Louis Berger carried
out the personnel development study and training. Uniconsultant prepared the MIS and
container operations manual. All except Louis Berger performed to the satisfaction of
GOB/CPA and the Association. The consultants for personnel development could have
done better if they had focussed their training efforts more carefully. In some ways the
lack of adequate response from the CPA to the personnel development exercise did not
provide the required productive atmosphere for the consultants.
12.  Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1 The SAR was adequate for setting up a useful framework for the Association and
MOS/CPA to review the project's progress. However, the initial engineering study for the
MPB and the cost estimates for the MPBBF had to be revised at the implementation
stage. This was mainly due to insufficient funds allocated to the feasibility study and to
difficulty in carrying out adequate soil investigations before the MPBBF area was cleared.
The five-year delay in carrying out the MPBBF civil works greatly distorted the original
cost estimates. CPA exerted itself to compile quarterly progress reports on project
implementation. These helped all the parties concerned to closely monitor the project.
The port operations data were not always reliable due to delays in establishing the MIS.



15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A)    Confirm the adequacy and accuracy of the factual information contained in Part III
of the PCR
(if this has been sent to the Borrower)
Part III of PCR was received by CPA in July 1993.
The contents of Tables 1-6 of Part III appear to have been collected from CPA
sources. Adequacy and accuracy of the factual information are confirmed. There
appear to be some typographical mistakes and illegible figures in the tables which
need to be corrected/neatly printed.
B)    Comments on the analysis contained in Part I of the PCR
(if this has been sent to the Borrower)
Part I of the completion report was received by CPA in July 1993.
CPA in principle agrees to the views expressed on various issues in it.
CPA has plan to complete the balance works with its own resources to attain full
targets from implementation of the Project. It is hoped that procurement of balance
of container handling equipment, quay gantry orane and cyclone damaged
rehabilitation works will be taken up in the near future and completed expeditiously.
C)    Evaluate the Bank's performance during the evolution and Implementation of the
Project with Special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant for the future
The following may be taken into consideration in evaluating the performance of the
Bank:
1) IDA extended it full co-operation and support in implementing the Project
activities.
2) IDA maintained timely clearance of matters, timely answer to queries and timely
payment.
3) IDA maintained periodic supervision on a regular basis.
4) On the whole, IDA maintained timely clearance of Contract Documents and
regular communication of disbursement position. Considerable time was lost on a few
occasions due to disagreement between IDA and the BORROWER on conditions of
Contract and on Technical matters.
5) IDA closed the credit no. 1247-BD on 31.12.1992 when some works under this
credit were yet to be completed. Inspite of repeated requests of GOB, IDA did not
agree to extend the credit in question for a further one year. the Refusal of IDA to



16
extend the credit closing date beyond 31.12.92 has thrown CFA and GOB in an
embarrassing position regarding payment to the contractors and the Consultants for
the works/services performed by them though Contracts were awarded to the said
Contractors and the Consultants with the vetting of IDA. Now these payments are
to be made to the Contractors/Consultants from CPA's own funds.
D)   Evaluate the Borrower's own performance during the evolution and Implementation of the
Project, with Special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant for the future.
The following may be taken into consideration to evaluate the Borrower's
performance.
1)    Length decision making process towards clearance of documents and award
of Contracts delayed implementation of certain components of the project.
2)    For avoiding delay in works, existing administrative procedures for approval
and award of contract should be simplified as suggested by IDA in Part I.
E)          Assess the effectiveness of the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
during the evolution and Implementation of the Project
A good understanding and working relationship has beam maintained throughout the
project period between IDA and the Borrower. Project implementation issues were
discussed as and when required and resolved amicably.
F)    Evaluate the performance of Co-financiers and assess the effectiveness of their relationship
with the Borrower during the evolution and Implementation of the Project
The following were the co-financiers of the Project:
1. FINNIDA.
2. Bulgarian Barter.
3. U. K. Commodity Aid.
Although the above co-financiers provided planed assistance for successful
implementation of the Project.
Although FINNIDA maintained good relationship with CPA, it withdrew its
commitment of FIN 52.00 Million of Grant Assistance informing that due economic
recession in Finland they would not be able to provide the Grant. This put CPA in
difficulties in procurement of container handling equipment, including supply of spare
parts and technical assistance. CPA is now planning to procure the equipment with
its own fund.
"OOM41
;g -



- 17 -
Part III: Statistical Informatio
Table I - Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
NONE



BANGLADESH
Chittagong Port Project
Proiect ComIetion Retort
Table 2 - Proiect Timetabl
Item                            Date                Date                  Date
Planned             Revised               Actual
- Identification                                                          1980/81
- Preparation                                                             1981182
- Credit Negotiation               -                                      1981/82
- Credit Signature              21/5/82                                   21/5/82
- Credit Effectiveness         17/11/82                                   17/11/82
- Credit Closing               31/12/87                                   31/12/92
- Credit Completion                -                                      30/4/93



- 19 -
BANGLAESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPIOT1OqN REPOrT
LABME 3 - SCHEOULE OF DOSIURSEMENTS
(Cr. No. 1247-90 & SUPP. Cr. No. 1504-280)
IOA Fiwal Year                      Ot,ursement in USS 000
& Quarter Enpmin            Ounng Quarter                 CumulaCve
Estimated        Actal      Enrsatg
fY 983
September 30. 1 9             300             -           300
December 31 '982             1.000             -         1.300
March31 1982 '               1,500             -         2.800
June 30. 1983                2.000             -         4.S00
fY 1964
SepttmDet 30. 19 0           2.500            -          7.300
0ecrm Der 31. 1983           2.700             -        10.000
Marcn31. I983                3.500             -        13.500
Juno 30. '983                3.800             -        17.300
FY t 985
SptemDer20. 1964             4200           sa2         21.500          52S   * Startedon
24-7-64
0ecenbr 31 ¶984              4 500         I 408        2e.000         1 990
Marcn, 31 1984               4.700          379         30.700         2.369
June 30 1984                 4 300           336        35.000         2.705
FY 1988
Sep temoer 30. 1985          4,100         3.722        39,100         6.427
DecemDer 31. 1965            4.000         i.229        43,100         7.656
March 31 1985                3,700         2.088        46,800         9.744
June 30, 19845               3.500         2.038        50.300        1 t7a03
FY 1 98a7
Septermter 30. 1t98          3.000          926         53.300        12.708
0 cembar 31. 196            2.500            8e        55.80         12.792
March 31. I908               2,000          4ee         57.So         13,278
June 30. 19g6                1.200         1.10a        59.000        14.3aa
FY 198
SeptemDcrn30. 1987             500            60
December 31. 1987              500           744        59,500        14.4a
March 31 1987                                  -        60.0o3        15.190
June 30. 9E7                                   -                      15.190
15, 190
FY ¶989
September 30. 1986                           139                      15329
Decomorw 31 1988                              42                      i5,371
Marcn3t 1988                                  31                       5.402
June 30 1988                               3.956                      19t358
FY 1i90
Sepemboer 30. 199                             51                      19.4(0
OeCem  br31. I198                             89                      19,4U
March 31. 1989                               877                      20.175
June30. 1 989                               8S7                       21.072
FY 1991
September30 1990                             580                      21,GW
0ecemtmr 31 1990                             232                      21. 84
March31. 1990                              2.1e2                      24,046
June 30. 1990                              4.091                      28,137
FY I 999
SeptemDer 30. 19t1                         4.052                      32.109
December 31. 1991                            649                      32.838
March 31 19I 91                            5.071                      37,90w
June 30. 1991                              2.969                      40,873
FY 1g3
September 30.  999                         3.737                      44,615
December 31. 1992                            626                      45.241
Marcn 31. 1992                             3.5s2                      4. 823



BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 4 - TRAFFIC THROUGH CHITTAGONG PORT
(000 TONS)
Fofecast
76 - 77  77 78j  78 79  79 80  80 - 81  81-82  82 -83  83 - 84  84 - 85  85 - 86  86 -87  87-88  88-89  89-90  90- 91  91-92 91-92
Raw Jute & Jule Goods          224     215      184      171     183      214     212      192      155     136      117     121      104      80      141     160      267
Foodgrain r                    552     884    2044    1021       998    1254    1572    1572    2060        793    1340    2273    1706    1116    1275    1235 _608
Fertilizer                      91     333      537      439     236 _ 309        208  _ 232 -   430        490       51     106      231      142     182     231    619
Cement n      _t92                     177      153      311     247      331      551     614      735     597      626     578      799      573     514      482     361
Cement Clinkef                  21     239      175      245     182      150      169     240       91      131     163     168      213      178     150      148  _ 270
Coni=         __00          - 0 100    138       89      127     180      197       93      32        1      30       89      48       22     282       46 _     31     278
Iron & Steel (!nc Pig lron_   _96 _  224        227      270     330 _    78       184     422      223     267      330     171      282      376     208      243     780
General Cargo & Other          749     850    1028       873    1484    1357    1639    1378    1840    1764    1857    2212    2595    2699    2555    2540    1868
ry Cargo Total                1925    3060    4437   _3457    3840    3890    4628    4682    5535    4208    4573    5677   5952 _ 5446    5071    5070    5035
LContinerizd Cargo include above)            _-- --            _       _             _ 
TEUS(1000TE4 -                _-        _  -       ___ (3j  -_(51 ___(10)  -15k1  (154)    (25)    (39 9           (50)    (55)    (76)   ( 10)   (101)   (12O)  - (9)
TONSAl 000 ton    _--                         (23)    _23J -- (43)                   __(816- ((9J   (!66  257)   (34OJ -455)   (549)   (713)   (973- (890)  11082)   (600)
POL (Expot & Impotr           1522    1475    1797    2018    1811    1528    1446    1392    1623    1944    1666    2070    2005    2048    2130    1968    2530
Excd. Molasses)_ 
GrandToal M                =3447    4535 -6234    5475    5651    54i18    6074    6074    7158    6152    6239    7747 _ -7957 =7494    7201    7038    7565
06129



- 21 -
BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 5 - PROJECT EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
Target          1983- 84
Indicators                     Defination             (by June 1984)
a) Throughput per ship        Total gonnage handled divided by
number of days at CPA berth                     l
break-bulk general cargo       500 T/Ship day    440.86 T/Ship day
Palletizd general cargo        700 T/Ship day        x
Bagged cargo                    1200 T/Ship day   697.04
Iron and Steel                 800 T/Ship day    634.89
Fertilizer                      1200 T/Ship day   770.96
EFoodgrain                      1400 T/Ship day   1042.73
Container                        150 No. ship day 13.25 No. Ship day
b) Productivity Tons
per net gang hour           Total tonnage handled divided by
total gang time (including overtime)
less stoppages not attributed to the
gang (e.g. weather cargo/equipment
not available, etc)
G General Cargo                  15 T/Gang hr.    5.83 T/Gang hr.
Bagged Cargo                    25 '             11.77 '
Fertilizer                      15 g             9.94 s
Foodgrain                       30'              14.45 *
Container                       12 Nos. Gang hrs. 1382 Nos. Gang hrs.
c) Average Dwell Time         Ton-days of cargo in storage
beyond free period divided
by total tonnage stored
General Cargo (Inside)          25 days          21.13 days
General Cargo (Out-side)        25 '             20.23 '
Container (Full)                15 '             19.75 '
e Container (Empty)              25 '             33.50'
d) Equipment Availability      Equipment hours supplied
divided by equipment hours
requested                      70%               44.55%
e) Waiting time (hrs/ship)    Total time between arrival &
berthing of all ships divided                    2.04 day/ship
l____________________________  by  number of ships  berthed
f Service time (hrs/ship)     Total time at berth of all
ships divided by numberof ships                  7.2 days/ship
A.YRODU'CT.KI



BangRd..h
Chittagong Port ProPCt
(Credd 1247-BOD)
Projct Cornplbtion Report                 Contrmct ovr US $0.5 nilans kr Engneenng and Tdchwi*l Asslesnce
Table - 6 Procuremnt Process                  Contrcta and US $ 5.0 moila. kr Civ Work end Equipmt Conlacb
Contact            Bid Documents  Bid Openning    Bid Evaluation    IDA Approvl    Mm*atry Approval CounciWConIil  Lette of Intn    Contract Pnce  Peo of
to Bidde    *                                                               Approval        hssued                       Evalltion%Award
OA(O)          fM/O/Y)        fU/(YV)        t/D/Y)          OM/DfY)     f__Mi             11/D1D          (US SJ        ionfhJ
A. Engeering Serwice
I Feasfity Sludy nd Detiled Desn
DocunewitAbn for MP8              11.27. 79       1,25, 80      2. 14, 80       2,25, 80       4, 17. 80         -           4,26, 00         0.878            2
2 Supervision bor MP3
1.11.84        2.16,64        3,12,U4        3.12,84         6,23.,4        4,16.84        6,24.84         0785             3
3 Delbd Design and Suprvsion
OrmMPBack-upFaclites                1,11,84        2,16,84        3,12.84        12,16,84        5,25,85           -           5,27, a5         1.60            14
9.Tedncel ssstnc
4   r       Plning. Devlpmer
and Traing                          1,12,85        3,31,85        O,26, 85        4.24. 88       1.11.89        12. 18,86      5,16,8 9        1 257            47
C. CArl Work
5 Conectno of MPB
12,13.82       3,31,83        4,27,63        12,26,63        8,31,83           -           12,29,83        10899            a
0 Conetucton of MPB Beck-up
Facites                             6,24, 87       10,18,87       12, 3, 87      3,27,89         5,3,89         4,19,89        5,13,89         35.228           17
7 Construction of Cntb end Zonal                                                                                                                                               N
Worho 8p190                                        10290          101590         111290         12,12,90        8,2,91         3,12,91          4.5             5
a:Pro-sh.wkit



HANGLAOESH
CNITGONG POFt PROJEC
TAMIE 7 - COST
May I2 19B3
ESTIMATE                                                         ACTUAL _
haul  Descr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~TAKAS Milionsu                                          USSKMI6IOn  -Lis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ __ __                                                     .         _ ____                 _TAXAS M.lLK)_                                USS Millon X00-X=_U5Uo
2__                     3         -                       7                   9        1                                                LocI          _n_-w-
Le r ~~~~~_  "-on_ __ __                  _ _S            nTi _  Loca  9l _w n    l_ __T--  L08  Fog~      Toua      uaIy-
A ML&TIPURPOSE BERlh-6
I  BerthSlructure                              15.300 n2           196900   255B0O   454500    11050    14200    25250 18000 m2   166714   331 340   496 054              5660    11219    186a0
2  BacktupFoSmas                               l50.000m2           200340    S1t90    282240    11 130       4500    15030 188,000m2   267816  1042625  1310501           7183    2o045    35220
3  Cortatrer HandlbgEquprmenr                                       94320   155340   24966D        5240      8630    13870                 55676    77582   133456        1 534     2Q03     30l7
B CAflGO HAN)LMG EQUPIMENT
I  Weunm CorXaner Facilmies                                         e2640   1009 0    163620       3480      5610      90BO               246266   292961   539247        7537     0909    1e446
2  Geera Cargo 6boha                                                                     0 000                         0 09o
i) Addlhonw Equmpnw                                              37.960    64 440   102 420     2110     3 580      5 00D              56181    C4M 1     120 346      1 684    2 318     4202
a) ReplacgirgEqu.pn37. 37260    61.920    99180                                                 2070      3440      5510               36761    40017    76778        1228      1357      2505
a) lauporlVaOI Pase Jep)                                                                                                                0770          -     0770      0028         -      0028
C MANTENANCE FACLITES
1 On Crdal worshops                                              27 36     16 56     43 90      1 520     0 920     2 440              60 007   184 565   264 572     2 050     4 743     8 8o2
*I zonal Worshop -C.                                              6120      3240      0360      0340      0 160     0520                13866     5001    la600       0440      0119      0925
* TRANIIAG Mr4TITUTE
EquprmwlTreen  Malaneisajudirg A lhorn                         11 880    9 00O    20 880    o06        0 SO      I a160    -          0 250        -      0 250     ° 007        -     0 007
E TECHN.ASSSTANCE & TRAINING
Tr_nnngA*vuoa (   por developmaw)    204 m1rn (106 4mM
0 I0.09W
* 98 mnfm 03,000)             24.60)    24 660               1 370     1 370 153 nVm        0 115    42 M6    43111       0 003     1 254     1 257
U)  Couwxea Operalhon Mana                  12 11dm 0o10,000                2.160     2160               0120      0120  1375nVm        0000      6402      6402          -     0183      0103
mi PoenMeorl n Sw         s monnamlSyu      12 rn  ln VmO10.OW              210D      2160               0120      0.120   11nVm        0034      4788      4820      0001      0138      0130
N) FmdaTuawdw     C PA C-PAcpwaps                   -                       0000      O00(Q              0000      0000  230m m         39OW     as8199    71 199     0934      2035      298
v) Ov_  Feown*                             120Ct mhn II 3,000              6480       4a0               0 360     0 360      -         OOW       0.OQ     000        O 000      0 000    a 000
F. ENGEER4IG SERVICES
4   Fmti  Stud & Olgud Bwuh EWB)                                                                                           75ffmhn      1049    20.555    21604       0043      0835     0678
w IDC. NC . 8t72 9O  9 022 0D)
4   Om"nChKa 88dSt4 uOn                                                   27U1A      27.160               1.510    1.510   51 m,n       0240    22334    22574        0009      0776     078tS
'4  PmpNon d Doegn  Supanu
d Bockup FaciWsa                                                      25.020    25 020               f390      1.390  491 11m      0 586    57.026    58 516     0016      I as8     I 814
a)  Pmpanmbn of Dalgna I Top Supervm
dO      eOno A Zand Wmaop - 13'                                   (kcdedaabove)                 (nkxcuddn abonv)    48.75 nfn      0031      3.443     3 474     0001      0 104     0.10I
.4 Coafcraybr Cuo Hmnldk  Equpnmt                                          12240    12.240               0.80o     0eo0      -
4   011 UCon q  _Cy                                                                                                       28. 5 mS      0 039        -      O 039     0011         -     0011
G CONTINENCES
* Phyic                                                         54360    61.380   115.740      3.020     3410     a430       -         -         _         _
4 Pie                                                           167.40   166.740   336580      9360      9430    1a810       -         -         _         _
I iOVERP*AD
Q   Salay A AIowenmo d PU's Oiw A S£           .                                                                             -         25 200        -    25 200     0 739         -     0 739
4   Appreflicaship d CPA's Operalon &
MUhenc br Opwon d Fvvuh Equqmnwr                                                                                         -          7130         -      7130      0 206        -     0 200
4  O Cff  Conlagny                                                                                                           -          Iow          -      IODO     0032          -     0032
=  GRANDTOTAL: __                69990   107B.000  197.000    SO.Ct    59980  109950                    9fi3001 22t4919 3227920    29501    654e    9547
A%OUIeCOST.WK I                                                                                                                * - - The Falal paymaa ad poae .c1tm am nckded in the vanoue gem



CI11T TAGONG PORT AUTI tORITY
C&IlITAGONC PORT PROJSEC
PHOJECT COMiPLETIN REPORT
TABLE 8 - SOURCE OF FUND
SOURCE OF FUND                    IDA CREDIT NO  1247 -BE. 1504- 280 87280 622BD FINNISH GRANY
BULGARIA BARTER NOS 8 AND 9. UK - 8D CP P0DTU XOD AUD CIA PWM FiMD                                                                 May 12. 1t93
ITEM              DESCRIPION                         TOTAL                     iDA                   FINNIDA             UKL-BD COMM AID            BULt-BARTER                  CPA
_     LOCAL ]F OREIGN7TOiAL  LOCAL IFOIE IGN 1OTAL  LOCAL IF OREIGNI TOAL  LOCAL  IfOFE IGNJ1OTAL  LOCAL  FOREIGN ITOTAL  LOCAL iFOREIGN*TOTAL
_ =                                6 0  _0_00  0                    10- -I -41- 50  |XX-|   7   ~  8  9  __=   0  ?  !3.. --14 IS I  16  17  iS  t1    -°20 
A MULTIPURPOSE BERTHS
I     BouhSrucdi*e                          580   11219  1609           -   11 219  11219        -        _       _       _       _ -  -   -                            5880        -   5880
2      Backup Facui.s                       7 183   28 04f  35 228       -   2 045  28 045       -        -       -       _        _       _      _7 --                   ite          l7es
3      Conra.er HancllngEqulpm.rm           1 534    2083   3617         -    0538   0538        -    1 545   1 545       _        _       _      _        _       -   t534         -   1 534
B CARGO HANDLING EQUIPMENT
I     harim Codamtr Facaciiis               7 537    8 909  18446       -        -       -                6909      909   _       _       _       _                     7 537       -   7 537
2      G.n.rat Cargo Beha
I) Aaddsonal Equspnwfi                  1884    2 318   4 202       -    I 123   I1.23       -        -       -       -    0 210   0 210      -    0 985   09gab   1 884        -   1 884
u) Repiar*mea-Equ.pman                  1228    1357   2585         -    1 047   1 047       -        -       -       -    0210   0210        -    0100   0 100   1228          -   1 220
I) rampo  Veicles                       0 028        -   0 028      -         -      -       -        -       -       -        -       -               -       -   0 028        -   0 028
C MAINTENANCE FACUTIES
I) Ona ConUal Worksop & 208t
Worl hop -B                         2 059    4 743   0 802       -    4 743   4 743      _ -          -       -       -        -       -       -           -   2 059        -   2 059
Cev Woria                            1 791    3275   5068         -    3275   3275        -         -      -       -        -       -      -                -   1 791-           1 791
Equpmenr                             0 268    1 468   1 73        -    1 468    1 40           -       -       -       -        -       -       -           -   0 268        -   0 268
II Zonal Workihop - C                   0 448    0 179   0 625      _ -          -       -        -       -       -       -        -      -        -           -   0 448        -   0 448
Cit WoulO                            0 252        -   0 252      _ -           -      -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -           -   0 252        -   0 252
EquepmorW (TooL)                     0 194    0 179   0 373       -        -      -       -    0 179   0179        -        -       -      - _              -   0 194        -   0 1I4
D TRAINING INSTITUTE
TrairwgMieials                       0 007        -   0 007      _-                            -       -       -       -                                    -   0 007        -   0 007       N)
E TECHNIAL ASSISTANCE &'TRAINING
o Manpowr PLwng. Dmvkpmeu
* Trauwng                            0003    1254   1257               1254   1254        _-                                -                               -   0003         -   0003
a) Contaew. OperboEn lravwgManual       0 000    0 183   0 183      -    0 183   0 183       -        -       -       -       -       _       -        -        -                      -
v4 Po0t ManagwBwIft   nn System          OOol    0138   0131        -    0138   0.131        -        -               _       _       _       _        _       _   0001         -   0001
ml TraMwg Of OPeton by F¶iv     Exper n    0934    2 035   2 9O                              -    2 035   2 035       _       _       _       _        _       _   0934         -   0934
F ENGNEERA4 SERVICES
* Foem fi Slud& D Dagn ofBd  /i(MP8   0.043    0 835   0 878        -    0835   0 835        -        -       -      -        -       -       -        -       -   0043        -   0043
4 Degn Chclk &  SupeIVion do MPH        0009    0 77i  01785        -    0 710   0 770       -        -       -                                                                     O 0   0009
U) PrMals0onf Design & SuIpSVUion of
BadwupFaia                           0 018    1.l88   14         -    1600   188 -I a m                    _         _        _ -  -  -                         0018        -   0018
wI Prpeardaon of Design & Top Superveaon
od Ctd I Zonu Wohop -8               0 001    0 104   0 105      -    0 104   0 104       -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -        -     u00      -   0 001
v) Ouw Conulancy                        0 01t       -   00 i    0 000    0 000   0 000       _        _  -        -       -           _          _     _           0011        -   0011
GC CONTiNGENCiES                           _-                            -       -           -        -      -       -        -           -                                -           -
N OVERHEAD COST
Sa    and ANGownca of Pils
Oilgc NW Sim                         0,739        -   0 739      -         -      -       -        -       -         _        _       _       _     _           0 739       -   0739
a) Apprwtehqp d CPsA' Operiolos/
MecDwws bo Operdion of
Frmh Eshnquipnaet                    0208        -   0 208       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -   0 208       -   020
) Oflu Conigency                        0 032       -   0 032       -        -       -       -        -       -      -        -       -       -        -       -   0 032       -   0032
GRANDTOTAL            -29581_  5848  95427   0000   51873  51673   0000   124a   12 000I               0   0-420- 0420   0 000 11085   1 085d   25tn          00002 9
~~~~~~~ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  ~~~ ~       ~          ~          ~          ~         ..The 11w) paymeris anid pu6sIbe clairu are Minuded in Ind Va(iniA ieIlUm



ami   cuc    um c l       weu  Ai M         aCo    toe    "wz   mr         a am nE   a*     it lcc-,   cta  r   S     tc gt   mew    am1    act..   of         am      me      m ir       la                        Warn 3|ffii61
.W    go  mO                     mact    aIC   ea Ec   leca        a       mm                                                                                                                  I goLot MO"                  it
Or      "at      Le" rca                           lot     net    a ta      Mr      tot  cci                                                                                                                4'PC P|aB" VP _            i*
emaXl  *ssc              i  u             ae    U           iarc                            ai'      _ : a                                                                                              W__ .A       piit  I
Cl!                                                                                                                                                           be-swo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~msmt
ae   ecot..              -    ua  eei            -       t ma     -       att              atma             ie              mm                ct.            sawc r-           te _  cePSt
m Oa            Ism              t1-                                                                                                                                  _ -  -  I C  -  -  -Fm-AP Pe*oe           " -    0,19
me       teat                     -                                                                                  -       -                                 r-      - -s    cci  m    act,&W fl8I4 1_
etit    mm                                                                                                                   we p    C's    list              too      -       -       ml mc                                 Ol
se      u.--                                                                                                                                 m               ciat-            me       me               M-s.4ean-is, Iteat, a
ma       me      -                                                                                                                                                         -                        It -91 inam-Vyp           a
it--    masm    aesm    mcc    edno,  macar 1i.a_   Ift i ti etl  idiat  Zi to    LedZ             K It'    ea      coMs. =a        cuLt W    tic    me      11!              tEl    ma               .tdvo -,       mdfm   I
ma     mte -                                                                                                                                 'Cc -ee  -1                      int _a                  sp  tm Ap.5    C e   <w     1   _    el_             1 = i-l=
me      topi     -cmo                                                                                                                                                           met    mactU3  VIeetVA M                 m-d 
mc ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~u" ma                            -um  u                                                                     .e j 
coo     gem                                                                                                                                                                    to i I Na  et    M M               --Ms*tp tm.t I
ma4      Lie,                                                                                                                                                 IC IC             W of    wEit                  iA-WS Idolopo 
as otm.   aem      as tact         a. cm,           cc am,           at on.          i-iN."           iS eam.             9c.           at Mac          MC cm                        as at__ IIm
1t -as.. AA W)Ottd IN3VI15S31ANI S.Wd!)
a 31WV1
HS3Cd IO11d 914ffNVIIIH
HS WWaIDN"



BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 10 - Crdit Allocation
__ _ _____                                                                                                              SDR
Fund Allocation        Credit Agreement Supplementary   Revised Credi   Revised Credit    Disbursed    Disbursed       Remianed
Credn 1247- BD Credit 1504-BD Credit 1247- BD Credit 1247- BD Credit 1247- BD Credit 1504- BD
July 1984      Nov 1988        Nov 1991       May1993        Aug 1987
1       Civil Work
(a) Berth Structure              15.090           2.700         26.170          32.580         25.838          6A132           3.310
(b) Backup Facility               7.030           3.415                                                                        3.415
2       Equiprnent                         20.950              -          9 450           5.354          3.027                          2.327
3       lechnical Assist./ Engineering      5490               -          4.080           4.026          3.252          0.259           0.515
4       hi. Deposit Special AcrDunt            -           0.585                                         0.877                         -0.292
5       Unallocated                         5.440              -           2.300          0.040                    _    ___             0.040
Total                             54.000           6.700         42.000          42.000         32.994          6.391           9.315
May 1993



- 27 -
BANGLADESH
Chittagong Port Project
Project Completion Report
Table 11: Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
(USS million)
! ___          Base Case         l_      _ _
l     1     I _ _ _   Costs                                 I
Capital                       Total   Not Cash 1
Year       Invest.    Maint.    Total   Bnefits   Flows
1982        5.43                5.43               -5.43
1983        4.17                4.17              -4.17
1984       12.32               12.32              -12.32
1985       14.37               14.37              -14.37
1986       15.09               15.09             -15.09
1987       12.13               12.13             -12.13
1988        4.91                4.91              -4.91
1989       12.19               12.19             -12.19
1990       17.14               17.14             -17.14
1991       19.11               19.11             -19.11
1992       10.31               10.31             -10.31
1993                  5.82      5.82    171.83    166.01
1994                  5.82      5.82    174.87    169.05
1995                  5.82      5.82    178.00    172.18
1996                  5.82      5.82    181.14    175.32
1997                  5.82      5.82    184.34    178.52
1998                  5.82      5.82    187.60    181.78
1999                  5.82      5.82    190.92    185.10
2000                  5.82      5.82    194.26    188.44
2001                  5.82      5.82    197.74    191.92
2002 1/               8.72      8.72    201.28    192.56
2003                  5.82      5.82    204.88    199.06
2004                  5.82      5.82    208.55    202.73
2005                  5.82      5.82    212.27    206.45
2006                  5.82      5.82    216.11    210.29
2007                  5.82      5.82    220.02    214.20
2008                  5.82      5.82    224.00    218.18
2009                  5.82      5.82    228.05    222.23
2010                  5.82      5.82    232.17    226.35
2011                  5.82      5.82    236.40    230.58
2012 1/               8.72      8.72    240.71    231.99
2013                  5.82      5.82    245.10    239.28
2014                  5.82      5.82    249.57    243.75
2015                  5.82      5.82    254.13    248.31
2016                  5.82      5.82    258.80    252.98
2017                  5.82      5.82    263.56    257.74
2018  1               5.82      5.82    268.40    262.58
2019                  5.82      5.82    273.33    267.51
2020                  5.82      5.82    278.35    272.53
2021                  5.82      5.82    278.35    272.53
2022 1/               8.72      8.72    278.35    269.63
Total        127.17    183.30    310.47   6733.08   6422.61
ERR (%)         =      31.20     29.20     26.90
NPV (12%        =    278.85    310.45    242.07
A:\BENEFM.WKI



8ANGLAL)
CHI 7 IAGONG POR1I . OJfC r
IABLE 12 CPA INCOME4 AND (XPENDItUhI FORkC^SIS
FOR TIHE PEJOO FUY1071) 2
FIGURES IN CURRENT TAKA MILLtON
19011h72            198213              1983/4               1904/6             19868                1986617            1881/U               less        1800       I80I   I  162
A,p. Agluw      App,    A.WuS       App. - Aeluw        App,.Alu             s AAclul           Appa.    Ael-1      App,    AeuiAlu                     rlw Alwud              Atl
E..                 El                  t.1                  .l                 E.t.                 El                 E-s
V_-P..RA -.       106.0    132.21     1368.    I230 00    181.3    182 34      180.4    226.37    224.8    210.68      266.1   281 32    362 8      323 70        287.76     341.38     340.0o    32 00
C.80_.-          27461    280 13      364.6    274.13    418.3    211.60    483.0    41361    682.6    608.73    6813   687.00             14 1    683 71         908.66    1121.66    1109.66    1233226
p.n f    .         380.1    422.34     401.2    464.10    579.8   463.93    684.0    631.88    307.1    711.31    362.4    969 12    1266.7   1201.41             1280.40    1483.03   1828.74   1l12.33
1t"d              7.2      12.31      8.2       11.01     8.2       8.14       10.2     10,8       11.2     16.46      12.2    884         133       16f30         1382       12.21       14.32       3.12
Inl8.8           60.0      3.38       28.0      13.72               17.62               11 67               15.04               18 13               21.64          218 1      27.28      32.73       31.63
Uin..0me.1a       .0       3.28       1.0       1 140     10.0      11.80      12.0     8.77       16.0     12.21      18.0    24.84       2000      11.8          2841          08       16.02      21.01
Total I P N        444.0   461.63      634.4    480.62    836.8    601.61       700.2    676.08    333.3    136.02      U2.6   1012.03    1300.0   1262.61        1361.40    1627.60    1862.J1    1674.70
Swi.. &v'
A3l .co          s.1      72.00      13.3      70.80     80.0      74.18      103.8    114.71    113.1    182.34    130.3    172 13    167.4    284.73           224.80     246.68     234.33      220.23
C. I,--q          20"e     22.62      23.7      24.83     27.2      34.70      31.3     48.77      30.0     a I.36    41.4     103 18     47.8      114.46       162.4e     170.e6     184.33      263.04
& .PM*          9113      67.72      123.1   63.78       163.0    77.04       132.4   81.01      240.6    03.34       300.6   86.13       316.7    107.67        101.46     129.86    137.33       200.86
mmw.Gb           41.6      .          62.3      .         08.4                 41.8     .          102.2    .          127.6    .          108.1    .                  .           .          .
Ad-.              22.      38.7       2861      36.88      31.    06.36       38.2     83.04      46.6     120.61    64.0      162 *6    66.8       146.41       181.37     300.84     280.00      171.23
E.ur_              261.2    201.31     303.0    201.41     309.3    271.28    447.2    340811   643.6    469.64    661.6    626 8           844.3    662.28        66008      341.8      336.84      867.16                0
D     f .n         43.2     47.20      61.0      41.01     67.0      36.17      62.7     110.14    6.0       116.43     76.0     141.36    213.0    216.34         136.84      163.86     173.16     166.13
Totl Opmlv
E.Paroom         23124.4    248.67    366 7    246.42    426.2    3611.46    608.8    460.76    612.6    674.03       737.6   618.34      1067.6   327.80        187.02    1001.84    1008.80    1023.34
kh_m  ChIwo        669      7.17       32.3      3.03      B6.1      3.22      132.6    6.33        176.7    4.84       201.8   3I02        200.0    4.01          282 33 64.12            74.82     146.96
Tm.ll Emaim        3002    2884.74     383.0    261.60    611.4    30-367    642.7    466.63    788.3    675.91    33.4    676.36           1267.6   831.67        46.166    1068.80    1084.72    1168.16
Nm k 8             143.3    130.08     144.4    233.02    87.4       131.62    63.6      221.46    44.0      l36.68    43.2      33667     42.4      430.84        381.76     467.63     603.03      606.0
WuIOif8           864.6    44.88%      6.6      44.60%    61.6      64.081'    63.3     60.23%    06.2    66.6141   607.3       6201%     64.3      43 74%       4776%       6660%     62.63%       IS 16%
O    _M   r        86.3     6.011    66.6        60.64 %    117 .0   76.061    72.2      ".47%     73.6      74.31,%    76.0     6 04%     11.3      6.66%        61.111%    66.68%     63.40%       1.11I
coward_           33.3     34.84      7.1       7860      2 7       11.62     2.0       67.33     2.8      02.16       1.0     0048       2 3       174 63          3 83      11.00      1009         6.6
__-                                                                                        = _                                                             __ _



CIOTTAGONO PONT POOJECT
POJEOCT COPAETIN RPORT
TA1*E 13 CPA0 ICOICIA AND A0AUCTISONI Of FUNDS FORECAST&
IRFGURES IN CtNaDT TAA IMUJONI
1001132             962183              10123^4              1984130              1090s1              1968131            1937113          166810      0 logolso    1000131     101012
Apee.    Amw       ANN.    AoOed        App.    AGMi         Ap.   AcWd           Aw.    A.Id         Ap.. -    ci..     AtW.    Ac.W          Ace.       A_..        As.
Est         _      b.                   E.                   ft           _       Emt.                E.1                CE. 
_wo                         1430      1006.10   14.44     2301.02    071       131.02    *33       220.13     44.0      171.30   43.1      30002    42 4      43000        3010       40104      600.00        40002
o     _dod                  42.2      41.2.   6 1.0       47.01      01.0     00A.       627       I 10.0     00.0       116.00   71.0    141.06    213 0    286 06       147 46     104 40        30 *        Il 13
0#pi- Adl*-W                          1710      203.2    70.04       312.1    13 02                130.00                 l 00    -        10 021             243.27       40 02      23600      432 0         a40 s
Told baw d c     w .        107.1    301.04   40l.4       MAJ7      410.4    410.37      120.2    407.44      113.0    44.30    1101.1    700.00    266.4    *300 0       1000.12     00.13    113 4.0         111204
am 4wo04.2.-
ft.oW DA Gmde                                  311.0                 342.1               230.3                102.0               112.0
lo  "mi"ZaX                                                                             20                    "a                  l
Loom                        -                   .                    100.0               102.0                104,                100.0
T@4I9,...dbt                          93.20     211.0    14.96      442.7    0.04       312.4    171.9 0     2 2.0    100.30    2020      1636              71s0          117 71     740.09     41427         42044
T      ioumme               30120   s30.30    07.        611*3          .1    424.01  J n00.a    30.42    410.0    014.70   411.0    a" la    266.4   10340.,   1120.83    11701I.22    1031.02               100102
Pnipemd IDA  .c             -                  411.2                 037.0               420.3                310.0               16 0.
e    sow_dwin.              324.2    301.20    210.0      417.10     100.0    40.1.00     0 l0.0    000A.     94.0      413.39    100.0    773.0    13.0   907.73          329.70    1212 22     1274.23       W40 70
Tow                         3242       3       0116a  22.0    407.10  70710   403.00     0230 .     00*2z    414,4    4103.31   30037    11000    1940    94776            320.1    1212.23    1274.22        140 70       'D
Weid 3j....                                                                                                                        000.
7.2      7.73        2        11.22     74        1177       70        12.20      0.7       10.27     1017     11174     10.0     2o0          11.13      2MA1       2611          300 as
T__d mpwimeM                7.2      7.73      7.3        1122      74        1177       70        la."       0.7       3027      763      11.14     170    n20'            11. AS11             21 78         306as3
00.1_    11.31     43.        040        1247    624         422.43    43371      02.4      121.12   027       00.30        10 1   420.0        40.1      207.00      12.31        .31321
To    ewi                   301*        40 _731          61112          1    424n01    600110      01_42    473.3    014.73    411.6  1300.1    260.4   1ow."            1103         103       1030.02       110102



-.'.l leltd  JIlto   Aq p       ,piAp  sa!ilil qtll'  WjaI-OlbtK     I (j1/7
sa!l!ltqeLj luajjn3 Aq PaPA!ip s).ssW ;uaJJn3/j
-sa!i!)!qvl1 uiuJJn3 Aq pap!A!p AJoju2AU! ssal slasse )uaJJnf/j
aIqeAIa?OJ apeJI.UOU  St uotJod  19!3uo9qs s  'a)qeA!i0J  ap&J3 sjuasaJdai  )lnov3   S!4q  Jo  iunW1                                          lv!)Jod  Aluo/1
- ~          ~ -   * _                                _                       _ =_                                        -         _           _                     -_         _         _       _
0*9  999     9*9             9*9~~~~~0   0          "           go 0*9  9             so9 09               Is9        EC 199                Oa 94       to        110s       It 99
91£              11          9*          99 _1 _I -11                                       91         16        3*         0(9        9*         £91        II         991        9£         (9£        1-,_
_91              12    _.1               9£             *1           91         1          *1         109.       .. 9£      9     @    III969t  i s* - al kIas  -t     SOI         9£         &WI        113 _xi9
DI1               19 z       91t9   _WI9*               Is$        9I          9t9          i1      £111         99         see9       991   *11            99      _     - £                 Mt 99  991  W9         r 1
oflu             I gm         W_         __t 00E Om    mm            _gt        tog.      0 ea      ts-g&l      @_        @z@ IS                            *_cv  on  unt                    _^ So_! 
role                _        *tA         te et         M az-s        la        cc-et-       V9       *41 Q         t       W"s          i's        rt        zg  tw V9  621        t's        _K.                              _odIl
to 1*#W          *1 c1       to,99w       91W        09111         991        9 1t        9091    AL1Tw         909       a9_1s                 991£         9L       9"99      9w9        *  1ss         #9 1e                          R_
_'t              Mew _1    Wto           Is -tat       "'tz _t ares  Re|W taWt            t+ mg     Mgtt        V29    .ie    _'s               Ow t       ves         o't 9     Ve Is  6612t           tvt                        gogn anw
e-t wa             we"t@     so "to  *    W"          10 RPM      *-Yire       WLnI   *'U            Uve       t Lou        "'9       9 tv   s-et  tam   _OG          et clo      Wes# _    8.4  _         o             r         .    _
to¢" *set                to to-tw   ag ou         toz INSE           L     o           ofb_ tat  w_ vs_t     JL et        _ * _     O'   *tL W_u         ggW_t      WO                     '" : *M                g             --   0
If 9000          M$ fee      so_ ow e*l91* t-|         t  e       X XTw      _0 |sti     * Po"     Ds &t       Ig to"    1101s    uEm          ma-K .'"              SW""G    ATMU 9r       WI         wnQ                       s_WASS
id ON   W             e SA&  it of  to GI       I     .  .1 W"       so a"       *1         "'AS _,4I               Get      0 fog      Mot        9'" * ts _            *let       Wtt'        O' to               kooil _ R- . I_ 
M te             to_ wt      i tt        kC* OL           _ LO{ *IS                       @t so.  Mel Wt eu .4                                    IV.      ff           too                    U          WI               ___-_ORS O
I             Co W*        a* est     stot         *_            a W *      . so.       P"e                     Is _*101                                                                    S _ *LIS wl @   *   w *t       _
"I                                                                   nS                                                                       lWo             so* *096         *f            'ea     *'s          _      *  ."v_*Y o.  "Ml*t  e@ s S # *OOMOv ___  
a  OS               .09C     co ntg      WIWI        SC-tet        ties        *it, um    IW 1.4    *&-we        *o          e tg     L'ttl    M t   _T0              W'O        I'tte      St_ Ives    Wag              ".v iii__RI o
"'a             SO Se        W  M        W Mt          Go GO    _    to       OR let   _   9        -* OLZ       T SO      VIC           set    it Oft         tot     ot        W&*   -z       t       wtue                    ---s WV Ago-
n ees   wsrt  z _gt     _ nX        ew WluT           .    ZT X z ~~e*      .                    toXw                 to        etW         .,                    I' _. .PIgl w   # W  W*b_ es_            _
-  .                                 *9~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1        9L19
cto-m            to s        S   d       Ot-   _etcu  t"ll        *t-tS       t tt W     a m        M 'te      I Wttw     Wtee    t I g        o It    I*'           *f V     t    ltrg    ot ilt    IV_W                  O_ _o P-MP"po
91 wn            "to6* k   t z  t    Ett   W   et8 I  L  tt 0-'    ri 001%  t ew                    MC    *_t             so it.b  &&lett                                                                  tt_ ge              ok_t e  .4 
ME   1.1         9C19  1                   Rise        "1* 91     *   9      r91e        *9*9    1tt11 to t_t  *091      e*t  1      991 1      999_l        * 01     9191 9    I 99t       1    9 _" t9                                P.-
t"l   {_t  o--'    *9zz        **iiz                 (at                   W___                  _l                    *_t                  ta@W                   t_u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-:Of  0kooR,oM   Of
1919     9199        9111~~ORO   11£"6£                      I 1IRS,£                        999          £         199£   IRS*0                      £1t                                    costI91 
Son_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~3591 9*9  OWl_
n0eto~ la1r4
--) 9         161       1
19                       9           91



- 31 -
BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
Prolect Cmomletion Report
Table 15 - Status of Covenants
Brief Description             I    Section        Compliance          RemarkS
of Covenant                I  Applicable
1                     '       2               3                  4
SLA between Borrower and CPA with          DCA 3.01(b)(i)        Yes       SLA signed on
annual Interest rate no less than 14%.                                     26-9-82 with 14%
interest
Borrower shall approve necessary           DCA 3.02              Yes
tariff adjustment prior to July 1 of
each Fiscal year.
Borrower development and                   DCA 3.03            Partial    Container Dwell
Implementation action plan to reduce                                       time 23 days.
dwell time of cargo to less than 25                                        General Cargo dwell
days by June 30, 1983.                                                     time 30 days in
Dec/93.
Subsidiary loan Agreement Between          DCA 5.01(a)           Yes       26-9-82
Borrower and CPA.
Borrower Approve Project proforma.         DCA 5.01(b)           Yes       03-01-84
Increase in Port tariff at least 25%.    DCA 5.01(c)             Yes
Establishment of PIU.                      DCA 5.01(d)           Yes       04-8-83
CPA obtained vacant possession of all    DCA 5.01(a)        Yes (except   1982
land abutting the Multipurpose Berth                        graveyard
site,                                                       in backup
area
CPA Employ Consultant satisfactory to    PA 2.02                 Yes       Coode & Partners
IDA.                                                                       for MPB & Backup
Facilities: -
MPB:dt .10. 7. 84
Backup dt. 15.6.85
Bangladesh
Consultants Ltd.
for Central & Zonal
Workshop. dt.
29.12.88.
Louis Berger
International Inc.
for Manpower
Planning, Dev. and
Training dt.
12.3.89
M/s UNICONSULT for
Management
Information System
& Container
Operation Manual
dt. 17.9.88.
CPA Maintain records and procedures to  PA 2.05(b-i)             Yes       Progress Report for
record adequate and monitor the                                            each quarter sent
progress of Project.                                                       to IDA.
After completion of the Project CPA        PA 2.05(d)            Yes       Being done.
shall prepare and furnish a report to
IDA.
Carry out an assessment of Manpower        PA 3.04               Yes       In 1984 it was done
requirements in different categories                                       by Enam Committee.
of staff and implement by
Dec. 31, 1983



- 32 -
Re-organize Planning Cell by               PA 3.05               Yes        Independent
January 1, 1983.                                                           Planning department
created in 1984 as
per recommendation
of Enam Committee.
Complete the improvements for the          PA 3.06               Yes        Partially done.
port's electrical network by Dec. 31,
1983.
Develop and implement a revised system   PA 3.07                 Yes        Done as considered
of workshift for staff and for the                                          necessary.
dock workers.
Carry out organizational changes in        PA 3.08(a)             Yes       Done by Enam
the operations and Maintenance                                              Committee in 1984.
decartment.
Place the maintenance of Cargo             PA 3.08(b)            Yes        Done by ENAM
Handling Equipment separately under                                         committee in 1984.
the charge of senior official.
organize a training program for Cargo    PA 3.09(a)               Yes       Done by FINNIDA in
Handling Operations by Nov. 1, 1982.                                        1985-86-87.
Trained needed equipment Operators by    PA 3.09(b)               Yes       Done by FINNIDA in
April 1, 1983.                                                              1985-86-87.
Commence and thereafter Continue the       PA 3.10(a)             Yes       Done from 1982 by
computation of operating efficiency                                         CPA Traffic Dept.
indicators relating to Cargo Handling
rates, dwell time of cargo in Port,
ship turn round time, ship waiting
time and berth occupancy by January 1,
1983.
Realize Cargo Handling rate targets by  PA 3.10(b)                No        Improved but not
June 1, 1984.                                                               achieved the
target.
Before inviting bids for Container         PA 3.11                Yes       Total situation
Equipment for use at the Multipurpose                                       reviewed &
Berths, review prospects of Container                                       identified the
traffic developments and decide,  what                                      equipment
equipment to acquire.                                                       necessary.
Have accounts and financial statements   PA 4.02                  Yes       CPA Accounts dept.
(balance sheets, statement of income                                       maintains it.
and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by
independent auditors.
Take steps to implement a plan of          PA 4.03                Yes       Audit dept. reports
action, to ensure that its internal                                         directly to Member
audit departments reports directly to                                       (Finance) of CPA.
the Chairman of CPA.
To avoid erosion of CPAs revenues          PA 4.04                Yes       Ships charges paid
from vessels due to adverse in                                              in USS.
exchange rate, CPA shall link Port
charges for vessels to a major
convertible currency.



- 33 -
CPA shall from time to time, take or        PA 4.05(a)             Yes        Done by CPA
cause to be taken, all such measures                                         Accounts dept. as
(including, but not limited to                                               considered
adjustments of the structure or levels                                        necessary with the
of its Port tariffs) as shall be                                              approval of GOB.
required to produce, for each of its
fiscal years ending on June 30, funds
from internal sources equivalent to at
least 40% of the annual average of
CPA's capital expenditure incurred or
expected to be incurred.
CPA shall not incur any additional          PA 4.06(a-i)           Yes
debt in any fiscal year unless a
reasonable forecast of CPA's revenue
and expenditures shows that the
projected net revenues of CPA for each
fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least
1.5 times the Projected debt service
requirements in such year on all debt
of CPA, including the debt to be
incurred.
Not make investment in fixed assets         PA 4.06(a-ii)          Yes
other than those included in its
investment plan for the years 1982/83-
86/87 in excess of the aggregate of
S2,000,00 equivalent in any one fiscal
year.



anpgdhes
Chdbtgong Pott Projpct
(Cbdl 1247-80)
Project CoAnpletion Report
Tabl 16 - A. Sbffnp.A
_98_        1981l -   -1982      1983      1984      1585   I-988         1987       t988o- 1989         lo9       1991  -- 1992 -    1993
Prlapp _ _i      _             24.2      31.9 -  _  12       _      _      _       ___                _ _          _             ___                                            57 3
N__Al__7_____   ___7 __                     _   E_        _ _    _1 _                    ___    -         _   _  __ 71                                                    -- - _7 _I1
C_Rpolt _ ___  __ __  __ __ __                      _ _____                        _.__ _                                                                                    7 92 
_________________________                              1 3      151       162       278a       22.8      18.7       17.1      136___4,8            175       15,7       6.5   _1791
Campleio Report                                                              ( _____  __1_-1__           _-i                                                           29        29
ToWIl                          24.2      31.9        63        151       162       270       228 187              171       136         48       175        157       11.4    299



May 1993
B Mis.aDn Data
M__ ont/Y~e      Not of Parson      Days in Field      Members'       P-rtormance Status    Rabng Trend     Type cd F'oblem
_______                                         _a _             _              SPeC.-l)  _Nb/ -- _ --         C,
AnP^'aal    __   __7/81                          5             __          80 EG/EC/F/F
Fa8ow  p2                    7/82    _            1                        11 F                                                      Ettecbvaness Cordamabon
Supeitonl       _            10823is__                                        EG_  1F/EC/                                            No detad design was conk acted
rvison 2 __  __         __83  __                 3    __                   30 E9/EC/F           1__      I                 2      _  Afmm tsiton .ply/sueeIvts3on con   2      not appointed
S    v7sio 3       -         8/83                2      _          _       12 EG/EG __                                     I 1
Sup> n4                       3/84               2                         10 EG/EG                        __              2          _
S on   _5               =    9014                 1             -          _ 1_EG                                                      0   _1  2              _
S     ton e6                 5/85                 1                       1  9 EG           _            2                 3                              _Prociement nd Drbuasmant S_ow
Supevsion 7                  t/85                 1                         8 EG                         2                           Project  ubon F-gra~nm t         incorid
Supevision 8                 3/88                2                O        10 EG/F                       2 =her   comption wib d2 Th                     Ixye
Supwwnriaon 0                0/86  2__-__  -0 IEGJV                                                      -                           Tlw"    Cto c eo- wUbed  jd--sad NOM y-a
Sup'jvion 10                 6/87                1                          7 EG                         3  _                        The cost fo the back uptoitty na doubt d
Supevision          11t 688                      3                         30t EQ/G/F                    3 =                 ___  _   = ongd     Cdbydms_a__ p.ocW ure
s.y.rviail                   11 I/811             I         _____             EG                         3-
Sup.ision 13                  3/P0                1                         3EG                          2
Supion 14         _/ __                          2                        _   EQ/E          _            2            _              A_l map COnW2cI h   been aidad
Supevison IS                  4190            _2            _4 EG/p,____                                 2 __=
Superision 16                11/90t              4                         28 EG/EGEG/Upod               2                           AN civl workaS.ap and consu_int conk  b awerded
i! onl 7, 7__e0/91                        2                        28 _-/O7_                     2                  _         Cyton  D    g      Pro ct Eoention
SuMvisian18         _        /01  _ _      _      3                        45 EGQOtI/ togaO  __         2       _
Supni 19                      2/92         _       3                       30 EQ/P oc. 4Pfog a1          2               _           No Prograta m Damer_alorstbon                                 t
Sup_vbn 20                   9192      -         2                         20 EG______ 2    _                                                        --              -
Compbtein1                   12/92         _      1                         18 EG                    U__n
Com~p tion                    3/12               3                         22 EGf/FRtog.OW                      _               _                      -=_
To4l                    __                                                464                                                                 _
s/EC:Ecenomiat F FFiincl Analst EQ: engine  Up01 OpOat     n Ufticar
Proe: Procwemart Speclimi. Pig: Program Oticw. U: unruwsrhid
b/ 1: no prolmm; 2. modaft problan; 3major probtwm
e/ 1: bnpovMg; 2: stuibkry; 3: d_b,rarng



