Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USiE ONLY
Report No. 3728b-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
May 14, 1982
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise tie disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =        Taka (Tk)
Taka 1               =        Paisa 100
Taka I                        U IS$0.0556
Taka 1,000           =        US$55.556
US$1                          Tk 18.0
US$1,000,000           =       Tk 18,000,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                 =   39.37 inches (in)
1 cubic meter (cu m)        =    1.31 cubic yard (cu yd)
I cubic foot (cu ft)        =    0.028 cubic meters (cu m)
1 kilogram (kg)             -    2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram standard
coal equivalent (kg ce)  =    7,000 kilocalories (kcal)
1 kilovolt (kV)             -    1,000 volts (v)
1 megawatt (MW)             -    1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1,000,000 watts
1 gigawatt hour (Glh)       =    1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONOMYS
ACRE       -        Area Coverage Rural Electrification
BPDB       -        Bangladesh Power Development Board
GOB        -        Government of Bangladesh
IDA        -        International Development Association
KFAED      -        Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LRMC       -        Long-Run Marginal Cost
NRECA      -        National Rural Electric Cooperative Association
PBS        -        Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Electricity Society)
REB        -        Rural Electrification Board
USAID      -        United States Agency for International Development
REB's FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



BANGLADESH           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RURAL ELECTRIFICATI:ON PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.       ENERGY AND THE POWER SECTOR  1............................ . 1
Enaergy ..................      ...          .....................        1
Power Sector - Background ...........I.    . ......................  2
Institutions....                                                  3
External Assistance. . ..                                          4
Existing Facilities. . ..                                         4
Access to Service and Status of Supp:.y.. ..   4
System Losses ...............................................  5
Pattern of Consumption ...........    .    ..........................  6
Forecast of Electricity Consumption .         ..     .     ....    6
BPDB's Development Program . ........................ . . . .........  7
II.      RURAL ELECTRIFICATION . ................. .       ...............  9
Background .         .......... ,.                                 9
System Design      .....  ....... ......... ........... , .  10
Initial Achievements                    ....   11
Future Development             .      ...................  12
III.     EXECUTING AND OPERATING AGENCIES ............................      14
A.   The Rural Electrification Board (REB)
- Role in the Power Sector ,,.,...      .......,.14
- Organization, Staffing and Institution-building
Consultants .................. ..,. ,.. ..........
- Training       ...            .....................    ...   16
- Operation and Procedures  ....... ..........  ...,.,,, 16
- Procurement and Implementationa  ..........                17
- REB Project Evaluation ...,.. ..............,...           .18
- REB Relation to the PBS Systea..                           18
This project was appraised by Messrs. K. Jechoutek (Economist), V. Antonescu
(Power Engineer), M. El-Menshawy (Fin. Analyst), and R. Pradhan (Researcher),
based on information obtained during missions between October, 1980 and
June, 1981.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
B.    Rural Electrification Societies  (PBSs')
- PBS Membership and Members' Meetings   ..... .                     ,  19
- PBS Organizational Structure                       .         .           19
- PBS Staffing . . ..  20
- PBS Responsibilities . . .                                   .    20
- PBS Records of Operations ...,,.                                        21
IV.        THE PROJECT ..................................    22
Genesis        .................                  .................    22
Area Selection ......................................... 22
Project Description ,,,,......,,,,,,,.......  23
Project Cost and Financing .............................                          24
Procurement  ...                                                                  26
Disbursement ........................., ......  26
Onlending   , ................... 26
Risks ..................  27
V.         FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..................                               , ,, 28
REB Financial Condition and Performance .                       ..28
REB Financial Projections .........................                               28
REB Performnar.ce Criteria                     ....30
REB Audit                            ....30
REB System of Accounts  .            .      .........................,,,,...   31
PBS Financial Projections  (Average PBS of Stage II)  . ......    31
PBSs' Desirable Performance and Criteria  , ....                                  31
PB<s' Uniform System of Accounts ....32
PBS Audit                         . . . ............ 32
Bulk Tariff .           ..........................., , . .......   32
PBSs'Retail Tariffs  ...                                                          33
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .                                                                       34
Cost Comparison ....                                                              34
Economic Rate of Return ....                                                      34
Tariffs and Cost of Supply ...                                                    35
Beneficiaries and Affordability                     ....36
VII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS .38
Agreements During Negotiations                     ....38
Conditions of Effectiveness                     ....39
Recommendation                        ....39



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.    Generating Capacities and Maximum Demnand                          40
2.    Historic and Forecast Sales, Generation and Maximum Demand         42
3.    Progress on Implementation of Rural Electrification Program        44
4.    Irrigation Pumps in Existence 1975 - 1980 (Nos.)                   46
5.    Rural Electricity Demand Projection (Calendar Years)               47
6.    Timing and Financing of ACRE Program                               49
7.    Organization Chart (No. 23369)                                     50
8.    Numbers of Sanctioned and Actual Staff                             51
9.    Training Activity Report Up to April 1981                          52
Training Courses Up to April 1981                                  53
10.    Selection Criteria for Areas to be Electrified                     54
11.    Organization Chart of Palli Bidyut Samities (No. 23123)            55
it        "I        it   "i        "t    (No. 23124)           56
12.    PBSs: Record of Operations                                         57
13.    Priority Ranking of PBSs of ACRE Phase-II Project                  58
14.    PBS Areas and Thanas in the Project                                59
15.    Implementation Schedule (Calendar Years)                           60
16.    Project Cost                                                       64
17.    Disbursement Schedule                                              68
18.    Assumptions Used in Financial Projections (REB)                    69
Actual and Forecast Income Statements - FY 1977/78 - 1989/90    71
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets - FY 1977/78 - 1989/90          72
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds              73
Statements - FY 1977/78 - 1989/90.
REB Financing Plan                                                 74
19.    Average Rural Electricity Society (PBS) - Phase II                 75
- Assumptions Used in Financial Projections                        75
- Forecast Income Statements                                       77
- Forecast Balance Sheets                                          78
- Forecast Sources and Application of Funds Statement              79
- Model Formula For Calculation of Subsidy to PBSs                 80
20.    Economic Analysis                                                  82
21.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File          87
MAPS
IBRD 15200R
IBRD 16036






BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONI PROJECT
I. ENERGY AND THE POIER SECTOR
Energy
1.01    Annual energy consumption in Bangladesh has been estimated at
about 10.5 million tons standard coal equivalent 1/ in 1979. Between 70%
and 75% of the country's energy requiremenl:s are met from traditional,
non-commercial sources such as firewood, and vegetable and animal wastes;
commercial energy constitutes the remainder. Besides local natural gas
and a limited hydro power potential, impor:ed crude oil and petroleum
products are the main commercial energy sources. Bangladesh-s per capita
consumption of commercial energy is the eigxhth lowest in the world,
amounting to only 41 kg ce in 1979 2/.  To:al Energy consumption per
capita in Bangladesh including traditional fuels, amounted to some 150 kg
ce in 1979.
1.02    Natural gas is the main known commearcial energy resource of
Bangladesh. There are seven fields, all located in the eastern part of
the country (east of the Brahamaputra/Jamuira River), with aggregate
reserves of at least 260 billion cubic meters (cu m). Although
preliminary exploration indicates that natiral gas may be found in the
west zone, no commercial quantities of gas have so far been identified.
Gas consumption in 1979/80 amounted to aboit 1.2 billion cu m of which 75%
is used for power generation and feedstock for fertilizer production in
the east zone. At an assumed annual consunption growth rate of 10%, the
gas reserves will last for some 33 years, unless new deposits are found.
1.03    Although two of the world's largest rivers, the Ganges and the
Brahmaputra, flow through Bangladesh, the potential for hydroelectric
power is limited as they flow over a flat deltaic area. Only the
Karnafuli river has been developed to an installed capacity of 80 MW, with
a further 50 MW under construction at the Kaptai dam, and expected to be
commissioned in 1983. Two additional units of 50 MW each are planned for
1985. The energy from these projects must be utilized during the monsoon
season to control reservoir levels, and the flow of water from the
reservoir during the dry season is constrained by irrigation requirements.
An overall survey of the hydroelectric potential of the country has not
yet been carried out, and although some additional potential may be
identified, it is not expected to be substantial.
1/   1 kilogram standard coal equivalent (kg ce) = 7,000 kilocalories.
2/   After Nepal (14 kg ce), Burundi (17 kg ce), Ethiopia (20 kg ce), Chad
(24 kg ce), Mali (30 kg ce), Rwanda (30 kg ce) and Upper Volta (29 kg
ce).



-2-
1.04    Good quality coal with a heat value of about 6,200 kcal/kg exists
in northwestern Bangladesh, in the Bogra district, with total reserves
estimated at over 1 billion tons. The deposits are at a depth of 850 to
1,060m under soft water-bearing strata. Their extraction would require
sophisticated and costly soil-freezing techniques, which under present
conditions may make their exploitation uneconomic (it would also require
more than a decade before meaningful quantities could be extracted). The
underground gasification of the coal also does not appear to be
technically feasible. Currently, small quantities of coal are imported
from India. There are some peat deposits in the Faridpur and Khulna
districts.  However, the individual fields are relatively small and lie
under prime agricultural land. For these reasons, the mining of peat
appears to be neither technically practical nor economic.
1.05    Exploration for oil has been going on for more than 15 years, but
so far without positive results. Areas for offshore exploration have been
identified following recommendations of commercial studies by foreign
experts in 1973. At present, the country-s petroleum products requirement
is covered by imports, partly in the form of crude oil, which is refined
in Bangladesh's only refinery, located at Chittagong. 1/ The refinery
which has been in operation since 1968, has a rated processing capacity of
1.5 million tons. Heavy oil and other petroleum products from the
refinery are used for power generation in the western zone where no
alternative local fuel is available.
Power Sector - Background
1.06    Bangladesh is divided into two zones -east and west- by the
Ganges/ Brahmaputra river system. In the past, the annual flooding of
rivers has hindered the construction of road and rail communications as
well as electric power interconnections between the two zones.
1.07    At the time of partition from India in 1947, the installed
capacity in Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) was about 21 MW, of which 12.5
MW was owned by industry, 7 MW by private utilities and the balance by
various small enterprises. The annual per capita consumption of
electricity was only about 0.33 kWh. During the following decade, the
Government took over most of the private utilities and developed
additional power facilities, mainly in the form of local generating
stations. Between 1961 and 1970, major generation stations were
constructed and an integrated transmission system was created in the
eastern zone through the 132 kV transmission lines Kaptai - Chittagong -
Siddhirganj, and Siddhirganj-Sylhet. In 1970, the total installed
capacity was 535 MW which generated 1,106 GWh, satisfying a maximum
1/ Arrangements also exist for some refining in Singapore.



-3-
simultaneous demand of only 233 MW. During the events of 1971 which led
to the independence of Bangladesh, power :-acilities suffered substantial
damage, electricity generation collapsed and maximum demand dropped to 30
MW.
Institutions
1.08    At the policy making level, the tiqo main Government institutions
involved in the power industry are: (i) the Planning Commission, which
coordinates the development of the power sector with that of other sectors
and sanctions all schemes costing more than Tk5 million and (ii) the
Ministry of Power, Flood Control and Water Resources, which supervises
the sector and to which all power generating and distributing institutions
are accountable.
1.09    The Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) was established in
1972, as a statutory Government corporation, to carry out nationwide
responsibilities of generation, transmission and distribution of electric
power besides the responsibility for system planning and development.
BPDB was the sole responsible authority until 1977, when the Rural
Electrification Board (REB) was created to take over from BPDB the
distribution of electricity in rural areas. At present, almost all
consumers are supplied directly by BPDB except for those areas in which
new rural electrification schemes have been completed by REB.
1.10    The establishment of the REB was the first step in GOB's policy to
separate distribution from generation and transmission. REB's mandate is
to embark on an ambitious program to electrify rural areas using the
principle of comprehensive area coverage through cooperatives. During its
short existence, guided by U.S. experience in rural electrification and
with USAID finance, REB has created 13 ccoperatives (Palli Bidyut
Samities-PBSs) of which eight have been partially energized and the other
five are under construction.
1.11    GOB is also considering the creation of independent entities to
take over, from BPDB, power distribution in major urban areas. Thus,
BPDB, in the long run, may only be respornsible for generation and
transmission, while distribution of electricity would be the
responsibility of the rural cooperatives and the urban entities, each in
their respective areas.



-4-
External Assistance
1.12    Bangladesh has been successful in the past in securing foreign
funds for the development of the power sector from various sources. In
1980, foreign loans and grants available for the then ongoing projects of
the sector amounted to about US$430 million equivalent, covering
generation, transmission, distribution, rural electrification, system
rehabilitation, and technical assistance. Since most of this foreign
finance is provided by donors to cover only the foreign costs of BPDB
projects, GOB provides the local cost components.
Existing Facilities
1.13    The two separate (eastern and western) power systems will be
unified in a nationwide grid after the completion of a 230 kV east-west
interconnection by the end of 1982. For the time being, and due to the
unequal distribution of energy resources in the country, all power plants
in the west zone use imported oil while most of the power generation in
the east zone is based on indigenous natural gas and hydro power. Hence,
the average financial fuel cost per unit generated in the west zone is
nearly Tkl.7/kWh, while it is only TkO.10/kWh (based on market price of
natural gas for power generation) in the east zone, with an average of
TkO.52/kWh for all BPDB's power generation in 1980/81. This average fuel
cost per kWh is expected to decrease after the completion of the east-west
interconnection to TkO.42/kWh in FY1982/83 and to TkO.37/kWh in FY1983/84.
1.14    The two existing separate systems cover all four of the country's
administrative divisions which are subdivided into 19 districts. In
FY1980/81, BPDB's installed capacity, (including isolated systems)
totalled 776 MW, 519 MW (67%) in the east zone and 257 MW (33%) in the
west zone (Annex 1). In addition, there is some 188 MW of captive power,
owned by different industries, among which the largest are the steam
stations at the paper mills in Khulna (24 MW) and Chittagong (28.5 MW),
the steam station at the fertilizer plant in Fenchuganj (36 MW), the
combustion turbine station at the fertilizer plant in Ghorasal, and a
combustion turbine station with two 15 MW units at the new fertilizer
plant in Ashuganj.
Access to Service and Status of Supply
1.15    Total energy generated by BPDB's power plants in FY1979/80 was
2317 GWh, 1729 GWh (75%) in the east zone and 588 GWh (25%) in the west
zone. At the end of FY1979/80, the total number of consumers supplied by
BPDB reached some 522,000, still very low in relation to total population
of about 90 million. Only 1,596 out of a total of 65,000 villages have
been electrified, indicating that about 98% of the population in rural
areas (about 60 million) do not have access to electricity. Because of
this, the per capita consumption was only 16 kWh in 1979/80.



-5-
1.16    Of the installed capacity of 736 MW in 1980, only about 626 MW
(85%) were the maximum potentially available at peak (426 MW in the east
zone and 200 MW in the west zone). However, unreliability of plant
frequently reduces this availability. Maximum demands actually supplied
in 1980 was 338 MW in the east zone and 124 MW in the west zone. Although
during 1980, the installed capacity in t:he west zone was increased by
about 76 MW of gas turbines which are operated as base load units, the
available capacity in the zone is still critical. Two main factors are
expected to improve capacity availabilit:y in both zones. The first is the
completion of the east- west interconnection which will permit that only
gas fired steam units should be operated as base load units. The second
is BPDB's power stations rehabilitation program, recommended in a study
developed in 1980 with ADB finance, for which GOB has already made
arrangements to secure the finance requ-ired for implementation.
1.17    At present, the power system is suffering from frequent supply
interruptions, and voltages as well as frequency are sometimes low and
fluctuating. One main reason for unrelLability of supply, in addition to
insufficiency of generating capacity in the west zone, is the inadequacy
of BPDB-s distribution facilities, especially in major urban areas, where
lines are too long and overloaded and thiere is a great need for additional
substation capacity.  To improve this situation, the distribution networks
in major urban areas are being rehabilitated and extended with assistance
from external agencies such as IDA/OPEC (Greater Khulna Power Distribution
Project, Credit 934-BD), Asian Development Bank (Greater Chittagong Power
Distribution Project) and the United Kingdom (Greater Dacca Power
Distribution Project).
System Losses
1.18    For the past few years, BPDB system losses including station
consumption have been over 35%, which is abnormally high. According to
BPDB's estimates, these losses which reached about 40% in fiscal year
1980, consisted of some 26% technical losses, with the rest being
attributed to unpaid consumption. It is also estimated that losses in
urban distribution networks (33 kV and lower voltage) are about 18% of
total generation. These are high because of overloaded facilities. The
unpaid consumption is due to pilferage, under-billing, and defective
metering. The lack of spare parts, materials, and trained personnel to
take care of these problems is expected to be partially solved through the
ongoing BPDB system rehabilitation program which provides for required
spare parts, the ADB financial training program which has been agreed upon
with the two power utilities in Thailand for training BPDB's staff in
Thailand and Bangladesh till the end of 1984, and the training program for
BPDB expected to be financed by the Federal Republic of Germany. As
required by IDA, GOB and BPDB submitted, before negotiations of the
proposed Ashuganj Thermal Power Project, a satisfactory plan of specific



-6-
measures designed to gradually reduce the system losses to about 23% in
FY85, and to about 20% in FY90.
Pattern of Consumption
1.19    After the disruption caused by independence and the surge in oil
prices in 1974, the consumption of electricity has increased at an average
annual rate of about 13.2% between 1976 and 1981 (11.2% in the east zone
and 20.8% in the west zone). The rate of growth which was 13.3% in 1979
declined to only 3.9% in FY1980 due to supply constraints. Preliminary
figures for FY1981 indicate a rate of growth of about 21% (Annex 2).
1.20    The electricity consumption pattern (as a percentage of total
consumption) in FY1974 and FY1980 was as follows:
FY1974      FY1980
Agriculture                      0.3          2.7
Industry                        68.3         63.5
Commercial                       8.9         14.0
Domestic                        20.4         16.2
Others                           2.1          3.6
100.0       100.0
While industrial consumption, as the largest single category, remained
relatively unchanged, the most rapidly growing category was agriculture
which consumed about 15 times more in 1980 than in 1974. Domestic
consumers accounted for 20.4% of total consumption in 1974 but their share
has declined to 16.2 % in 1980 (Annex 2). Electricity consumption in
rural areas is less than 7% of total BPDB sales, and only 2% of the
population have access to electricity supply.
Forecast of Electricity Consumption
1.21    BPDB has based its power demand projections on the extrapolation
of recent historic trends, adjusted to take account of specific
development projects in the various sectors of the economy, and
supplemented by end-use analysis and GDP linear regression. For the
period 1980-1990, sales of electricity are expected to increase from 1,462
GWh to 6,318 GWh, at an annual average rate of 15.8% (Annex 2).
Considering that, by 1990, REB-s rural electric cooperatives are expected
to account for 16% of BPDB's total sales, the following is a comparison
between the actual pattern of electricity consumption in 1980 and the
forecast for 1990 (as a percentage of total sales).



-7-
1980            1990
BPDB    BPDB    REB    Total
Sales   Sales   SalE!s  Sales
Agriculture           2.7      3.0    3.4      6.4
Industry             63.5    58.0    4.1    62.1
Commercial           14.0    11.0    1.5    12.5
Domestic             16.2    11.0    7.0    18.0
Others                3.6      1.0     -       1.0
REB                    -      16.0     -        -
100.0   100.0   16.0  100
This comparison reflects the expected itipact of the rural electrification
program on the pattern of electricity consumption due to the expected
growth in rural consumption to about 19,' of the total sales in 1990 as
compared to about 7% in 1980.
BPDB-s Development Program
1.22    BPDB-s program for power development is based on the
UNDP-financed, ADB-administered Bangladesh Energy Study, undertaken in
Bangladesh in 1975/76 by a consortium o:- foreign consultants.1/ The major
objectives of the study were: (i) to as:,ess the prospects of utilizing
natural gas for meeting internal needs, and to determine the foreign
exchange-earning potential of natural gas; (ii) to analyze various
interrelated energy supply projects and determine their relevance and
priority for implementation up to the e:d of the century; and (iii) to
recommend an immediate investment program for energy-related projects in
the period up to 1985. The study conclu-ded that the presently known
reserves of gas should be used to meet Lnternal requirements of energy and
fertilizer production only. Fertilizer should be used locally and
exported only if the domestic demand is lower than the total production.
Liquefaction of natural gas for export or production of methanol was not
recommended for immediate implementatioa. The study recommended early
construction of more gas transmission pipelines, and the expansion of gas
distribution facilities to minimize imports of oil. A major
recommendation of the Energy Study related to the power system was the
early consideration of the East-West transmission interconnector; this
project is under construction and expected to be completed by the end of
1982.
1/   Montreal Engineering, Canada; Meta Systems, USA; Snamprogetti Spa,
Italy; and Carlo Lotti Associates, Italy.



-8-
1.23    BPDB's investment program until 1990 is based on the Energy Study
up to 1985 and the requirements of system expansion to meet the expected
demand thereafter. It consists of a number of ongoing projects which
include an additional hydroelectric unit at Kaptai (50 MW), an oil/natural
gas steam unit at Chittagong (60 MW), both in the east zone, and a large
(110 MW) oil/gas fired steam unit at Khulna in the west zone. 1/ These
units, totalling 220 MW, are expected to be commissioned in FYT1982/83.
Although a final decision has not been taken because of questions of
optimality, initial steps are now being taken by BPDB to install a 90 MW
combined cycle unit (combustion turbine/steam turbine) at Ashuganj with
foreign assistance, which is expected to be commissioned in FY1983/84.
Ongoing transmission projects apart from the East-West Interconnector
include the construction of about 500 km of 132 kV overhead lines to make
power available to isolated areas, especially in the west zone. The major
ongoing distribution improvement projects are Greater Dacca Power
Distribution, Greater Chittagong Power Distribution and Greater Khulna
Power Distribution; for them about US$100 million are provided by UK, ADB
and IDA mainly to cover the foreign cost.
1.24    The capacity and energy balances resulting from the investment
program are presented in Annexes 1 and 2. Until the end of 1982, when the
east-west interconnecting transmission line is expected to be
commissioned, the power supply in the western zone will be precarious,
depending on the availability of the 60 MW unit in Khulna, the only
existing base load unit in the western zone. The capacity margin in the
eastern zone, only 10% in 1981/82, will be allowed to rise to cover the
margin for the total interconnected system, reaching 32% in 1985/86 and
decreasing to 18% by the end of the decade. The addition of 510 MW at
Ashuganj and Ghorasal in 1985 and 1986 is therefore critical for an
adequate supply.
1/ No natural gas is available in the west at this point.



-9-
II. RURAL ELECTR[IFICATION
Background
2.01    The primary objectives of the Govarnment of Bangladesh in
embarking on a comprehensive program of rural electrification are twofold.
The first objective is the replacement of the use of costly alternative
energy sources for lighting, irrigation pumping, and village industry
(mainly imported petroleum products) by electricity generated to an
increasing degree from domestic natural gas. The second objective is the
creation of additional employment opportunities in rural areas through
multiple cropping and new small industries encouraged by more economical
energy for irrigation and motive power, so as to ease the population
pressure on the land. Other objectives include the improvement of quality
of life in rural areas to reduce migration to urban areas, and the
provision of infrastructure in hitherto less developed areas of the
country.
2.02    Present electricity demand in Bangladesh is predominantly
industrial, accounting for about 64% of total consumption. The pattern of
demand in rural areas, however, is expected to be quite different. When a
rural area approaches its potential load, about 50% of electricity
consumption is likely to be accounted for by domestic and commercial
lighting, about 20% by irrigation pumping, and the remaining 30% by small
and medium industry. As the present extent of rural electrification in
Bangladesh is insignificant and restricted to the outskirts of urban and
township areas, these figures are the be6t estimates of the future
development, based on surveys, forecasts, and limited experience with
initial consumer response in new areas.
2.03    The expected rural demand pattern is partly a function of the
approach to rural electrification chosen by the Government. The concept
is one of "Area Coverage Rural Electrification" (ACRE), involving a design
of the basic distribution system that could cater to a maximum number of
potential consumers, up to the relative saturation of an area. The
philosophy behind this approach is to provide a sound backbone system that
can bear a rapid increase in the density of domestic and productive
consumer connections. This rapid growth is expected to take place as a
result of intensive load promotion campaLgns by local committees that are
later formed into rural electric cooperatives. Early results are
encouraging (para. 2.11).
2.04    The concept relies heavily on the development of autonomous
member-owned distribution cooperatives. Although this approach is new for
Bangladesh, initial response of the population has been good, and the



-10-
formation of cooperatives is progressing smoothly. The immediate model
for the approach is rural electrification in the Philippines where, as in
Bangladesh, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), using
technical assistance by the US National Rural Electric Cooperatives
Association (NRECA), has taken the lead in financing the setting up of
rural distribution systems. The Philippine model has been modified to
suit local circumstances, particularly in careful institution-building.
For a long time to come, the new cooperatives will be subject to rigorous
control and supervision by REB, the construction and lending authority.
The systems designed to ensure orderly operations are satisfactory and
operating well.
System Design
2.05    Bangladesh, like most developing countries where early
electrification has been restricted to the most populated and concentrated
load areas, now has a predominance of three-phase systems in its
distribution networks. As electrification is being extended to the less
densely populated and lower- income rural areas, possible means of keeping
down the cost of service, while continuing to assure both adequate and
reliable service to the consumers, have been examined.
2.06    Under phase I (financed by USAID) of the rural electrification
program, a techno-economic analysis has been carried out by NRECA to
select a distribution system which would be the most suitable for rural
electrification in Bangladesh. The least-cost solution was evaluated to
be a combination of three-phase and single-phase distribution, for the
supply of typical consumers in rural areas, like deep and shallow
tubewells and low-lift pumps for irrigation, bazaars, residential users
and small industries. Areas with lower concentrations of deep tubewells
and industrial loads show greater savings with predominantly single-phase
lines beyond the basic feeder system.
2.07    The system comprises 11 kV three-phase primary main circuits, with
three-phase and single-phase branch circuits. Three-phase circuits
consist of three primary conductors and one multiple grounded neutral
conductor, and single-phase circuits consist of one primary conductor and
one neutral conductor. Distribution transformers would generally be
single-phase units serving single-phase 230 volt secondary circuits.
Primary circuits will be extended closer to load centers, and distribution
transformers will be relatively smaller in size and more numerous than in
three-phase systems. The amount of three-phase primary circuit extension,
and the number of three-phase distribution substations, will be determined
by large motor requirements located within reasonable reach of established
three-phase circuit facilities, and by the fact that single-phase motor
sizes are generally restricted to 7.5 HP and below. Given the shortage of
suitable pole material in Bangladesh, imported wood poles have been found
to be the least-cost solution for the quality required under rural



-11-
Bangladesh conditions. A domestic wood pole industry is being developed,
mainly to supply smaller, low-voltage poles.
2.08    The distribution system design prevalent in the rural areas of
Bangladesh so far, consists of three-phaEe, 11 kV primary circuits
supplying four-wire, three-phase, 400/23C volts secondary circuits through
three-phase distribution transformers. T'hree-phase secondary circuits
extend from present relatively large trarnsformers for considerable
distances to the different loads. Long, heavy-conductor secondary circuit
extensions up to 2 km are commonly observed in the rural areas of the
country. Under present distribution system design, all motor loads are
served by three-phase supply. Lighting loads are generally served by a
two-wire, 230 volt single-phase service. The new design standards
introduced by REB will be a significant improvement over the existing ones
under circumstances prevailing in rural l,angladesh.
2.09    The source of power for REB's networks will be 33/11 kV and 66/11
kV substations, which ultimately will be owned by the cooperatives. Due
to variations in 33 kV subtransmission voltage, regulation is provided by
three single-phase feeder voltage regulators of suitable capacity on the
11 kV bus at each substation. With regard to line protection, the design
provides for automatic sectionalizing which would be restricted to the
circuits accessible by vehicle to minimize the number of sophisticated
mechanical devices, maintain large enough fuse sizes, and bring
interruption repairs closer to main circuits. The routing of most main
primary circuits will be along improved roads but some branch circuit
construction will take place where vehicLe or boat accessibility is
difficult. In the initial stage, lines ivill not extend much further than
8 km from established roads or navigable water ways. Where possible,
low-voltage circuit poles would also be used for telecommunications lines.
Initial Achievements
2.10    As of December 1981, nine cooperatives had been connected to the
grid and initial small numbers of consumers have been supplied in each.
Progress reporting under the USAID-financed first stage of the ACRE
program indicates that the program is essentially on target. After
starting construction in 1979, about 2,200 miles of primary and secondary
line and 16 substations had been fully constructed by September, 1981, and
a further five substations were close to completion (Annex 3). While this
represents a slight delay of about 3-6 months as compared to original
targets, it is mainly due to rigorous enforcement of quality standards to
train contractors staff. No significant further delays are expected in
the ongoing construction program.
2.11    While it is too early to judge the progress of connection
achievement (most cooperatives have been energized only a few months), the
response of potential consumers is encouraging. Applications for



-12-
cooperative membership and payments of membership fees exceed
expectations. In particular, demand for irrigation pump connections is
more buoyant than expected. Actual connection of consumers, however, has
been slower than anticipated. Only about two thirds of the 10,000
connections originally planned by May, 1981, had been achieved at that
time. This is partly a function of the somewhat delayed construction
schedule, and partly due to the delay in the provison of complementary
inputs such as electric pumps and motors, credit facilities for
power-using equipment and housewiring, and agricultural and industrial
development advice.
2.12    Measures are being taken to remedy these shortfalls through the
training program, the encouragement of better distribution of pumps and
motors, and improvement of coordination. USAID has provided funds for the
import and distribution of electric pumps and motors under their Second
Rural Electrification Project to ease the bottleneck, and is coordinating
a Rural Industries Development Project with electrification. This is
expected to improve marketing and financing of power-using equipment. REB
is testing schemes to provide consumer credit for housewiring and,
possibly, pumps. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOB
and REB, that working-level coordination of planning and implementation
between the power and other sectors, and within the power sector will be
improved in a manner satisfactory to IDA. This would include
strengthening of existing consultation procedures between BPDB, REB, BADC,
and banks and other agencies involved in rural electrification. To this
end, GOB will submit to IDA, by December 31, 1982, a program for
coordination improvement for review, and will implement it thereafter.
Future Development
2.13    The initial 13 cooperative areas under construction in the first
stage of the ACRE program contain about nine million people in about 1.6
million households. The total second stage, including the proposed
project, will cover an additional population of about 15 million, of which
up to 20% are expected to receive electric service by 1988. The market
potential exists, as over 40% of households in the existing cooperatives
have signed up for connections, exceeding expectations. Similarly,
irrigation pumping holds a large potential for electrification. The
second Five-Year Plan calls for a doubling of foodgrain production by 1985
as the basis for development: irrigated area is to be increased from 3.2
million acres in 1978 to 7.2 million acres in 1985, requiring a rapid
increase in the number of pumps. In 1980, about 96% of the existing
70,000 tubewells and low-lift pumps were diesel-driven, indicating a large
replacement potential, considering cost savings possible with electric
pumps. (Annex 4).
2.14   Based on the large untapped demand estimate, the demand projections
prepared by REB are dependent on the present and planned project



-13-
implementation capacity of REB and local contractors. Starting from a
negligible present base, peak demand and energy consumption in the rural
system are expected to double every year between 1983 and 1985; after
1985, growth will taper to an annual rate of 16% by 1990 (Annex 5). The
aim is to cover most parts of the country (with the exception of thinly
populated areas) with 84 cooperatives by th(t early 1990's (Annex 6).
Present estimates put the cost of the total program at Tk 20.1 billion
(US$1.1 billion) in current prices, of which about Tk 14.4 billion (US$800
million) will be the foreign exchange component.
2.15    Following its first contribution of US$ 70 million to finance the
implementation of 13 areas of Stage I, USAI]) has already approved a second
contribution of about US$50 million. This :'und will finance goods and
services needed to implement four cooperatives in Stage II and required
system expansions in the first 13. US$13 mLllion out of USAID's new
contribution will be used to cover the cost of extending the NRECA
consulting service till the completion of Stage II. The second firm
commitment to the plan is that of the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (KFAED) which is going to provide US$29.6 to finance the
implementation of eight cooperatives. The proposed project (7 areas) and
possible assistance from the Government of Finland (1 area) would complete
financing of Stage II. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has expressed
interest in assisting with future stages of the program.
2.16    Although no adverse system effects of rural electrification have
yet been identified, several potential problems are being examined in
anticipation. First, a large part of rural consumption will take place
at the peak time of the supplying system. Measures such as load
management and peak-reducing tariff structures are being studied to
prevent excessive demand at peak, particularly in irrigation and industry.
Second, the large share of motive power may decrease the system power
factor if capacitors or high-power-factor motors are not used. An
appropriate clause exists in all consumer contracts, but is not
consistently enforced in the case of irrigation pumping. Third, technical
losses and theft in the rural distribution system need to be kept under
control if heavy PBS financial losses are to be avoided. During
negotiations, REB agreed to submit to IDA, by October 31, 1982, a detailed
report on measures taken and to be taken with respect to these issues.
Appropriate monitoring indicators will be included in the project
reporting requirements.



-14-
III.   EXECUTING AND OPERATING AGENCIES
(A) THE RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD (REB)
Role in the Power Sector
3.01    Until 1977, the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) was the
sole institution responsible for generation, transmission, and
distribution of electric power in Bangladesh. On October 29, 1977, the
Rural Electrification Board (REB) was created by Presidential Ordinance.
3.02    The main objectives of REB are to establish primary and secondary
electricity distribution systems in the rural areas of Bangladesh through
the following actions:
(i)  taking over from BPDB any existing electric systems below
33 kV (including 33/11 kV substations) in rural areas;
(ii) conducting surveys and feasibility studies and preparing
rural electrification schemes;
(iii) arranging the finance of the rural electrification schemes
and carrying out their execution;
(iv) organizing the prospective consumers in cooperatives (Palli
Bidyut Samities-PBSs), and prescribing their by-laws;
(v)  controlling and assisting the PBSs through prescribing
standards for their technical and administrative work,
approving their tariffs, and taking measures for their
development; and
(vi) handing over to the PBSs the completed schemes for operation
and management and lending their total cost to PBSs.
Organization, Staffing and Institution-building Consultants
3.03    The REB Board of Directors consists of (i) a chairman, appointed
by the Government; (ii) three full-time members,l/ appointed by the
Government; and (iii) four part-time members, representing the BPDB, the
1/ "Member (Engineering)", "Member (Finance)", and "Member (PBS and
Training)".



-15-
Bangladesh Agriculture Development Corporation, the Small Cottage
Industries Corporation, and the Integrated Rural Development Program. The
organizational structure (Annex 7) is appropriate for REB activities and
objectives, and provides future flexibilit:y for any relevant operation or
field-work expansion. Under REB's Chairman, four immediate subordinates
(3 Members and the Secretary) are respons:Lble for the main activities of
the organization. Each of these main responsibilities is properly divided
into identified tasks which are assigned 1:o smaller operating units.
3.04    On January 1, 1978, REB, with the finance and approval of USAID,
signed an agreement with the National Rural Electric Cooperative
Association (NRECA) of Washington, D. C., to provide institution-building
and technical consulting services to both REB and PBSs. The involvement
of the consultant is helping REB and PBSs to set up most of their working
systems. The following are among those that have been already completed:
(i)  Accounting system and accounting manual for REB.
(ii)  Uniform accounting system and an accounting manual for PBSs.
(iii)  Organizational structure, jo' descriptions, and staffing for
REB and PBSs.
(iv) Meter-reading, billing and callection systems for PBSs.
(v)  Stores system and the stores control manual for REB and PBSs.
(vi) Formal training schemes for REB and PBS staff.
(vii) Retail tariff calculation system for the PBSs which have been
energized.
These systems are satisfactory, and the initial results of
application are encouraging.
3.05    The consultants- resident team in Bangladesh is also supervising
the implementation of these systems, participating in training
arrangements and sharing actively in development of the rural
electrification schemes. The first NRECA consulting services agreement is
valid until January 1984, by which time Stage II of the Rural
Electrification program will still be under implementation. Considering
the crucial role of the foreign consultant in institution-building, system
planning and implementation, efficient foreign assistance will remain
indispensable until the completion of Stage II. USAID, therefore, as part
of its finance of US$50 million for Stage II, has decided to allocate
US$13 million to extend NRECA consulting services. This arrangement will
cover satisfactorily all technical assistance needs of REB.



-16-
3.06 REB has made good progress in recruiting the necessary staff at all
levels (Annex 8). Table 3.1 indicates the present employment situation of
REB at different levels of responsibility. REB is making efforts to fill
the remaining vacancies, particularly those for professional staff, a
vital element for field-work. The sanctioned number of engineers and
assistant engineers at all levels is 100, of which 91 have been already
recruited.
Table 3.1: REB Staff
Sanctioned    Actual    Vacancies
(Number)    (Number)       ) N) (x)
Top Management               17           15       2      11
Middle Management            43           36       7      16
Professionals               118          103      15      13
Support-Staff               326         271       55      19
Total                   504          425       79      16
Training
3.07    The REB training Program is designed to meet the requirements of
eligible personnel within REB, PBSs, and the local construction and
consulting firms which are implementing the rural electrification program.
Between July, 1978, and April, 1981, REB has trained 2,538 persons of
various skills and categories in 148 training courses of 28 different
types which have been designed and supervised by the NRECA consulting team
(Annex 9). REB's training record to date and its policy to develop
necessary skills within other institutions involved in the rural
electrification program, show that it maintains a training plan which is
effective, satisfactory, and that has all prospects of continuity.
Operation and Procedures
3.08    REB's project area selection criteria are based on relevant
infrastructure features such as availability of power supply, roads and
communications, as well as on population, irrigation requirements, and the
political aspect of equal distribution among regions. Intensive field
data collection is carried out to assess these criteria and to obtain
enough information to prepare the feasibility study of a project (Annex
10).
3.09    For a feasibility study of a selected project (consisting of a
number of self-contained areas), REB prepares a Project Proforma
explaining the targets, physical facilities, financing, and cost/benefit



-17-
analysis. The Project Proforma is then submitted to the Planning
Commission for examination by the Project Evaluation Committee.
Thereafter, discussions on the proposal take place in a meeting where the
representatives of the concerned Minister4 es and Agencies take part. A
revised Project Proforma is submitted for final approval to the National
Economic Council headed by the President.
3.10    On approval of the project, REB proceeds to establish cooperative
societies (PBSs) in the project area. Wii:hin every PBS area, information
meetings are held at the thana and village group levels where PBSs'
potential directors are selected from local citizens (excluding political
office-holders), subject to the approval of the REB Board of Directors.
Following their nomination, the PBSs' diriectors submit to REB an
application, along with the proposed by-laws, for registration of the
newly formed PBS. After registration, sign-up campaigns are organized by
REB to promote PBS membership among prospective electricity consumers who
sign membership applications and pay a membership fee of Tk5.00. As of
April 30, 1981, all the 13 PBSs of Phase I have been legitimately
established with a total bonafide membership of about 600,000.
Procurement and Implementation
3.11    The technical specifications of materials and equipment have been
prepared by REB within the framework of a master "Rural Electrification
Planning Study" and reviewed by NRECA advisers who assist also in
preparing tender documents and procurement procedures. REB purchases all
construction and support equipment, including housewiring materials and
other ancillary connection and maintenance equipment, and provides central
and regional storage of materials.
3.12    For the construction works, REB selects a local consulting firm
for every future PBS area to carry out the engineering services and to be
responsible for the design, the construction plan, specification, bidding
documents and procurement, and construction supervision. All the tasks
and roles of the local consulting firms are reviewed and approved by REB
staff assisted by the NRECA resident team. Local contractors construct
the primary and the secondary distribution systems under supervision of
REB regional staff and the local design consultants. REB assists the
local contractors by providing them with the construction equipment and by
training their and the local consultants' technical personnel. The
objective is to develop a stock of qualified contracting and consulting
firms specialized in distribution work. Much of this objective has been
achieved already. The number of competent firms involved in REB work now
is adequate for the present scope of the electrification program.



-18-
REB Project Evaluation
3.13    REB has set up an evaluation cell to assess the impact of
completed rural electrification projects on the rural community. The
evaluation cell has started its function in the few rural areas which have
been electrified since 1980. An agreement with the Dacca University
Institute of Statistical Research and Training to carry out a
comprehensive and long-term evaluation of rural electrification projects
in Bangladesh has been approved by USAID and is satisfactory.
REB Relation to the PBS System
3.14    The PBS system is a cooperative system consisting of local
autonomous institutions for electricity distribution in the rural areas,
and controlled by REB as the central agency responsible for the nationwide
rural electrification program, system operation, and distribution in these
areas. Stemming from that concept, statutory means of control have been
given to REB over the PBSs' formation and operation which are summarized
in paras 3.02(iv)-(vi).
3.15    REB is exercising all these means of control over the PBSs which
already have been established; it has handed over completed area schemes
to five PBSs, is supervising their operation, helping in the
implementation of the standard systems it developed for them, and training
their staff. A "Rate Cell" has been created in REB for the study of PBS
tariffs.
3.16    The financial relation between REB and the PBS is basically
formulated according to a "standard loan agreement" including terms and
conditions acceptable to different donors for the total cost of the
project which is handed over to the PBS after being carried out by REB.
The debt is secured by a mortgage. Besides lending the project initial
cost to PBS, REB is also making available as loans the cash amounts needed
to meet the PBSs' working capital requirements, and will be involved in
financing the PBSs' major system expansions in future.



-19-
(B) RURAL ELECTRIFICKTION SOCIETIES
(Palli Bidyut Samities - "PBS")
PBS Membership and Members' Meetings
3.17    Any resident in a PBS area, whether a person or an organization,
may become a member of a PBS, either during the sign-up stage or
thereafter, by applying formally and being accepted by the Board of
Directors; provided that, in both cases, a membership fee of Tk5.00 should
be paid by the prospective member. PBS's members, in each annual meeting,
may examine the Board of Directors Annual Report, approve new projects or
business, and elect one third of the Board of Directors. Individuals, as
well as corporate entities and groups of individuals, can become members.
PBS Organizational Structure
3.18    The Board of Directors consists of 10-15 members elected by the
annual Members' Meeting on a region-wise representation basis.
Eligibility to become or to remain a Director includes being a bonafide
member of PBS, and being a resident of the area. The Board of Directors
exercises - in monthly meetings - all the powers to formulate and adopt
policies and plans, promulgates rules andl regulations for the management,
and conducts all the business of the organization except that which is
reserved for REB or the Members' Meetings.
3.19    With the assistance of the NRECA consulting team, REB has
developed a typical organizational structure for PBSs which includes
description of main functions of every division and a position description
and job specification for every post. Two samples of organizational
charts (Annex 11) have been set up as flexible models to meet different
levels of activity. The General Manager - appointed by the Board of
Directors with approval of REB - is the top executive of a PBS and is
accountable to the Board of Directors. Four main departments, each headed
by an Assistant General Manager, are responsible for extension and member
service, finance, construction and maintenance, and general
administration. These main departments and their functional operating
units provide for a satisfactory organizational structure to cope with
main and subsidiary activities of PBSs.



-20-
PBS Staffing
3.20    The staffing situation in the five PBSs which have been energized
by 4/30/1981 is shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: PBS Staffing
Start-up       Sanctioned      Actual         Vacancies
PBS               Date             No.         No.    %       No.    %
Dacca I         6/9/1980           74          53      72     21      28
Jessore II      2/2/1981           61          42      69     19      31
Rajshahi I      3/14/1981          63          41     65      22     35
Pabna III       4/14/1981          60          37     62      23      38
Comilla I       1/1/1981           62          45     73      17     27
3.21    About 50% of the vacancies in these PBSs represent a shortage in
one particular area of skill that includes linemen, assistant linemen and
line supervision. Due to this fact, REB is devoting serious and
continuous training efforts to overcome this shortage. Up to the end of
April 1981, 213 of PBSs  personnel and 263 of construction firms
personnel had attended linemen training courses. Other vacancies are in
less crucial disciplines for which gradual recruitment will be sufficient.
For the remaining 8 PBSs of Phase I, considerable numbers of staff have
already been recruited to undergo the orientation and training process
before these PBSs start their operation. It is expected that the vigorous
acceleration of the linemen training programs now pursued by REB will
eliminate the bottleneck in time for smooth implementation of Phase II.
PBS Responsibilities
3.22    PBSs do not have a significant role during the early stages of
project preparation and implementation; their actual responsibilities
start after the scheme is completed and handed over to them. The main
objective of a PBS is to supply its members and other electricity
consumers with electric power needed mainly for household, industrial and
agricultural use. To achieve this objective, the PBS is responsible for
the following functions, most of which are subject to REB control through
standard procedures and regulations:
(i)   to initiate and implement local distribution system
expansion with financial and technical assistance
of REB;
(ii)   to purchase electric power from the BPDB grid;



-21-
(iii)   to transmit and distribute electric power and to
carry out consumer connections;
(iv)   to maintain and operate transmission and distribution
facilities;
(v)   to carry out the commercial activities of meter-reading,
billing and collection;
(vi)   to set its own tariff, subject to the approval of REB; and
(vii)   to provide technical and financial assistance to electricity
consumers for wiring their premises and for acquiring and
installing the electrical apfliances.
3.23    The PBSs which have started their work are carrying out the
activities of system operation, consumer connections, meter-reading,
billing and collection satisfactorily.  They also provide technical
assistance to irrigation pump owners and help domestic consumers to wire
their premises by making available the rec[uired materials and labor.
These PBSs, with their own manpower, are carrying out their system
expansion and maintenance for which REB is providing necessary materials,
equipment, and finance. REB approval of this expansion requires the
assurance of a minimum per mile income of any distribution line to be
installed (Tk 12,000 or US$667 per mile per year for single-phase lines,
and Tk 18,000 or US$1,000 for three-phase lines). Procurement of
materials for expansion and maintenance iE handled by REB. PBSs maintain
their own storage facilities at their headquarters that are being newly
erected in each PBS area.
PBSs - Record of Operations
3.24    Dacca I PBS was the first PBS to start operation in June 1980,
while eight otter PBSs have been energized by December 1981. The
available data%indicate (Annex 12) that a:Ll activities are carried out
satisfactorily, except for the average ral:e of completing the consumers
connections (262 connections per month per PBS) if compared with the
average number of PBS's members (49200 memibers). Billing and collection
of revenue are satisfactory for this early stage of operation: 95% of
consumers were billed on time, and 83% of bill payments were received in
due time.  The average revenue achieved i, comparable to BPDB averages.
Equipment, vehicles and maintenance staff are available for operation and
maintenance. To alleviate the shortage of linemen, REB is carrying out a
continious training plan through four types of training courses for PBSs.



-22-
IV. THE PROJECT
Genesis
4.01    In May/June, 1980, an IDA power sector mission visited Bangladesh
to identify projects for the sector lending program. At that time, it
became evident that USAID alone would not be in a position to finance the
full Stage II of the ACRE Program, and that other foreign assistance
should be sought by REB. Consequently, it was recommended in a Power
Sector Memorandum (3147-BD, of September 26, 1980) to advance the rural
electrification project provided in the FY83 lending program to FY82, to
enable IDA to assist in Stage II of the program.
4.02    Subsequent preparation of the proposed project was done by REB
with assistance from NRECA resident advisors. The project is defined as
construction of distribution networks in seven self-contained rural areas
(PBS areas), each consisting of two to four thanas (administrative
sub-divisions), and provision of consumer connections within a five-year
period. Parallel projects within Stage II, financed by other donors, are
expected to cover 13 additional self-contained areas. Electricity in all
areas is to be supplied by member-owned PBSs.
Area Selection
4.03    In order to arrive at a list of priority PBS areas for
electrification under the second tranche of Stage II 1/, 105 thanas
throughout the country were studied by consultants. Of these, 88 thanas
with high potential (equivalent to 25 PBS areas) were identified according
to a rating system that places emphasis on existing infrastructure,
surplus high-voltage power supply, and potential numbers of consumers.
Details of the ranking approach are discussed in Annex 10. After
eliminating 6 potential areas because of insufficient high-voltage power
supply, 4 of the remaining 19 areas were proposed for USAID finance, and 7
for Bank Group finance. Characteristics and ranking of these areas are
shown in Annex 13. The PBS areas considered for the proposed project are
Dacca II, Faridpur II, Noakhali II, Chittagong II, Khulna II, Barisal II,
and Kushtia II (Annex 14). Those considered for USAID parallel finance
are Jamalpur I, Chittagong I, Rangpur II, and Bogra II.
1/ The first tranche of 8 PBSs had been already selected under a Kuwait
Fund-financed project.



-23-
Project Description
4.04    The project will (i) install new electricity distribution networks
in the above 7 areas, (ii) rehabilitate existing distribution systems in
these areas that are operated by BPDB, and (iii) create seven new
member-owned PBSs and make them operational. The extent of the seven
areas was chosen to make the cooperatives manageable, while keeping the
number of consumer per cooperative staff miember high. The average PBS
area has a population of about 800,000 (ranging from 500,000 to 900,000)
in about 140,000 households, contains aboult 750 existing irrigation pumps,
and about 430 small and medium industries on an area of about 400 square
miles (Annex 15, Table IV).
4.05    The entire construction of new and rehabilitation of existing
distribution systems will be carried out by REB as main implementing
agency. REB will use a stock of local specialized distribution
consultants and contractors whose staff has undergone intensive training
by REB and NRECA for local detailed systein design and actual construction.
The system used is the standard REB-develDped mixed three-phase/
single-phase system (paras 2.05 to 2.09). The new and rehabilitated
network will include 66/11 kV and 33/11 kV substations, 11 kV backbone
lines, 400/230 V distribution lines, and consumer connections. The
existing 11/6.35 kV primary system and existing substations will be
rehabilitated and integrated into the new system, and existing rural
consumers will join the new PBSs.
4.06    The construction goals under the project (representing the full
implementation of the basic infrastructure, and consumer connections up to
the fifth year after the beginning of corstruction) include about 1,720
miles of three-phase and single-phase primary line, about 1,680 miles of
secondary line, and 14 substations (Annex 15, Table II). In terms of
consumer connections, about 88,500 residential and commercial meters
(representing about 185,000 households with about 1.1 million people),
about 1,900 irrigation pumps, and about 660 industrial enterprises are
expected to be connected by December 198E, (Annex 15, Table III). At that
time, about 23% of households in the pro:ject areas will have electricity
supply, and 36% of existing diesel-driven irrigation pumps and 22% of
existing industries with diesel motive power will have replaced diesel by
electricity.  Connection growth will cont:inue, financed by PBSs
internally generated and borrowed funds, until the 12th year of
operations, by which time temporary saturation will be reached with about
65% of households connected, and about 25% new industrial and irrigation
connections beyond the presently existing ones generated.
4.07    Seven new PBS cooperative institutions will be created at the
beginning of detailed design work, whose boards of directors will be
responsible for load promotion, sign-up campaigns, hiring of PBS staff,
and preparing for operations during the construction period. All training



-24-
of board directors, PBS staff, village electricians, and linemen will be
provided by REB and NRECA within the framework of the existing training
program. Technical assistance for the proposed project will be fully
financed by USAID under their second rural electrification project.
Project Cost and Financing
4.08    The total cost of the project is estimated at Tk 1,157 million
(US$64.3 million) including duties and taxes, and Tk 1,022 million
(US$56.8 million) excluding these items. A detailed breakdown is provided
in Table 4.1 and Annex 16. Physical contingencies of 7.5%, and price
contingencies amounting to a total of 26%,1/ were applied.
1/ For imported goods, and local labor and services: 8.0% in 1982 and
1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985, and 6.0% in 1986. For local con-
struction materials: 15.0% in 1982 and 1983, 13% in 1984, 12% in 1985,
and 11% in 1986.



-25-
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary
(Tk million)                     (US$ million)
Foreign    Local    Total        Foreign    Local    Total
Construction
Commodities           506.0       64.5    570.5          28.1      3.6       31.7
Support
Commodities            31.6         -       31.6          1.8       -         1.8
Installation             -         81.5      31.5           -       4.5        4.5
Engineering and
Overheads               -         67.2      67.2           -       3.7        3.7
Sub-total              537.6      213.2    750.8          29.9     11.8       41.7
Physical
Contingency            39.7       16.0      55.7          2.2      0.9        3.1
Price
Contingency           142.6       72.6    215.2           7.9      4.0       11.9
Total                  719.9      301.8  1,021.7         40.0      16.7       56.7
Duties & Taxes           -        135.6    135.6            -       7.6        7.6
Total Project Cost    719.9       437.4  1,157.3          40.0     24.3       64.3
Interest Capitalized    -           4.4       4.4           -       0.2        0.2
Total Financing
Requirement           719.9      441.8  1,161.7          40.0     24.5       64.5
4.09    The total expected direct foreign component of the project is
US$40 million equivalent: the indirect foreign component is negligible.
Most line and substation material and all support equipment is likely to
be imported, as it is not readily available in Bangladesh.  An IDA Credit
of US$40 million is recommended, to cover the purchase of conductors,
poles and crossarms, insulators, distribution transformers, connection
materials, complete substation equipment, switchgear, assorted line and
substation accessories, and selected support equipment such as vehicles,
spares, tools, and mini computers (Annex 16, Table III). The remainder of
the cost of the project (all local expend:Ltures) would be provided by GOB
from its resources. The proposed Credit represents about 70% of total



-26-
project cost excluding taxes and duties, and about 62% of cost including
these items.
Procurement
4.10    REB will procure all materials and equipment for the project, and
will award negotiated design and construction contracts to local
distribution consultants and contractors, who will then use and install
the equipment provided by REB. Credit proceeds will be used only for the
purchase of materials and equipment likely to be imported. REB will
invite bids, using international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures
satisfactory to IDA, for their estimated requirements of materials in four
tranches between mid-1982 and early 1985 (Annex 15, Table I). Bangladesh
manufacturers will receive a margin of preference of 15% or the current
rate of customs duty, whichever is less. The procurement procedures for
project materials procured without using Credit proceeds are satisfactory,
and include allocation of contracts for the design and construction of
distribution systems by REB to local consultant and construction firms
that have been created with REB sponsorship and whose staff has been
trained by REB.
Disbursement
4.11    The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed against full
documentation as follows: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment; and (ii) 100% of local expenditures ex-factory for
locally manufactured equipment. Disbursements by IDA would begin in the
first quarter of FY1984: the estimated disbursement schedule is given in
Annex 17. The rate of disbursement is somewhat faster than the typical
rate experienced in power projects, running about 2 years ahead of the
typical profile. This is based on experience with the ongoing first USAID
project, and is due to the nature of the proposed project as part of REB's
established ongoing construction program.
Onlending
4.12    GOB will onlend the Credit proceeds to REB at an interest rate of
2% p.a., with a repayment period of 25 years after a 5-year grace period,
during which a rate of interest of 0.75% will be applicable but
capitalized. This compares to an onlending rate of 2% from GOB to REB
under the recently approved rural electrification loan of the Kuwait Fund,
and grants from GOB to REB under the USAID loan/grant for the first rural
electrification project, and the USAID grant for the second project. In
the light of GOB policy to promote the new venture of rural
electrification, this onlending arrangement is satisfactory, although
commercial interest rates are significantly higher. During negotiations,
GOB expressed its preparedness to review with IDA higher onlending rates



-27-
for future projects in the sub-sector, if future circumstances would allow
it.
4.13    At the time of energization, REB will transfer the capital
representing the completed distribution niatworks as loans to the newly
created PBSs at the same terms as the onlending from GOB to REB, with the
exception of an interest rate of 3% after the grace period. This compares
to grants from REB to existing and future PBSs under USAID finance, and an
interest rate of 3% under Kuwait Fund finance. Considering GOB policy in
the sub-sector the transfer terms are satisfactory. The foreign exchange
risk will be borne by GOB. The conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between GOB and REB satisfactory to IDA, and the submission to IDA of a
satisfactory Standard Loan Agreement between REB and PBSs will be
conditions of Credit effectiveness.
Risks
4.14    The risks inherent in the implemenitation of the project are those
of delay that are encountered in other projects of this type. One
possible source of delay would be a slowez build-up of skilled line
construction crew capacity than anticipated at present. However, REB is
conducting an intensive lineman training program (para. 3.21).



-28-
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
REB Financial Conditions and Performance
5.01    The actual financial statements of REB during FY1977/78-1979/80
do not provide reliable indications to assess its financial performance
during that early stage of its existence in which, however, a considerable
degree of stability in its financial system and accounts has been
achieved. To implement the first project of the ACRE Program, REB has
raised necessary funds from GOB (a grant of Tk 702 million) to cover the
local expenses, and from USAID (US$70 million, of which US$34 million was
a grant) to cover costs of foreign goods and services. For part of the
second stage, KFAED is providing about US$30 million equivalent to cover
the foreign cost besides the GOB grant contribution of Tk 676 million.
5.02    On handing over the completed schemes to PBSs, their total costs,
including that part provided by GOB and USAID to REB as grants will be
considered as a long term loan financing. Accordingly, REB, because it
enjoys a spread on the interest rate, and receives part of its capital as
grant (paras. 4.12 and 4.13), is expected to improve its financial
capabilities when PBSs start servicing their loans. Since interest on
PBSs loans have not fallen due before FY1981/82, actual results for REB
are not available; however, it is expected that REB's total spread will be
sufficient to cover its administrative expenses and interest on its
borrowing starting from FY1981/82, and have an increasing net income
thereafter. Furthermore, GOB, in accordance with REB-s Presidential
Ordinance, is committed to cover REB administrative expenses. Because of
its importance to REB's finances in future, it was agreed during
negotiations, that GOB shall cover, when required, any deficit arising
from REB-s operations.
5.03    At the end of FY1979/80, none of the rural electrification schemes
had been completed or handed over to PBSs, and all the capital funds
disbursed during FYs 1977/78-1979/80 (TK 533 million) were considered as
work in progress. Therefore, REB's actual financial statements of
FY1977/78-1979/80 do not reflect its basic role of providing the cost of
completed schemes as loans to PBSs and the financial results of these
years represent mainly REB's administrative expenses (Annex 18).
REB Financial Projections
5.04    The financial projections of REB reflect the expected performance
in FY1980/81 through FY89/90 (Annex 18). REB is assumed to raise funds
sufficient to cover the implementation of about 84 PBSs constituting five
Phases of the ACRE Program. The onlending rates for Stage I (Annex 18)



-29-
are unlikely to be exactly repeated in later phases. For the proposed
project, the rates of interest shown in Table 5.1 have been agreed and
will be included in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and sub-loan Agreement
with PBSs (para. 4.13).
Table 5.1
Projected Onlendling Rates
From GOB to REB   From REB to PBSs  Spread
GOB Grants:
a- The first five yearsl/          -                 0.75%         0.75
b- From the sixth year             -                 3.0%          3.0%
Foreign Loans:
a- The first five yearsl/         0.75%              0.75%          -
b- From the sixth year            2.0%                3.0%          1.0%
5.05    The financing plan between FY1980,181 and FY1989/90 is shown in
Annex 18. During the period of FY1982/83 to 1986/87 (the bulk of the
implementation period of the proposed project), the foreign borrowing
required for the coming stages of the ACR'E program will be about US$640
million (Tk 11,513 million) while foreign funds considered available are
as follows:
US$ million
USAID I   (balance)       4.4
KFAED                     29.6
USAID II                 50.0
IDA      (the project)  40.0
Total      124.0
This indicates that up to FY1986/87, REB will need additional funds in
foreign currency amounting to about US$516 million, to finance the
continued ACRE Program implementation beyond the first two Phases.
Prospects for fund mobilization are good, as there is considerable
interest in the REB program among potential donors.
1/   Interest to be accumulated and added to the principal at the end of
the fifth year.



-30-
REB Performance Criteria
5.06    REB efficient performance depends on two factors.  The first is
its ability to realize revenues to cover its administrative expenses and
its interest expense, and to provide for a reasonable margin of net
income. The second is its ability to generate sufficient sources of
funds, including PBS loan repayments, to meet its debt service requirement
and to provide for a surplus of funds necessary for future expansion and
operation. The first factor can be measured by the percentages of total
expenses, including interest expense, to total revenue: it is expected
that REB can achieve 68% in FY1985/86. The second factor can be measured
by the ratio of internal sources of funds, including PBS loan repayments,
to debt service: it is expected that this ratio will not be less than 1.5
during the projection period. During negotiations, it was agreed that REB
shall ensure that:
(i) its administrative expenses and interest payments
in any financial year beginning 1985/86 shall not
exceed a maximum of 75% of the aggregate interest
and other revenues received from all sources during
that financial year; and
(ii) its internal sources of funds including PBS loan
repayments in any financial year shall cover at
least 1.5 times the debt service requirement.
It was also agreed that GOB will cause REB to adjust its future onlending
rates so as to enable REB to comply with the above provisions.
REB Audit
5.07    The Presidential Ordinance for REB provides that its accounts be
audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Bangladesh. Although
the Auditor-General has completed the audit of FY1977/78-1979/80, the
audit report for FY1979/80 (ending on June 30, 1980, had not been prepared
by May 30, 1981; furthermore, the audit reports of FY1977/79 and FY1979/80
are of a Government-type audit which stresses only the conformity of
expenditures with Government regulations, placing less emphasis on
relevant issues required to carry out a commercial-type audit. Therefore,
to ensure an acceptable audit and a time frame for effective audit
procedure, REB agreed during negotiations to have its accounts audited by
an independent auditor (appointed prior to the year to be audited)
acceptable to IDA and furnish to the Association, not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of its audited
financial statements, the audit report, and its comments or a plan for
corrective actions if necessary.



-31-
REB System of Accounts
5.08    REB-s system of accounts, developed by NRECA consultants, is based
on the Uniform System of Accounts prescribed by the Rural Electrification
Administration of the United States (recently applied in the Philippines)
with necessary modifications considered appropriate to REB. The system is
properly defined in the appropriate REB manuals. Besides considering
REB's existing activities of planning and implementing the rural
electrification program, the system also includes any possible involvement
in electricity generation and distribution in the future. The system is
based on accrual of revenues and expenses and provides for property
accounting, cost and budgetary control, and satisfactory means for
management information, and is in conformity with sound accounting
practices. The system has been implemented for more than two years by REB
accounting staff under the supervision cf a resident NRECA team that is
also concerned with continuous training of local staff. During
negotiations, it was agreed that REB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.
PBS Financial Projections (Average PBS of Stage II)
5.09    The financial projections of a PBS, included in this report,
represent the expected performance of an average PBS in Stage II. The
Income Statement, Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds, and
Balance Sheets (Annex 19) are prepared t:o cover the PBS-s performance over
twelve years following the start of scheme implementation. The BPDB bulk
tariff for sales to PBSs which is assumed in the financial projections is
based on the existing bulk tariff, and l:akes into account the future
increases in BPDB-s tariff level required under the proposed Ashuganj
Thermal Power Project. Because of low iJnitial sales volume, break-even is
not expected during the first five years of the PBS's operation. As a
result, agreement was reached that GOB will provide a temporary bulk
tariff subsidy as detailed in para 5.14, In view of the fact that PBSs
only have minimal paid-up capital and considering their limited
capabilities to raise necessary funds for their operations, it was agreed
that REB shall make available to PBSs: *'i) short term finance necessary
for their working capital; and (ii) the funds needed to provide credit
facilities for the purchase of appliances and members' house-wiring.
PBSs' Desirable Performance and Criteria
5.10    The financial viability of a PBS depends on its eventual ability
to earn revenues sufficient to cover elicctricity purchases which are based
on a realistic marginal cost, its adminLstrative expenses, depreciation,
and interest expenses on borrowings aft,sr not more than five years of
operation, and to eliminate the need for GOB to subsidize the tariff



-32-
during this period (see para 5.13). Starting from the seventh year, it
should generate in addition, a surplus of cash flow equivalent to not less
than 20% of the PBS's capital expenditure. These performance criteria are
in line with the results expected from the average PBS. It was agreed
during negotiations, that REB shall cause PBSs to take all such measures,
including adjustments of their retail tariffs, to achieve these
performance levels and to cause them to pay promptly to BPDB their
electricity purchases in a way that the unpaid consumption of any of them
- at any time - does not exceed the total billed consumption of the
preceding two months.
PBSs' Uniform System of Accounts
5.11    PBSs' by-laws and the standard loan agreement with REB provide
that PBSs shall keep proper books and records of accounts. Therefore, a
uniform system of accounts, for all PBSs, has been developed by NRECA and
has been implemented by the operating PBSs. Similar to the REB accounting
system, the PBSs' Uniform System of Accounts is based on the U.S. Uniform
System of Accounts. As the system is well designed, and its
implementation in the first five PBSs is accompanied by effective training
of their staff, all necessary steps are being taken to allow PBSs to
maintain appropriate accounting practices. It was agreed during
negotiations that REB shall cause PBSs to maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.
PBS Audit
5.12    PBSs' by-laws provide that a certified accountant should carry out
the audit of its accounts after the close of every fiscal year, and that
the audit report should be submitted at the annual meeting of members.
Moreover, the standard loan agreement between REB and PBSs allows REB
-through its representatives- to inspect the PBSs books, records, and
documents. However, these two kinds of audit have not yet been exercised
and the independent auditors have not yet been appointed. Therefore, and
in line with PBSs' by-laws, REB agreed during negotiations to cause PBSs
to have their accounts audited by an independent auditor (appointed prior
to the year to be audited) acceptable to IDA, and furnish to the
Association not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
certified copies of its audited financial statement along with the audit
report.
Bulk Tariff
5.13    In October 1980, GOB approved a new tariff structure for consumers
of BPDB including a bulk tariff for the PBSs of TkO.78/KWh. During initial
years of operation, PBSs may not be in a position to make payments
according to this and future bulk tariff levels for the following main



-33-
reasons: (i) at present, the rate is significantly higher than BPDB's
subsidized retail tariff to its urban domestic consumers, which would
create problems in areas where BPDB supply and PBS supply are in immediate
proximity; and (ii) the rate is based on a study in which the unacceptably
high losses of the BPDB system (about 37%) are incorporated, thus
increasing the cost of supply.
5.14    During appraisal, GOB indicated its readiness to solve the problem
through temporarily granting a Government subsidy to cover the gap between
the realistic cost of supply of power fromL BPDB and what could be charged
to PBSs in accordance with their financial capabilities. Accordingly, GOB
submitted as a condition of negotiations E. subsidization formula, which
was found satisfactory, to cover the difference between the cost of supply
of power from BPDB and the tariff paid by PBSs subject to their cost
recovery capabilities (Annex 19). This subsidization formula is based on
a method of calculation which was suggested previously by the Association.
Agreement was reached that the subsidy shall by provided by GOB to REB and
shall be phased out after the first five years of each PBSs' operation.
It was also agreed that GOB shall design, not later than December 31, 1982
and thereafter implement, until such time as the general tariff structure
referred to in para. 5.15 is implemented, a method for the calculation of
the bulk tariff to be charged to PBSs, which shall reflect the long-run
marginal cost of the power supplied by BPDB.
PBSs Retail Tariffs
5.15    Each of the existing PBSs has its own tariff which is based on a
calculation method developed by REB with the assistance of the NRECA
consulting team. Although the calculations of PBSs retail tariffs have so
far been based on a bulk tariff of Tk/kWh 0.226 instead of Tk/kWh 0.78,
the method is acceptable in principle and it will cover, after five years
of operation, the cost of power supplied to PBSs' consumers according to
the agreed bulk tariff. The comparison between BPDB retail tariffs and
those of existing PBSs indicates that, despite the differences between
individual consumer category tariffs in BPDB and PBSs, the average selling
price to all consumers in both is nearly equal. This is due to the
different consumer mix, cross-subsidizaticn, and different minimum charges
or fixed rates. During negotiations, it was agreed that GOB shall carry
out, by December 1984, a study of the bulk and retail tariffs of all
supply authorities in the power sector, which will be based on long-run
marginal cost, and implement, by July 1, 1985, a new tariff structure in
BPDB and PBSs based on the recommendations of the study. It was also
agreed that, until this tariff structure is implemented, the average price
per kWh sold by PBSs shall not be less than the average price per kWh sold
by BPDB.



-34-
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
6.01    Rural electrification in Bangladesh lends itself to justification
using cost savings accruing to the economy by using electricity rather
than conventional energy sources for domestic and commercial use,
irrigation pumping, and rural small industry. This approach yields
attributable benefits of electrification that include part of consumer
surplus.
Cost Comparison
6.02    The cost comparison of electric and major present non-electric
energy sources for rural applications, taking into account all costs
incurred by consumers as well as the supply authorities (valuing the
energy input at its long-run marginal cost of the integrated system after
interconnection of the two separate grids), yields a clear cost advantage
for all uses of electricity. The annual economic cost advantage of a
typical electric irrigation pump over a comparable diesel pump amounts to
about Tk 21,700 (US$1,205) for deep tubewells, Tk 3,100 (US$172) for
shallow tubewells, and Tk 9,100 (US$505) for low-lift pumps. In the case
of domestic and commercial lighting, the advantage of using electricity is
about Tk 700 (US$39) per year per connection, and in the case of small
industry, about Tk 18,800 (US$1,044) per connection per year (Annex 20,
para 7). The results of the cost comparison are sensitive to changes in
the long-run marginal cost of power supply, but do not encroach on the
cost advantage for the use of electricity within a wide range of marginal
cost variation. For pumping and small industry, the diesel alternative
only becomes attractive in economic terms if marginal cost of power
increases by about 70-80% and the cost of the alternative remains constant
(an unlikely event, as fuel prices influence both costs).
Economic Rate of Return
6.03    All seven PBS areas to be electrified under the project are
sufficiently homogenous in their characteristics to allow economic
analysis on the basis of a representative PBS area. This approach has
more explanatory value in view of the staggered implementation of
electrification in these areas, which makes independent treatment of each
self-contained PBS more suitable for analysis. Each PBS area is assumed
to show demand growth until year 12 after the start of implementation, at
which time demand growth levels off. Costs are assumed to include initial
and subsequent REB and PBS investment, operation and maintenance
expenditures by PBSs, the long-run marginal cost of energy supply to the
PBS area at the 33/11 kV substation, and the initial and recurring costs
incurred by consumers. Benefits are defined as the avoided initial and
recurring costs of the non-electric alternative (yielding the same



-35-
output), suitably adjusted to reflect declining valuation of energy inputs
with increasing consumption (Annex 20). Eor purposes of shadow pricing,
costs and benefits are expressed in border prices or their equivalents,
either by directly estimating CIF values, or by applying an appropriate
conversion factor.
6.04    Economic internal rates of return are calculated under different
assumptions of the shape of the demand curve for energy inputs. The
results are satisfactory. The base case, reflecting a realistic split of
incremental demand between replacement and generated consumption, yields a
rate of return of about 11%. In the somewhat more optimistic case with a
high share of replacement benefits, the rate of return increases to about
17%.  Only extremely conservative assumptions with respect to the
valuation of benefits (cases 2 and 3 in Arnex 20) result in very low or
negative rates of return. The true economic rate of return is likely to
be significantly higher, as additional benefits such as the remainder of
consumer surplus, production-related indirect economic benefits of
electrification, and unquantifiable benefits of improvement of quality of
life in rural areas are not taken into account. As a separate
consideration, the replacement of imported petroleum products by natural
gas-generated electricity is a significant: saving of foreign exchange.
6.05    The analysis is most sensitive to changes in the marginal cost of
power supply.  An increase of 25% would decrease the rate of return to 5%
in the base case, 12% in the higher-benef"t case (Annex 20).  However, the
marginal cost as calculated (Tk 1.2/kWh in economic terms) is unlikely to
have an error margin of this magnitude. A more likely scenario is the
gradual decrease of marginal cost in real terms over time, as a higher
share of weighted marginal energy cost at peak is represented by natural
gas-fired generation. In this case, a mar-ginal cost decrease by 25% would
result in rates of return above 20% in the high-benefits case, and more
than 15% in the base case. An independeni: increase in marginal cost
without corresponding increases in the cost of the alternative energy
sources, however, is unlikely.
Tariffs and Cost of Supply
6.06    The rural electrification program being in its infancy, no firm
decisions about tariff levels applicable -o rural members of cooperatives
are now being taken. Agreements concerning the desirable level and
structure of PBS tariffs based on a bulk supply tariff between BPDB and
the PBSs are outlined in paras 5.13 to 5.15. The best revenue evidence so
far is the collection by Dacca I PBS, the first energized PBS. The PBS
has been recovering about Tk 1.10/kWh (US$0.06/KWh) on average in 1981
(Annex 12) by applying tariffs similar to those of BPDB. In other,
recently energized PBSs, recovery ranges Erom Tk 0.90 to Tk 1.10/kWh
(US$0.05-0.06/kWh).



-36-
6.07    In contrast to this, the marginal cost of power supply to the
rural system at 33/11 kV is estimated to be about Tk 1.2/kWh (US$0.07/kWh)
in economic terms, as compared to the presently approved bulk tariff of
Tk 0.78/kWh (US$0.04/kWh). This would imply a marginal cost of about Tk
1.80-2.30/kWh (US$0.10-0.13/kWh) in domestic terms at retail level. A too
rapid approach towards marginal cost levels for rural consumers, however,
is not advisable for two reasons. Firstly, those categories of consumers
that form the bulk of PBS membership, are significantly cross-subsidized
in the BPDB system by industrial consumers, creating a large gap between
tariff levels for consumers of the same category in adjoining urban (BPDB)
and rural (PBS) areas which is politically unacceptable. Secondly, an
initial promotional approach to familiarize the rural population with
electricity use and popularize the concept of electrification would lead
to better utilization of connected load and build up consumption in the
system to levels that represent a reasonable potential for return on
investment. REB is willing to approach tariff levels comparable to
adjusted long-run marginal cost gradually, based on the development of a
realistic marginal cost-based bulk tariff formula.
6.08    Under the terms of the recently approved USAID grant for the
Second Rural Electrification Project, GOB undertakes to develop a fully
satisfactory and agreed formula for the calculation and adjustment of the
bulk tariff payable to BPDB by PBSs by mid-1982. This undertaking is
satisfactory, and the Bank Group's agreement will be sought by GOB before
final implementation of the new formula (para. 5.14). A bulk tariff
formula incorporating marginal cost considerations will automatically lead
to an adjustment of PBS retail tariffs, after GOB subsidies covering rural
system financial losses (para 5.14) will have been phased out. In
addition, GOB agreed during negotiations to prepare, with the help of
consultants, a general power sector tariff study by December 1984. The
findings of the study, based on long-run marginal cost considerations,
will be implemented by July 1, 1985. The timing is appropriate to take
into account system operation characteristics after the interconnection of
the eastern and western grids in 1983 (para. 5.15).
Beneficiaries and Affordability
6.09    First sample evidence indicates that it is primarily the
relatively better-off members of a village community who obtain domestic
and irrigation pump connections during the first years of electrification.
This is a function of ownership of assets (land, shops, etc.) that enable
the consumer to make profitable use of electricity or to afford a domestic
connection.



-37-
6.10    A survey iin the first energized PBS yielded evidence that 85% of
domestic connections were taken up by mid(dle and upper income group
households in the village (Tk 800 or US$44 per month family income and
above), while only 15% were applied for by lower-income families. 1/
About 50% of connected consumers had a monthly consumption low enough to
pay only the minimum charge of Tk 15/montlh (US$0.83). This minimum
charge, however, represents 3-4% of the low-income group's monthly income;
a significant increase for this group may mean economic hardship. The
income share of the electricity bill for l:he better-off consumers amounts
to about 1-3%. These amounts exclude other consumer costs of electricity
such as housewiring.
6.11    In irrigation pumping, REB estimates show an average total
expenditure for cultivating irrigated land of about Tk 2,400 per acre.
The average electricity bill at present i; Tk 200 per acre (assuming about
33 acres irrigated by an average-sized deep tubewell), or 8% of total
costs. A gradual increase in this amount could easily be accommodated by
farmers, although a sudden substantial increase would decrease farmer-s
margins and may be difficult to adjust to.
6.12    Landless laborers in rural areas benefit indirectly from rural
electrification. Having few assets suited for the utilization of
electricity, they benefit from increased employment opportunities created
by the irrigation-induced expansion of laadowners activity through
multiple cropping, and by the expansion of small industrial activity in
villages.
1/ "middle-income" in the Bangladesh context of course, represents very
low levels by international standards.



-38-
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS
Agreements During Negotiations
7.01    During negotiations, the following agreements and undertakings
were obtained from GOB and REB:
(i) GOB will submit to IDA , by December 31, 1982, a satisfactory
program for improvement of coordination between REB, BPDB, BADC,
and other agencies involved in rural electrification, and will
implement this program thereafter (para. 2.11).
(ii) REB will submit to IDA, by October 31, 1982, a satisfactory
status report and program designed to deal effectively with
potential technical and operational problems (para. 2.15).
(iii) GOB will onlend Credit proceeds to REB, and REB will transfer
assets to PBSs, on terms satisfactory to IDA, and the local
component of project cost will be provided by GOB to REB as a
grant (paras. 4.12-13, and 5.04).
(iv) GOB will cover any deficit from REB-s operation in future
(para. 5.02).
(v) GOB will initially subsidize the difference between an agreed
bulk tariff for BPDB supply to PBSs, and PBS payments based on
their,ability to recover costs, according to a formula
satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.14).
(vi) GOB will submit to IDA, by December 31, 1982, a satisfactory
formula to calculate and adjust the BPDB bulk tariff to PBSs,
and cause BPDB to implement it thereafter (paras. 5.14 and 6.08).
(vii) GOB will submit to IDA, by December 31, 1984, a general power
sector tariff study satisfactory to IDA, and will cause BPDB
and PBSs to implement it thereafter (paras. 5.15 and 6.08).
(viii) REB will ensure that:
(a) its administrative expenses and interest payments
beginning in FY86 shall not exceed 75% of aggregate
interest and other revenues received by REB (para. 5.06);



-39--
(b)  its internally generated funds in any fiscal year shall
at least cover 1.5 times its debt service requirement
(para. 5.06);
(c) it makes available to PBSs (i) working capital as
short-term loans, and (ii) the funds needed to provide
credit facilities for the purchase of appliances and
members' house-wiring (para. 5.09);
(d) PBSs shall set their retail tariffs at levels sufficient
to (i) cover after not more than five years of operations,
their power purchases (based on a marginal-cost-based
bulk tariff), their administrative expenses, depreciation,
and interest expenses, and (ii) generate, after not more
than six years, a surplus of cash flow beyond the cost
recovery under (i), equal to not less than 20% of their
capital expenditure (para. 5.10); and
(e) PBSs shall, until the findings of the tariff study under
(vii) are implemented, set their retail tariffs at levels
sufficient to ensure that their average revenue per kWh
sold is not less than the BPDB average revenue per kWh
sold (para. 5.15).
(ix) REB and PBSs will furnish to IDA in time certified copies of
their audited financial statements together with the audit
report by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (paras. 5.07
and 5.13).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.02    The following will be conditions of effectiveness:
(i) conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and
REB satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4.12 and 5.04); and
(ii) submission to IDA of a satisfactory sample Standard Sub-Loan
Agreement between REB and PBSs (paras. 4.13 and 5.04).
Recommendation
7.03    The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
Credit of US$40 million equivalent.






-40-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Generating Capacities and Maximum Demand
(MW)
Installed Capacity               Year of                                      1980   1981       1982      1983   1984       1985      1986      1987       1983      1989     1990
Year Ending June 30                            Number aind Rating of Units        Commissioning           uel                    -------------------------------------Available Capacity----------------------------------
I. West Zone
A. Existing (1980)                              lx60       Steam                      1973              Heavy oil                  40      60        60        60      60        60         60        60        60        60       60
Shulsla                                     1x]2.75   Comhrstion T,rbine           1976             ni-hnl Oil                  -       10       ic         10      10        10        10         10        10        10       1
1x6.5      Combustion Turbine         1968             Diesel Oil                   4      .5         5                 5                  -          -         -         -        -
4x4.15    Steam                       1959-60           Diesel Oil                  8       8         8        -       -         -         -          -         -         -
lxIO.5    Combustian Turbine          1980             Diesel oil                  10      10        10        10      10        10        10         10        10        10       10
2x28       Combustion Turbine         1980              Diesel Oil                 56      56        56        56                     Shifted to East Zone
(Barge Mounted)                                                                                            60        60         60        60        60        60        60
3x20       Combustion Turbine         1976-80          Diesel Oil                  58     60         60        60      10.5      10.5      10,5       10.5      10.5      10.5    10.5
Bheramara
3m3.75    Diesel                      1975-77           Heavy Oil/DieselOil         7      10.5      10.5      10.5    -         -         -         -          -         -        -
Saidpur
7x1.5     Diesel                      1964             Heavy Oil                    4      4         4        -        -         -         _         -         _          _        -
Thakurgaon
13     13        -         -
othier Small Diesel- Units                   13                                                                              __3       13_ 
200    246.5    223.5    211.5   155.5    155.5    150.5    150.5    150.5    150.5    150.5
SBebtotal A,                             257
B. New                                         3x8.3      Diesel                     1983              Fuel Oil                                               25      25        25       25         25         25        25        25
Barisal                                     1x2.5      Diesel                                                                                    2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5      2.5
ixilD      Steam                      1982             Fuel Oil                                              110     110       110        110       110       110       110       110
Khul na
lx150      Steam                      1989             Oil /Coal                                                                                                        150       150
Net yet Located                            287.40                                                                             -        -         2.5    137.5   137.5    137.5        137.5     137.5     137.5    2827.5    287.5
Subtotal B.
200    246.5    226        349      293       293       288        288       288       438       438
Total Available Capacity West Zone                                                                                              124    150        183       224      274      336        384       439       502       573       655
Maximum Demand                                                                                                                   76      96.5      43       125       19   (-) 43   (-) 96   (-)151   (-)214    (-)135   (-)217
Total Available Capacity less Maximum
Demand                                                                                                                         38     39          5       36        6        -         -          -         -         -         -
In X of Total Available Capacity                                                                                                160    186.5    166        239      183       183        178       178       178       288       288
Total Availabla Caps ty less Largest
Unit                                                                                                                          36      36.5 (-) 17         15 (-)  91   (-)153   (-)206    (-)261   (0)324   (-)285   (--367
Total Available Capacity less Largest
Unit less Maminu-m Demand                                                                                                     23      20        _          6
In X of Total Available Capacity less
Largest Unit






-41-                                                              ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Installed Caipacity                Year of                               1980     1981      1982    1983        1984      1985      1986      1987       1988      1989      1990
Year Elding June 30                    Number and Rating of Llits           Co issioinl                             --------------------------------------Available Capacity-----------------------------------
It East ZoLne
A a. a                              240         Hr(1980)                    1961-62                                92       92        92          92        92        92        92         92        92         92       92
KAshugai                            2x40       Slydro                       1970-71    Natural Gas                100      100       120         120       120       120       120        120       120        120      120
Ashuganj                            2x64        Steanm                       1974-75    Natural Gas               110      110        110        110       110       110       110        110       110        110      110
Ghorasaln                           2x55        Steam                        1959-60    Natural Gas                24       24        24          24        24        24        24         24        24         24       24
Siddhirganj                         3x5iO       Steam                       1971         Natural Gas               50       50        50          50        50        50        50         50        50         50       50
Shahjibazar                         3x14.75   Combustion Turbine            1970-71      Natural Gas               50       50        70          70        70        70        70
L.x16      Combustion Turbine           1970-71
Chittagng                           42x6.5      Combustion Trubine          1968         Diesel Oil/Natural    426          10        10          10        10        10        10         -        3         3        3
Chittagong  ~     ~         - -Gas    426                                                                         -43 6-    476        -476      -476      -476      -476       -396       396       396      396
Subtotal A.                      519.25
B. New                                             Combustion Tulrbine          1980        Natural Gas               -        -         _           _         56        56        56         56        56         56       56
KSahifted from West Zone)           2x28         Barge Mounted)              1982                                  -        -         50         50         50        50        50         50        50        50       50
Kaptai                              l2x5O       Hydro                        1986-07                                        -         -          -         -          -         50       i00        100       100      100
Chittagong                           1xl6050    sSteeam                     1983         Natural Gas               -        -                    6 60      60         60        60        60         60        60       60
Chittag..g                 llSO       Steam                        1988         Natural Gas               -        -         -          -         -         -          -         -         15o       150      150
Ashugani                   2~~~~ ~~~~x30  Steam                    1982-83    Natural Gas                 -        -        60          90        90        90        90         90        90         90       90
Ashuganj       Conibined Cycle      2x30        coembuto    ubn
2xI530     Combustion Turbine           1985-86    Natural Gas                -        -         -          -         -         150       300       300        300       300      300
2x150      Steam                       1990         Natural Gas               -        -         -                              -          -         -          -         -       150
ixiSO      Steamn                       1985        Natural Gas               -        -         -          --                 210        210       210       210        210      210
Ghorasal                             1x210      Steam                                                                                                                  
1x210      Steam                        1987        Natural Gas                                                                                     210-       210____ ____ _210___  210_
Ghorasal  Ix210  steeaa                 19875       iNatural Cas              _        -        110        200       256        616       816     1,076     1,226      1,226    1,376
Subtotal B.                      1,376
426      436      586        676        732     1.092    1,292      1,472      1,622     1,622    1,772
Total Available Capacity East Zone                                                                                        338      392      436        485        539       60n       686        783       895    1.022   1,168
88       44      150        191       193        492       606       689        727       600      604
Total Available Capacity less
MaxioTum  Demand                                                                                                         21       10       26         28         26        45        47         47        45        37       34
In Z of Total Available Capacity                                                                                          376      386      526        616       672        882     1,082     1,262      1,412     1,412   1,562
Total Available Capacity less
Largest Guniit                                                                                                           38  (-)  6        90        131       133       282        396       479       517        390      394
Total Available Capacity less
Largest Unit less Maximum Demand                                                                                         10                17         21        20         32        37        38         37        28       25
Total Interconnected System.-
_   -   -       1,025      1,025     1,385     1,580      1,760     1,910     2,060   2,210
Total Available2 apacity                                                                                                   _        _        _         709       813       936     1,070      1,222     1,397      1,595    1,823
Maximum Demand-                                                                                                            _        _        _         316       212       449        510       538       513        465      387
Total Available Capacity less
Maximum Demand                                                                                                               -             -          31        21        32         32        31        27         23       18
In % of Total Available Capacity                                                                                           -        -       -          915       915     1,175     1,370     1,550      1,700     1,850   2,000
Total Available Capacity less
largest Unit                                                                                                           -         -       -         206        102       239       300       328        303       255      177
Total Available Capacity less
Largest Unit less Maximum Demnand                                                                                        -        -       -           23        11        20        22         21        18         14        9
In % of Total Available Capacity
less Largest Unit
1/  The two separate grids (West and East Zone) are due to be interconnected by mid-1983 through a double circulit
230 bV transsmission line.
2/  It has been assumed that the maximum demands in thc West nnd East Zonies are simultalneoits.






BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Bangladesh  oer Development Board (BPDB)
Hlistoric and Forecast dales, Generation and M-niha-n Demand
Interconnected Systems
Frend                                                        Trend                                                         Trend
Ye-r Eading Jone 30                  1976     1977      1978     1979     1980      1976-1990      1981     1962     1963      1984     1985     1981-1985      1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1986-1990
----------- Historic             --- - -                  ------------- Forecast------------------              X      -------------------Forecast------------------          X
S. WST 70SF.
Delco M(WB
Domestic                        18.4     22.,4      0.1     40 7     44.l        24.4        56.o      67.1     80.1    108.7    122.5        21.6        142.9     So.6    164,i    182.5    205.2           9.5
Joonserciol                    26.1      s7.4     32.3      35.7     37.4        9.4         51.8     62.8    17'.7t   100.0    103.8         19.0        120.8    126.6    138.8    152.7    173.1         14.2
Industry                       i26.1    146.2    173.9   216.0    237.5          17.2       329.8    407.9    512.2    712.6   860.8          27.1      1,000.5  1,032.3  1,140.1  1,250.7  1,414.4           9.0
Agricultore                      1.9      6.5       3.0     13.5      7.7        41.9         17.9     22.1     26.3      34.6     38.8       21.3         45.4      46.6     48.4      52.7     59.0         6.8
REB                              -        -         -        -        -           -            -        2.4      9.8     26.2      48.4         -         112.1    188.8    252.4    305.5    344.7          32.4
Other                            6.t      5.2      25.7     19.7     14.1        23.3         7.0       9.4      7.7      7.3       8.4        4.'7         9.3       8.1      8.2       9.0      9.0         -
Total            1           76    207.7    2 0          325.6    340.8        17.5       462.5    571.7    7         989            4   1,182.7 26.4 1,431.     0 1,530.0  1,752.0  1,953.1  2,205.4      11.4
A-m-]n Grow h (9)             2'7.2    16.3      2'7.6    22.9      4.6         _          26.4      23.6     25.0     38.5      19.5         -          21.0       825    12.8       11.5     12.9
Losses (GWh)                     109.1    129.3    158.7    191. P    246.9         -         250.5    278.3    315.6   269.6    313.3            -         4oo.     474.0    495.0    537.9    592.6           -
(17)                      37.9      38.4     37.5     37.1      42.0         -          35.1     32.7      30.6     21.4     20.9         -           21.9     23.4      22.0     21.6      21.2         -
Gel-ertion (GWh)
Diesel                          13.2      5.6      29.8     73.4     52.0        40.9        26.0      26.0     32.0    32.0       32.0         5.3        32.0      32.0     32.0      32.0     32.0         -
Foehboation Turbine             42.1    131.4   207.4    194.0    320.7          66.1       372.0    509.0    261.0    138.0    138.0    (-)28.1          134.0      93.0     93.0      93.0     93.0      (-)9.6
Stene                          232.4    200.0    186.5    250.0    215.0    (-) 2.0         315.0    315.0    380.0    447.0    447.0           9.1       447.0    447.0    447.0    841.o    841.o          17.1      -
Hydra-                                                                                                                                                                         -         -        -           - 
Tot al                      287.7     337.0    1123.7    517.     58.7         19.6       713.0    850.0    675.0    617.0    617.0    (-)  3.       7 97178    572.0    572.0                             12.0
Taport from the hast   ne        -        -        -         -                                -                357.0    642.0    879.0                  1,218.0  1,455.o  1,675.0  1,525.0  1,832.0          10.7
Msimhms lDmand (MW )              63.9     73.5      94.4    114.9    124.0        t8.i        150.0    183.0    224.0   274.0    336.0          22.3       384.o    439.0    502.0    573.0    655.0          14 .3
Anno-I Oro-th (')               27.3     15.0      28.4     21.7      7.9         -          22,0      22 0     22.4      22.3     22.6         -          14.3      14.3     14.4      14.1     14.3         -
Load Fsctor ''9)                  51.4     52.3      51.2     51.4     5'4.t                    54.3     53.0     52.5      52.5     50.8         -          54.4      52.7     51.1      49.6     48.8         -
IT.  EAST ZONP
Sales  whU)
Domestic                       i04.6    114.8    142.2    156.2    111.5         14.1       207.7    215.0    237.5    252.8    302.9           9.9       332.O    370.9    404.2    437.1    478.2           9.6 6     1
Commercial                      57.8     93.8     93.7    104.2    159.'J        29.0       211.8    242.1    272.8    301.6    346.6         13.1        377.2    423.2    467.3    506.4    558.4          10.3        2
indiostry                      514.8    519.9    6o8.3    639.4    641,o          5.6       797.9   920.0  1,065.9  1,185.1  1,437.5          15.8      1,595.6  1,713.7  1,872.6  2,055.7  2,278.5           9.3      a M
Agricult-re                     17.6      26.7      11.2    41.7     27.1        i1.4         50.9     57.9     63.o     66.2      771.1        11.0       79.8      86.7     90.2      94.0     99.0         5.5      '
RhB                              -        -         -        -        -           -           -        3.4      19.8     52.6     94.3           -        192.5    360.5    479.4    579.0    654.8          36.0      0
Other                           19.8     18.2     52.9      62.5     35.7        15.9        48.o      62.8     58.1     31.0      30.8          -         33.8      35.9     39.0      41.6     43.6         6.6
Total                        tPCt    773.4    908.3  1,004.0  1,041 2           9 9     1,316.3  1,501 .    1,727.1  1798775  2,289.2        i4.8    2,710.9  2,990.9  3,352.7  3,713.8 4    ,il      2.5  12.0
Ahna5l  mr4lft (h )            7.7      7.2      11.4     10.5      9.2         9.9        20.1      i4.i     i4.4     10.0      21.2          _         14.1      i4.6     12.1      i0.8     10.7         -
,l,ooses (GWh)                   398.6    450.0    535.4    391.4    687.8          -         582.7    6oo.8    611.9    "'12.7    721.8           _        813.1    797.1    84i.3    931.2  1,031.5           -
(3;)                       35.8     36.8     3.1      37.3     36.6         -          30.7     28.6      26.3     27.4      24.o         _          23.8     21.0      20.1     20.1      20.1         -



Trend                                                         Trend                                                         Trend
Year Ending June 30                  1976      1977     1978     1979      1980     1976-1980      1981      1982     1983      1984     1985      1981-1985     1986      1987      1988     1989      1ggo     1986-1ggo
-------------- Historic-------            --       %       ----- --------------Forecast------------------        %       -------------------Forecast------------------ -
Generation (GWh)
Diesel                           o.4       o.6      o.6      o.4       o.4         -           -         -        -         -        -           -           -         -
Combustion Turbine              62.4     70.9    136.0    150.0    101.6         13.0         91.0    123.0    153.0    226.0    210.0         23.3        153.0    117.0    176.0    176.0    356.o          23.5
Combined Cycle (Combustion
Turbine and Steam)             -        -         -        -         -          -            -        -       316.0    516.0    474.o         -          396.o    316.0    236.0    236.0    236.0    (-)13.8
Steam                          558.0    715.6    801.4    871.0  1,027.0         16.5      1,208.0  1,279.0  1,417.0  1,702.0  2,406.0         18.8      3,293.0  3,910.0  4,457.0  4,758.0  5,384.0          13.1
Hydro                          492.4    436.3    505.7    580.0    600.0          5.1        600.0    700.0    800.0    800.0    800.0          7.5        800.0    900.0  1 000.0  1 000 0I1 000 0            5.7
Total                      1,113.2   ,3                1,43.14  1,729.0        11.7                ,1,89. 0 102.0 5,243.0 3,869.0  3,890.0   19.6      9761       217.00                                    10.7
Export to the West Zone          -         -        -        -         -           -           -         -      357.0    642.0    879.0          -       1,218.0  1,1455.0  1,675.0  1,525.0  1,834.o          -
Maximum Demand (MW)              219.8    253.4    287.3    319.0    348.o         12.2        392.0    436.o    485.0    539.0    600.0          11.2       686.o    783.0    895.0  1,022.0  1,168.0          314.2
Annual Growth (8)               12.1      15.3     13.4     11.0       9.1         -          12.6      11.2     11.2      11.1     11.3         -          14.3      14.1      14.3     14.2      14.3         -
Load Factor (%)                   57.8      55.1     57.4     57.3      56.7        -           55.3      55.0     54.8      55.1     57.3         -          57.0      55.2      53.5     51.9      50.3        -
INTERCONNECRED SYSTEMS
(West and East)
Sales (GWh)
Domestic                       123.0    137.2    172.3    196.9    221.6         15.9        263.7    282.1    318.2    361.5    425.4          12.7       474.9    521.5    568.3    619.6    683.4           9.5
Commercial                      83.9    121.2    126.0    139.9    197.3         23.8        263.6    304.9    350.5    401.6    450.4         14.3        498.o    549.8    606.1    659.1    731.5          10.1
Industry                       640.9    666.1    782.2    855.4    878.5          8.2      1,127.7  1,327.9  1,578.1  1,897.7  2,298.3         19.5      2,596.1  2,746.o  3,012.7  3,306.4  3,692.9           9.2
Agriculture                     19.5      33.2     14.2     55.2      34.8        15.6        68.8      80.0     89.3    100.8    115.9         13.9       125.2    133.3    138.6    146.7    158.0           6.0
REB                              -         -        .        -         -           -           -         5.8     29.6      78.8    142.7         -         304.6    549.3    731.8    884.5    999.5          34.5
Other                           25.9     23.4      78.6     82.2      51.8       17.8         55.0     72.2      65.8     38.2      39.2    (-) 8.8         43.1      44.o     47.2      50.6      52.6        5.1
Total                        893.2    981.1  1,173           6                 11.5      1,778.8  2,072.9  2,1431.5  2,878.7  3,6471.9       18.2         91.                                 ,7
Annual Growth (8)             11.1      9.8      19.6     13.3      10.0        -           21.7     16.5      17.3     18.4      20.6        -           i6.4      12.4     12.3      11.0      11.5        -
Losses (GWh)                     507.7    579.3    694.1    789.2    934.7           -         833.2    879.1    927.5    982.3  1,035.1           -       1,213.1  1,271.1  1,336.3  1,469.1  1,624.1            -
(%)                       36.2      37.1     37.1      37.2     40.3         -           31.9     29.8     27.6      25.4     23.0         -           23.1     21.9      20.8      20.6     20.4         -
Generation
Diesel                          13.6       6.2     30.4     73.8      52.4       40.1         26.0     26.0      32.0      32.0     32.0         5.3        32.0      32.0      32.0     32.0      32.0        -
Combustion Turbine             104.5    202.3    343.4    344.o    422.0         41.8        463.0    632.0    414.0    364.o    348.o    (-) 7.4          287.0    210.0    269.o    269.o    449.o          11.8
Combined Cycle (Combustion                                                                                                                                                                                               I >>
Turbine and Steam)             -        -         -        -         -          -            -        -       316.0    516.0    474.o         -          396.0    316.0    236.0    236.0    236.0    (-)13.8         ,  m
Steam                          790.4    915.6    987.9  1,121.0  1,242.0         12.0      1,523.0  1,594.0  1,797.0  2,149.0  2,853.0         17.0      3,740.0  4,357.0  4,904.0  5,590.0  6,225.0          13.6      ,0x
Hydro                          492.4    436.3    505.7    580.0    600.0           5.1       600.0    700.0    800.0    800.0    800.0           7.5       800.0    900.0  1 0000  1 000. 0   ,000.0           5.7        ro
Total                      1,400.9  1,5      1867.4  2,11.8  2,316.7           13.14     2,612.0  2,952.0  3,3590  3,861.0  14,507.0         114.6     5,255.0  5,815.0 3,41.0 7,56.04       7,942.0        1.
Maximum Demand (MW)                -         -        -         -        -           -           -         -      709.0    813.0    936.o          -       1,070.0  1,222.0  1,397.0  1,595.0  1,823.0           14.2     0
-  -  -  -  -  -        -        -         -       14.7      15.1        -           14.3     14.2      14.2      14.2     14.2         _ -
Load F'actor (%)                   _         -        -        -         -           -           -         -       54.1      54.2     55.0         -          56.1      54.3      52.6     51.1      49.7        -        a



BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Progress on Implementation of Rural Electrification Programme
under Project  ACRE Phase-I
I. INFRASTRUCTURE
Construction of Electrical Line in Miles              Construction of 33/11 kV Sub-station (Nos.4%)
Achievement up to                                      Achievement up to
Name of PBS            Target up to June, 81      June, 81        Sept., 81   Target up to June, 81                June, 81
Dacca PBS-I                   350                   367             424                  3                         3-100%
Rajshahi PBS-I                200                   125             274                  1                         1-100%
Comilla PBS-I                 350                   296             422                  2                         2-100%
Jessore PBS-II                250                   207             338                  2                         2-100%
Pabna PBS-III                 250                   101             245                  1                         1-100%
Sylhet PBS-II                 250                    56             144                  3                         2-100%
1-95%
Jessore PBS-I                   50                   49             110                  2                         1-100%
1-65%
Tangail PBS-I                 100                    16              82                  2                         2-100%
Comilla PBS-Il                  50                     6             44                  2                         1-95%
1-50%
Rajshahi PBS-II                 50                     -              1                  1                         1-85%
Pabna PBS-Il                    50                                    1                  1                         1-85%
Sylhet PBS-I                    50                                    2                  1                         1-30%
Pabna PBS-I                                                                              1                         1-15%               O 
Total                     2,000                 1,223 -         2,198                 22                
1/  Excluding 800 miles of erected poles without conductor.



II.  PBSs'METER CONNECTIONS
Actual Connections on May 30, 1981
Domestic &                                      Street         Total    Target up to
Startup Date            PBS         Commercial    Irrigation        Industries    Lighting        Actual    May 30, 1981
June 2, 1981          Dacca I          2,940            36              65             37          3,078          3,700          1
January 1, 1981        Commilla I      1,434             5               2             18          1,459          2,900         vn
February 2, 1981       Jessore II        705             -               6             30            741          1,600
March 14, 1981         Rajshahi I        808            12              18             16            854          1,100
April 14, 1981         Patna III         565             4              13             18            600          1,300
Total        6,452           57              104           119           6,732        10,600
OQz
(D M
o Uw
r'



BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Irrigation Pumps in Existence 1975 - 1980 (Nos.)
Shallow Tubewells
Deep Tubewells              Diesel                 Electric                 Low-lift  Pumps
Year       Diesel   Electric    BADC1/  BKB2/  Total    BADC1/  BKBI/  Total          Diesel          Electric
1975/76     3,828        -       2,162   1,802  3,963       -        -        -       36,382
1976/77     4,461        -       3,045   2,357  5,402       -        -        -       28,361             -
1977/78     7,013       440      6,447   5,878 12,325       -        -        -       35.863            867
1978/79     8,785       544      8,379   8,596 16,975       -        -        -        34,736        1,159
1979/80     9,115       860     11,280  11,766 23,046       -       21       21       35,253          2,136
1/ BADC - Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation Finance.
BKB - Bangladesh Krishi Bank Finance.
Source:  REB
2:



ANNEX 5
_ 47 _                                        .         Page I of 2
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Rural Electricity Demand Projection (Calendar Years)
I. CONNECTION FORECAST (Nos.)
Consumer Category               1982      1983       1984       1985        1986       1987       1988       1989          1990
Residential                     8,493    41,227    100,336    206,920    397,769!   641,*82    827,000       965,000    1,121,000
Commercial                      1,741     8,451     20,569     42,418     81,542    131,506    169,000       198,000      231,000
Deep Tubewell                      43       202        496      1,109       2,087      3,318      4,230        4,900        5,680
Shallow Tubewell                   88       452      1,090      2,265      4,313      6,856       8,570       10,000       11,800
Low-lift Pump                      48       245        592      1,234       2,350      3,801      4,890        5,760        6,630
Small Industry                     53       289        755      1,728      3,367      5,539       7,670        9,190       10,800
Medium Industry                     5        37         85        109         149        189        210          210          210
Total                          10,471    50,903    123,923    255,783    491,577    792,691  1,021,570    1,193,060    1,387,120
II. LOAD FORECAST (kW)
Consumer Category              1982       1983      1984      1985       1986      1987      1988        1989       1990
Residential                    1,359     6,596     16,054    33,107    63,643    102,637    132,300    154,400    179,400
Commercial                       348     1,690      4,114     8,484    16,308     26,301     33,800      39,600     46,200
Deep Tubewell                    645     3,030      7,440    16,635    31,305     49,770     63,450      73,500     85,200
Shallow Tubewell                 264     1,356      3,270     6,795    12,939     20,568     25,700      30,000     35,400
Low-lift Pump                    240     1,225      2,960     6,170    11,750     19,005     24,450      28,800     33,150
Small Industry                 1,060     5,780     15,100    34,560    67,340    110,780    153,400    183,800    216,000
Medium Industry                  150     1,110      2,550     3,270     4,470       5,670      6,300      6,300      6,300
Total (Non-Coincidental
Peak Demand)                 4,066    20,787     51,488   109,021   207,755    334,731    439,400    516,400    601,650
Coincidental Peak Demand       3,253    16,630     41,190    87,217   166,204    267,785    351,520    413,120    481,320
III. ENERGY FORECAST (MWh)
Consumer Cstegory           1982      1983      1984      1985      1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
Residential                4,077    19,789    48,161    99,322    190,929    307,911     397,000   463,000      538,000
Commercial                   836     4,056     9,873    20,361     39,140     63,123      81,000    95,000      111,000
Deep Tubewell                943     4,432    10,883    24,333     45,800     72,800      93,000   108,000     125,000
Shallow Tubewell             243     1,250     3,014     6,263     11,950     18,990      24,000    28,000      33,000
Low-lift Pump                442     2,258     5,455    11,371     21,670      35,050     45,000    53,000      61,000
Small Industry             1,099     5,992    15,654    35,828     69,800    114,800    161,000   193,000      227,000
Medium Industry              210     1,554     3,570     4,578      6,258       7,938      9,000     9,000       9,000
Total                      7,850    39,331    96,610   202,856    385,547    620,612    810,000   949,000   1,104,000



-48 -                                ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
IV. ASSUMPTIONS
Average      Average annual          Coincidence
Load          energy consumption    factor at
(kW)             (kWh)            peak load time
1.  Residential               0.16              480         )
2.  Commercial                0.20              480         )
3.  Deep Tubewell            15.0            21,941         )
4.  Shallow Tubewell          3.0             2,765         )        0.8
5.  Low-lift Pump             5.0             9,215         )
6.  Small Industry           20.0            20,734         )
7.  Medium Industry          30.0            42,000         )
Residential and Commercial load operate between 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Irrigation load operates between 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Industrial load operates between 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
80% of all load will be operating at time of peak demand.



- 49 -                            ANNEX 6
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Timing and Financing of ACRE Program
PBSs       Implementation           Secured and Expected
Number            Period             Foreign Finance
Source      US$ million
Stage I                13          1978-1983             USAID           70.00
Stage II                8          1981-1987             KFAED           29.60
4          1981-1987            USAID           50.00
7          1982-1988            IDA             40.00
1          1982-1988
Stage III              14          1983-1989
Stage IV               20          1984-1990
Stage V                20          1985-1991
Total               84
Source: REB



- 50 -
ANNEX 7
BANG LADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
ORGANIZATION CHART
PEE     -E~El-EED TRAIN                                                                                                                                          ENGINEERI
DIRE.TOR .TRE  -LCT                      D      N     EE|
PBS  0E       TRIADECIOC         PEIOROR
O EPU  ECTVTIDDT I LDECTY SERETPRYI                                    V REUYDRCORIjDPT  IRETTOR I D CEPArT TIRECETOR    DEPUTY TIRERTOE1  DEPrTV DIRE CTOR I  TEPUTYDRA CO  I     eUYDRCO                  OEUYDR      EPUTY DIRE CTODRI     DEPAUTYOECO    DIRECTOR DEPS IECO
PETONINO               ELAM                     lU               PLGO ROAD I            MONT SEMV     [I   COETRTEERTEER  J|IPITEONALATEIT |         LOANSE REIE                                                 [1 OAPCRT    US.P    DTESIGNESSTND    E7CTLRNC MVNT  |   | CDNETN  ||TIMBER PRDDUCTSN
PRMNI    I D PUT  lEATGIIDPT SECRETARVI       DPTYIRECTOR   I        R EPT IRECTORD        TIRT DRETO IROEU1MDRS:TR1YTEPTYDRETO  IREAR.YDIECD  IEREPTYDIECORI& EPTYAIECDRITODPUYEIECORIACTIEGIEE
DEPUITY SIEECTOI D   E(1YECEAI             DPUYIRTR I .          DPTYOIROTTOR          A  EPUTYEDIRECYTORI IDPTDREORI_SSAND RETD                                                                                  l.T      2TO          I   DEPARTY DIRECTOR EIOND
7 OCTAE TATION                                                         R  ESNE      7 PED I7 MG TONS.  I O EMBE SETRVIPS | ONATRFGACEIIRER                                                                                   D MONIDRIN  1CTLRHES-ECA              PRJC DIVIION
_|DEEIITTEIOECTTOR  ~                                                  0 _SITNDR.ECTTOR  ETETUY DIRECTOR      DEUC TEEO                                                 LODEPAUTYDIRECTORI
I LIA SON                                                             EORN   O65ISCI I    RATES     I                                                                                                                                         INSPECTION  I
_ACCDUNTANTLE~E






BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICAITION  IiUJECJT'
Bangladesh Rural Electrification Board
Numbers of Sanctioned and Actual Staff
*Top Management         Middle Management          Professionals             Support-staff                Total
Sanctioned  Actual    Sanctioned  Actual    Sanctioned  Actual    Sanctioned  Actual    Sanctioned  Actual
Chairman's Office                                  1          1                                    1           1             4          4            6            6
Secretary                                          1          _            4           3           10          10           42          35           57           48
Directorate Program                                                        I -  1      -            -                        5           -            7
Member Engineering                                 I          1            -           _            1           1             3          4            5            6
Chief Engineer                                    1                       -                        -          -             3           3            4            4
Evaluation Cell                                    -          -            1           1            3           3             2          2            2            6
'limber Products Office                            -                        1         1            6           4            3           5           10           10
Superintending - Construction                                 1            1           1            1           1             4          5            7            8
Project Division                                   _          _            6           6           12          12           66          60           84           78       1
Directorate Planning & Design                      1          1            3           3            6           6             8          7           18           17
Feasibility Study                                  -          -            1           1           11           7             7          3           19           11 
Directorate - Equipment and
Material                           1          1             1          1            2           2            14         12           18           16
Warehouses                        1/               -          -            3           3            5           5           63          52           71           66
Directorate - System Operation                     i          1            2          1             5           5           17           8           25           15
Member Finance                                     1          1            -           -            1           1             3          3            5            5
DirecturaWT -Eini.ancc                             1          1            3          3            18         15            20          22          42            41
Audit                                              -          -            1           1            2           2            9                       12
Directorate - PBS Loans & Audit                    1          1            2          2             6          4            10           4          19            11
Directorate - Pro^:urement                         1          1            2          1             4          4             6           6           13           12
Member PBS                                         1          1            -          _             1           1            3           3            5            5
Directorate - Training                             1          1            3          2             7           6           18          12          29            21
Directorate - Management Opera-
tion            2/                 1          1            4          4            11         10             9           8           25           23
Directorate - PBS Development                      1          1            3          2             3           3            7           7          14            13
Others                                                                     1          -             9          -             -           -            3            -
TOTAL                             17         15           43         36                      103           326         271         504           425
* Top Management          Full-tine Members of the Board of Directors and Director's Level.
Middle Management    Deputy Directors
Professional           U Jniversity Graduates Below Deputy Directors Level.
1/ Excludiing Field Engineers
2/ Excluding two Development Team Members



- 52 -                           ANNEX 9
BANGLADESH                           Page 1 of 2
RU'AL FLECTRTFTCATION PROJECT
Training Activity Report
Up to April 1981
ORGANIZATION                                   PARTICIPANTS
1.  REB                                            567
2.  PBS                                           1413
3.  Consulting Firms                               100
4.  Construction Firms & Contractors               418
5.  PDB                                             40
Total       2538
*  Total Types of Course             =  28
*  Total Nos. of Courses             = 146
*  Total Nos. of Participants        =2538
*  PBS trained Electricians          =1833
* Total Electricians Certified by
REB to do house wiring              953



- 53 -                           ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Rural Electrification ,oard (REB)
Training Courses Up to April 1981
Name of the Course
1. General REB Orientation
Seminar for REB Officers
2.  Orientation Course of GM and AGM
of PBS
3. Distribution System Design and
Construction
4. Distribution of Line Staking
5. Rural Electric Distribution System
and Design & Construction
6. Inspectors Orientation Course
7. Line Construction Orientation
8. Contractor Lineman and Foremen
Training
9. Timber Specialist Orientation
10. PBS Lineman's Training (Basic Part I)
11. PBS Lineman's Training (Basic Part II)
12. Jeep Driver Training
13. Driver Skill Training
14. Heavy Equipment Operators Course
15. Warehouse Management
16. House Wiring Course
17. Advanced Electrician Course
18. Uniform System of Accounts & CPR
19. Management-Nature & Scope
20. Billing Supervisor's Course
21. Work Order Procedure
22. Orientation Workshop for AGM (GS)
23. New PBS Directors Orientation Course
24. Planning & Organization Seminar for
PBSs.
25. Policy Development Workshop
26. Understanding Financial Reports
27. AGM(M/S) Workshop
28. Staking Sheet Preparation



54 -                                      A1NNEX  10
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Selection Criteria for Areas to be Electrified
The criteria employed by REB (developed jointly by REB and NRECA
with USAID approval) to study, rank, and select new areas of the country
for electrification, place emphasis on infrastructure and numbers of potential
consumers. The steps followed by REB in identifying priority areas are as
follows:
(i)   Selection of a large number of prospective thanas for
detailed study: these areas are distributed throughout
the country to achieve regional balance in the initial
stages of identification.
(ii)   Collection of detailed data for each thana (or group of
thanas) covering the following subjects:
- available power supply: this covers available MW capacity
on 132 (32 KaV substations, after assessing total installed
transformer capacity and maximum demand at the substation,
and capacity of 33 kV lines;
- number of villages in the area;
- area population;
- number of households;
- area in square miles;
- miles of paved road in the area;
- percentage of land area likely to be flooded
regularly;
- number of institutions (bank branches, extension
offices, etc.) in the area;
- extent of irrigated land;
- numbers of tubewells and diesel-driven pumps,
covering shallow and deep tubewells, and low-lift
pumps;
- number of commercial establishments; and
- number of small, medium, and large industries.
(iii)   Each major infrastructure and consumer potential indicator is
ranked among areas, using a straight numeral ranking beginning
with 1 for the top area in the category, after eliminating those
areas that do not have surplus substation and 33 kV line capacity.
Weighting factors, developed in the Phase I feasibility study and
ranging from 0.3 to 1.0., are then applied to the rank of each
category. The sum of the adjusted ranks of categories for each
area constitutes that area's final overall ranking: the lowest
number represents the highest overall rank.
(iv)   If an extreme regional imbalance emerges from the strict ranking
procedure, constraints representing regional equity considerations
are applied, i.e. a minimum number of areas per region is observed.



BANG LAD ESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF PALLI BIDYUT SAMITIES
(LESS THAN 30,000 CONNECTIONS)
| MEMBERS       |
|BOARD OF DIRECTORS|
ENGINEERING      __      ^LEGAL ADVISOR
CONSU LTANT_
GENERAL MANAGER
|-STENO-TYPIST
AGM GENERAL SERVICES       AGM CONSTRUCTION              AGM FINANCE             AGM EXTENSION AND
AND MAINTENANCE                                       MEMBER SERVCIES
GENERAL SERVICES            MAINTENANCE                ACCOUNTING                   MEMBER
AND OPERATION                                          EDUCATION
ADMINISTRATIVE                MINOR                    BILLING AND                POWER USEn
CONSTRUCTION                COLLECTION
MATERIAL                   REPORTS                   CONSUMER
AND STORES                                            SERVICES
METER
MAINTENANCE                STENO TYPING               COMPLAINTS
-|   MOTOR POOL    l  -|    CLERICAL                HHOUSE WIRING
METER READING |
ot1z
(Dt
WI-
World Bank - 23123        N






BANG LAD ESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF PALLI BIDYUT SAMITIES
(30,000 to 50,000 CONNECTIONS)
I     MEMBERS
| BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ENGINEERING    I       _
CONSU LTANT    j 
GENERAL MANAGER
(  STENO-TYPIST
AGM GENERAL SERVICES        AGM CONSTRUCTION             AGM FINANCE               AGM ENGINEERING          AGM EXTENSION AND
AND MAINTENANCE                                          AND STORES              MEMBER SERVICES
MAINTENANCE                             ~~~~~~~~RIGHT OF VVAY         MEMBER
GENERAL SERVICES            AND OPERATION               ACCOUNTING               PROCUREMENT AND               EDUCATION
C LEAR NING
ADMINISTRATIVE                    MINOR       1           BILLING AND                                1           POWER USE      ,
ADMINISTRATIVECONSTRUCTION]J                    COLLECTION    II                                   _________
0  4  PERSONNEL  I    1q     METER                    REPORTS                 PROCUREMENT AND               CONSUMER 
PERSONNEL          ~~MAINTENANCE                                          WAREHOUSING                  SERVICES     J
MOTOR POOL    J            STENO TYPING   J                                       COMPLAINTS
CLERICAL                                             HOUSE WIRING
METER READING  1
I'd
(D -
World Bank - 23124



BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Rural Electrification Board - REB
PBSs: Record of Operations
Dacca I              Comilla I            Rajshahi I              Pabna                Jessore
June 2, 1980         January 1, 1981       March 14, 1981       April 14, 1981       February 2, 1981
a.  Membership and Connections              to Sept. 30, 1981   to August 31, 1981   to Oct. 31, 1981   to Oct. 31, 1981   to August 31, 1981   Total
Membership (Perspective
Number of Consumers)                       35,000                 95,000                32,000                37,000               47,000            246,000
Number of connections                         4,562                   2,754                 1,313                1,452                1,127             11,208
Average new consumer
connections per month                         285                     306                   175                  223                  161                262
b.  Billing and Collection
Consumers to be billed
during last month                           3,895                  2,029                  1,133                1,061                  803              8,921
Consumers billed during
last month                                  3,713                  1,930                 1,080                   977                  754              8,454
Percentage-billing/
consumers                                      95%                     95%                   95%                  92%                  94%                 95%
Total sales-till the
last month (Tk'000)                         1,702                    431                    417                  223                  151              2,924
Total collections
(Tk 000)                                    1,279                    274                    301                  197                  129              2,180
Percentage/collection/
sales (excluding last
15 day billing)                                81%                    80%                    77%                 100%                  95%                 83%
Outstanding sales
(Tk'O0O)                                      423                    157                    116                   26                   22                744
Sales (MWh)                                   1,545                     390                   403                  247                  151              2,736
Average Tk/kWh                                     1.10                   1.11                  1.03                 0.90                  1.00               1.07



PRIORITY RANKING ut rB Ss OF A.C.R.E. PHA:SE-11 PROJECT
DVCCA  DIVISION                                                   CHiTTAGONG  DIVISION                                          R AJSHAHI  DIVISION                                                   KH__  91NA4  DIVISION
-JM0ALP2    -WA-BE      -H-I _S0I G7__SSAC4A4..ACCA  DACOS  24222    PANI-PUSAPASIAP-S                                                          -         BMIGP4-BRG1A4S        B2PA-N-A   B.AIAL -U.I    I                                                         .J
Is5 -I    PA -I  PS-I1 --ll      P.S-Il"     7          5-        S-          Al       P _N-l     PAN-Il   PBSV         .SS,,'PB-ll           PB-. BS-.        I B,II          PBS II      B - II    PBS, IA     PSI         B           B-I       B-l       PSI        B-IA
PRIORITY                           p                                                                a         A           2          12        A          a          4           A           IAI.I                                                                                          
-PIYEROSUPPLY(VV-ISIOMWI )-                                    -45            5          2           4         0          GAS       42          A.N4 -                            N          t                                4                      aS          p        25         33I
PR  ,1                             B         -                      I         -          IA        IS         I           17         IS        A          5         IISII
ROADSklm-fNop.2dr24l              PA        42          7 5d2                             B         N         IA          24          V 4      1         14         N    _       IA         AR         4           A         Na.        IA           ISA        I4        45        s2oS                  A
PRIORITY                          4                                                                            2          I          I         aI                                            IIS                                                                                     1          IS        lB
HIOUSEHOLDIpo I                 INASS      I2 44       1-5        1755-      AlA        633        I,G4       SN        11-87       SSS       IA...     I254        40-4        11.W.      4254        -0ANO    212354_   P,eAS                               - 153  AIG BAl  123A ASO41    .3
PRIORITY                          1.         -4                               -            4I       A          a          N          S         I          a          I            N12It                                                                                               VI                  I1 
4 SMALL INDUSTRY(74  I             Al          93- 3                                        -P  N     SI       12          VOl        -5        1415       -4         A           557          72       AB           A         41         GB21                    A        15lA                  3          7
5PRIORITY                           A                                            -          4          V        I            2~         I        N          4         IS            B           A                                                                                 7              II         IS4
IIASTmUTlcONS(-21NV_                         2           2         14         2           I         0          74         4N        13          4         3         310          NAB 34.593 55                               54         NSA         BB          S         5           A        S     
a   PRIORITY                                     -                                            4         I          .           NS        A                    4          IN          BI          AI I                                                                                    SIa14
PUJMPSaTLABEWELLS Insl            71         194  -    PAl         1242      AG          a4        we        52                     IAN       1441       411        I8            4          1         170`      lAsS"        0          I          B           5    4 P              A        O          1
PRIORITY                          S                                                       4         I                      A          N         S                                             Ap I                                                                                    AI                  lB
7
COMMERO1AL  SHIOPSI4A            BIAN       7442        445       3127       22244      1147       3712       82         334       AS -        2312     322.        SAAB1       5.58                  057 --         0N       G        A30                      a         S      
PRIO ITY                          4           -          -          I          -          4         4          N           7         7N4                        4                 3                                                                                                              
43  1E2                                                                                                                                                                                          -                    INa4LARG  INDUSTR-                                                           Io12
_ PRIORITY                           2                                            N          A         I 4                   V1        IN        IC          A         II           7           N4                                                     I                                  
VFLODING{%I                        AG          2          42         0          42          5         P2         7          NO         A         44        44         52           33                    S.2  5      2    2              62    -    B             B.        SN         24        2          IA
IPoABNPL4               44          54          -          -         77          -        4           4          7         1 70                   A        42         2           2                                 4A
2422                        7                                -         7                   IS           7       145         42            5         N        5          0                        -                                                      237                                         13G
SANOENTAL       ~~0 A-                                       4A          -        14          7         0410                    24        14       NA        II 2          041        B A5                                                                                    I A__  0  S  Y  2      4
mqf06-2                                             -         2                     5           0I4                 92         V          IA        2          ASo         No A      I I 46                                                                                      
E1441A07105   I 22              -         40          -       14-        ,2V       ~~~~         ~~~       ~~~~       ~~~      ~ ~~~~~~~~110 5   4  24  40  190 I   42AA                                                                          445
"DA..GLA-G3 INAUNTRY   240-                                        V0            -       35          54                                                               54           - 7 4             -3 3I5                                                                                               2
~~  PLOOSISA  2 30                 -        5 4           -       2 7        4 2       2 A         4 4        5 A       44        I A         5 3         2 I         I~~~II  0  2                                                                  2 4       12         IN        4
.1    ~ ~ ~ ~               25           -      712        451        I4          54          4         2         57        GA           47         7322                             7A                        15B                          50         64        AN
~FINAL PRIORITY 4AN413G   j                                                                            S                                                                0                                                       S9                                                 [    I          4I
-11 IIPIIY 2 Ill~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5ASA I -- *






- 59 -                              ANNEX 14
BANGLADESII
RURAL ELECTRIFICAT:[ON PROJECT
PBS Areas and Thanas :In the Project
PBS Name                                          Thanas
Dacca II                                          Rupganj
Narshingdi
Araihazar
Baidyarbazar
Faridpur II                                       Rajoir
Madaripur
Kalkhini
Noakhali II                                        Ramganj
Begumganj
Senbagh
Raipur
Chittagong II                                     Fatikehari
Raozan
Rangunia
Khulna II                                         Mollarhat
Fakirhat
Bagerhat
Kachua
Barisal II                                        Gournadi
Uzirpur
Babuganj
Jhalkathi
Kushtia II                                        Gangni
Meherpur
Alamdanga



ANNEX 15
-60-                                Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule (Calendar Years)
I. Procurement
Tranche 1       Tranche 2       Tranche 3       Tranche 4
Bid Invitation             1982            1983            1983            1985
August          March           August          January
Bid Opening                1982            1983            1983            1985
November        June            November        April
Award Contracts            1983            1983            1984            1985
February        September       February        July
Delivery                   1983            1984            1984            1986
50%                    August          March           August           January
50%                    1983             1984            1984            1986
November        June            November        April
II.   PBS Land Acquisition and Headquarters Sites:  3rd and 4th quarters 1983.
III.  Detailed PBS Feasibility Studies:  3rd quarter 1983 to 1st quarter 1984.
IV.   PBS Headquarters Construction:  1st quarter 1983 to 4th quarter 1984.
V.    PBS Establishment and Membership Drive:  1st quarter 1984 to 3rd quarter 1985.
VI.   PBS Line Design:  2nd quarter 1984 to 1st quarter 1986.



VII. Proposed Construction Schedule
(Miles of Line by Category/Substations Energized)
Calendar Year                         1984               1985                   1986                   1987            1988
quarter             2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4            1    2    3    4        1     Total
Three Phase                       85   24  49   101  101  28   58   101  101  28   58   58   51   10   35   85                  973
Single Phase                      67   18  38    76   76  22   43    76   76  22   43   52   39   11   28   67                  749
Secondary                         59   17  34   118  118  33   67   177  175  51  102  235  234   67  134   59                1,680
TOTAL              211   59 121   295  295  83  168   354  352 194  203  345  324   88  192  211                3,402
Substations                        0    0   3       3    4   0    4        0    0  0       0    0    0    0    0    0             14
o
o U'



- tiL-
ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 4
VIII. Connection Targets in Seven PBS Areas under the Project (Nos.)
Residential/
Commercial         Irrigation       Industrial    Total Meters
June 1985                 5,272                139              90           5,501
December 1985            13,276               354              207          13,837
June 1986                19,914               531              311          20,756
December 1986            26,551               707              414          27,672
June 1987                39,823               980              456          41,259
December 1987           53,095              1,253              498          54,846
June 1988                70,792             1,579              582          72,953
December 1988 1/         88,488             1,904              665          91,057
June 1989               96,905              2,097              809          99,811
December 1989           105,322             2,289              952         108,563
June 1990               113,740             2,482            1,096         117,318
December 1990           122,157             2,674            1,239         126,070
1/ Project investment target reached. Further connections to be implemented
with own PBS funds.



- 63 -                                ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 4
IX. Average PBS Area under the Project
A. Area Characteristics
Households                                                       136,899
Deep Tubewells                                                       142
Shallow Tubewells                                                    299
Low Lift Pumps                                                       307
Small Industries                                                     426
Medium/Large Industries                                                6
Area (squ. miles)                                                    405
B. Base Systemn Design (5th Year)
Connections:
Residential                                                  10,490
Commercial                                                    2,151
Deep Tubewell                                                    65
Shallow Tubewell                                                134
Low Lift Pump                                                    73
Small Industry                                                   89
Medium/Large Industry                                             6
System Configuration:
Three Phase Primary Line (Mi)                                   139
Single Phase Primary Line (Mi)                                  107
Secondary Line (Mi)                                             240
Line Rehabilitation (Mi)                                        178
Substations (No.)                                                 2
Source: REB/NRECA



-64-
ANNEX 16
Page I of 4
BANGLADESH
Rural Electrification Project
Project Cost
I. Summary of Project Cost (Tk Million)
Total
Foreign                  Excluding
Direct       Local      Duties and    Duties and
Component  Component       Taxes           Taxes          Total
Line Materials                372.8        9.5         382.3          74.0           456.3
Connections                    60.8        -            60.8          11.5            72.3
Street Lighting                 0.7        -             0.7           0.1             0.8
Substations                   67.2         -            67.2          11.0            78.2
Spares                          4.5        -             4.5           0.9             5.4
General Plant                   -         55.0          55.0           -              55.0
Support
Commodities                    31.6        -            31.6           3.6            35.2
Line
Installation                    -         66.2          66.2           -              66.2
Line
Rehabilitation                  -          6.2           6.2           -               6.2
Substation
Installation                    -          9.1           9.1           -               9.1
Engineering &
Supervision                     -         28.0          28.0           -              28.0
Insurance                       -          5.1           5.1           -               5.1
Landing Charges
& Transport                     -         30.6          30.6                          30.6
REB Overhead                    -         _3.5           3.5           -               3.5
Subtotal I                   537.6       213.2         750.8        101.1            851.9
Physical
Contingency l/                 39.7       16.0          55.7           7.6            63.3
Subtotal II                  577.3      229.2          806.5        108.7            915.2
Price
Contingency                   142.6       72.6         215.2         26.9            242.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST       719.9      301.8       1,021.7         135.6         1,157.3
Interest Capitalized           -           4.4           4.4          -                4.4
TOTAL FINANCING
REQUIREMENT                719.9      306.2       1,026.1         135.6         1,161.7
1/ 7.5%



-65-
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 4
II. Estimated Annual Disbursement of Project Flnds
(Tk million, calendar years)
Foreign                                          1983      1984      1985      1986     TOTAL
Construction Commodities                         176.9    109.7    109.7    109.7    506.0
Support Commodities                               2().3     11.3       -         -        31.6
Physical Contingency                              14.2       8.8       8.3       8.4      39.7
Price Contingency I'                              34.0      32.5      36.3      39.8    142.6
SUB-TOTAL                                   245.4    162.3    154.3    157.9    719.9
Local
Construction Commodities                          42.0      22.5       -         -       64.5
Installation & Engineering                        32.9      32.8      27.4     16.2    109.5-/
REB Overhead                                       .L.4      1.0       0.9       0.2       3.5
Landing Charges, Transport,
Insurance                                        13.6      17.1       -         -       35.7
Duties and Taxes                                  52.9      48.2       -         -      101.1
Physical Contingency                              1L.2       9.1       2.1       1.2      23.6
Price Contingency 1/ 2/                           36.4      41.4      12.6       9.1     99.5
SUB-TOTAL                                   195.4    172.1       43.0      26.7    437.43/
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          440.8    334.4    197.3    184.6  1,157.3-/
1/  1982 - 8.0%, 1983 - 8.0%, 1984 - 7.5%, 1985 - 7.0%, 1986 - 6.0%
2/  Construction Commodities:  1982 - 15%, 1983 - 15%, 1984 - 13%, 1985 - 12%, 1986 - 11%,
1987 - 10%
3/  Including an amount of Tk 0.2 million for labor costs during 1987 and 1988 for
completion of construction and connection works.



-66-
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 4
III. Estimated Material Quantities and Costs (7 PBS areas)
Foreign             Local               Total
Item and Unit      Quantity       US$'000    Tk'000  US$'000  Tk'000  US$'000   Tk'O00
Conductor 4/0 ACSR          688           1,044      18,792    -          -      1,044    18,792
(Miles)  1/0 ACSR        1,908          1,482      26,676    -           -     1,482    26,676
#3  ACSR       5,000          2,058       37,044    -          -     2,058    37,044
#3  Duplex        52              15         270    -          -         15        270
#6  Duplex       760             578      10,404    -          -        578    10,044
#3  Quadruplex   20               53         954    -          -         53        954
1/0     "          8              38         684    -          -         38        684
Insulators (nos.)       180,816             212       3,816    -          -        212      3,816
Ground/Guy Wires Miles    512               257       4,626    -          -        257      4,626
Poles (Nos.)             66,976           7,317    131,706    -           -      7,317   131,706
Crossarms (Nos.)         18,256             227       4,086    -          -        227      4,086
Log Anchors (Nos.)       42,406             -           -      505      9,092      505      9,092
Conductor Accessories
(Lot)                        1            232       4,176    -          -        232      4,176
Connectors (Lot)               1             68       1,224    -          -         68      1,224
Misc. Hardware (Lot)           1          2,992      53,856    24         434   3,016    54,290
Transformers (KVA)       77,352           3,405      61,290    -          -      3,405    61,290
Voltage Regulators
(Nos.)                      96            324       5,832    -          -        324      5,832
Oil Circuit Reclosers
(Nos.)                     352            272       4,896    -          -        272      4,896
Tie Switches (Nos.)          36              56       1,008    -          -         56      1,008
Fused Sectionalizers
(Nos.)                   1,336              72      1,296    -          -          72     1,296
Connection Materials
(Nos.) Res/Commy.       88,488          3,100      55,800    -          -      3,100    55,800
STW/LLP          1,448              72       1,296    -          -         72      1,296
DTW/Industry    1,120              208       3,744    -          -        208      3,744
Street Lighting   700               40         720    -          -         40        720
Substations (Nos.)           14           3,735      67,230    -          -      3,735    67,230
Spares (Lot)                  1             252       4,536    -          -        252      4,536
General Plant (Lot)            7            -           -   3,053    54,957   3,053    54,957
Subtotal Construction
Commodities                           28,109    505,962 3,582    64,476  31,691   570,438
PBS Support Equipment
Boat 5HP (Nos.)            14              14         252    -          -         14        252
Jeep (Nos.)                 7              70       1,260    -          -         70     1,260
Pickup Truck (Nos.)        14             140       2,520    -          -        140     2,520
A Frame Truck (Nos.)        7              84         512    -          -         84        512
Heavy Duty Trailer (Nos.) 7                14         252    -          -         14        252
Pole Trailer (Nos.)         7              14         252    -          -         14        252
Tractor (Nos.)              7              70         260    -          -         70        260
Motorcycle (Nos.)         105             210       3,780    -          -        210      3,780
Tools (Set)                 7             175       3,150    -          -        175      3,150
Communic. Equipment
(Lot)                      7            350       6,300    -          -        350      6,300
Office Equipment (Lot)    7               350       6,300    -          -        350     6,300
Computers (No.)             7              65       1,170    -          -         65     1,170
Vehicle Spares (Lot)        1              80       1,440    -          -         80     1,440
Rest House Appliances
(Lot)                      7             42          756    -         -         42        756



-67-
ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 4
III. Estimated Material Quantities and Costs (7 P3S areas)
Foreign           Local                  Total
Item and Unit      Quantity  US$'000    Tk'OO   US$'000 Tk'OOO         US$'000   Tk'000
REB Support Equipment
Crane                      1          80       1,44)      -        -            80    1,440
Subtotal Support Equipment           1,758      31,644       -       -         1,758   31,644
Line Installation                      -           -     3,679   66,220        3,679   66,220
Line Rehabilitation                    -           -        342    6,160         342    6,160
Substation Installation                -           -        507    9,121         507    9,121
Engineering & Supervision              -           -     1,556   28,000        1,556   28,000
Insurance                              -           -       284    5,110          284    5,110
Landing and Transport                  -           -     1,699   30,590        1,699   30,590
REB Overhead                           -           -        194    3,500         194    3,500
Subtotal Misc. Costs                                     8,261  148,698        8,261  148,698
Subtotal Project Cost I             29,867    537,606  11,843  213,174        41,710  750,780
Physical Contingency                 2,208      39,741      888   15,988       3,096   55,729
Subtotal Project Cost II            32,075    577,350  12,731  229,158        44,806  806,508
Price Contingency                    7,925    142,650   4,033   72,600        11,958  215,250
Subtotal Project Cost III           40,000    720,000  16,764   30,758        56,764 1,021,758
Duties and Taxes                       -           -     7,533  135,600        7,533  135,600
GRAND TOTAL                      40,000    720,000  24,297  437,358       64,297 1,157,358



-68-
ANNEX 17
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA Financial                              ---------US$ Million----------
Year and Quarter                           Quarterly            Cumulative
1984        I                                  6                     6
II                                 7                    13
III                                 4                    17
IV                                 5                    22
1985        I                                 -5                    27
II                                 4                    31
III                                 -                    31
IV                                 -                    31
1986        I                                  -                   31
II                                 -                    31
III                                 4                    35
IV                                 5                   40



-69-                     ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 6
BANGLADESH
Rural Electrification Board
Assumptions Used in Financial Projection
1.      The financial projections of REB included in this report comprise the
actual figures FY1977/78-1979/80 and the projected operation for the
period FY1980/81 through FY1989/90.
It consists of the annual income statements, statements of
sources and applications of funds, and balance sheets as at
June 30 each year.
2.      The following assumptions have been made:
A. Income Statements
(i)  Other revenues mainly represent income from
renting construction equipnlent to PBSs and to
local contractors. These estimations are based
on actuals of FY1980/81 wit:h an annual increase of
about 2%.
(ii) Head office expenses includle REB's salaries and
administration expenses ancL depreciation which
are not part of the Development Plan.
B. Balance Sheet
(i) All GOB funds, provided to cover the local currency
requirement, are added to the equity. The USAID
grant portion for Phase I-a has also been added to
REB's equity.
(ii) Accounts payable consist oi: refundable security
deposits furnished by contractors.
(iii) Long-term loans to PBSs conisist of initial project
cost and expected finance of their future expansion.
(iv) Development plan (work in progress) represents work
under construction, projecl: stores, and other
capitalized expenses as at the end of every year.
On handing over a completed scheme to PBS, its
initial cost is transfered to PBS's long-term loan.



-70-
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 6
(v)  Short-term deposits represent the accumulation of
about 50% of the net internal sources of funds to be
invested as short-term deposits at an interest rate
of about 10%.
(vi)  Starting from FY1983/84 short-term loans to PBSs will
be about 40% of the net internal sources of funds.
Besides assisting PBSs to overcome future shortages of
cash, these loans are considered a source of financing
members' house-wiring and connections.
(vii) Price contingencies are considered in financing the
the Development Plan.
C. Onlending Terms
It is expected that the rates of interest that will be applicable
for donor fund onlending under the USAID-and KFAED-financed
projects will be as follows:
From GOB to REB         From REB to PBSs       Spread
GOB Grant                                                3%               3%
USAID Grant                     -                        3%               3%
USAID Loan                      2%  1/                   3%               1%
KFAED Loan                      2%                       3%               1%
1/ To be increased to 3% after a ten year grace period.



Rural Electrification Board (REB)
Actual and Forecast  Income Statements - FY 1977/78 - 1989/90
US$1 = Taka 18                                                                          (Thousands of Taka)
A C T U A L                                                                                 F O R E C A S T
1977/78     1978/79      1979/80       1980/81        1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88       1988/89      1989/90
Revenues
Interest on PBS' Loans                -            -            -            -            32.373        54,409      70,837       87,989        97,583      126,907      188,113      265,044      411,547
Interest on Investment                   86       1,108        1,747           360            500          700        1,300        2,100        3,200        4,700        7,100       13,500        24,000
Other Revenues                           25          266          486       1,200           1,224        1,248        1,273        1,300        1,325        1,351        1,378         1,406        1,434
Total Revenue                             111       1,374         2,233        1,560         34,097       56,357       73,410       21,389      102,108      132,958      196,591      279.950       436,981
Head Office Expenses
Administrative                         887        6,568        9,443       11,984         18,344        22,727      25,928        28,321       29,156       31,768       32,781       33,764        34,776
Depreciation                           -          1,188         1,799       1,320           2,256        8,332        8,674        9,132        9,088        7,891        8,432         6,854        3,142
Total Head Office Expenses               887        7,756       11,242       13,304         20,600        31,059      34,602        37,453       38,244       39,659       41,213       40,618        37,918
Operating income -  Secure f  ,lcr u.- ,
Borrowing              (776)      (6,382)      (9,009)    (11,744)         13,497       25,298       38,808        53,93q.      63,864       ,.,2,1      155,378      239,319       19 ()63
Interest on Borrowing                   -              270       2,073        4,690           9,853       16,296       22,444       28,377       31,735       48,921       79,571      118,167       181,837
Net Income                               (776)      (6,652)    (11,082)    (16,434)           3,644        9,002       16,364       25,559       32,129       44,378       75,807       121,165      217,166
Expenses (Including Interest) /Revenue                                        1,153           90%          84%          78%          72%          68%          67%          61%           57%          50Z
Percentage of Revenue
Interest Expense                      -            -            -             300          29           29           31            31           31           37           40           42           42
Head Office Expenses                  -            -            -              768          53          40            35           31           29           24           17            12            8
Depreciation                          -            -            -               84           7           15           12           10            9            6            4             3            1
Net Income                            -            -             -            -             11           16           22           28           31           33           39            43           49
Percentage of Average Total Assets                                                                                                                                                                          s<1
Total Revenue                         -            -            -           0.2             2.2          2.3          2.0          1.7          1.2          1.1          1.3           1.6          2.3     X
Interest Expense                      -            -            -           0.6            0.7          0.7          0.6           0.5          0.4          0.4          0.5          0.7           1.0   c ~
Gross Spread                          -            -            -            -              1.5          1.6          1.4          1.2          0.8          0.7          0.8           0.9          1.3
Head Office Expenses                  -            -            -           1.6             1.3          1.3         1.0           0.7          0.5          0.3          0.3          0.2           0.2
Net Income                            -            -            -            -              0.2          0.4          0.5          0.5          0.4          0.4          0.5           0.7          1.1



Rural Electrification Board (REB)
US$1 = Taka 18                                                  Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets - FY 1977/78 - 1989/90
(Thousands of Taka)
A C T U A L                                                                         FO R E C A S T
FY ends on June 30                   1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81         1981/82     1982/83      1983/84      1984/85       1985/86      1986/87      1987/88      1988/89      1989/90
Assets
Fixed Assets
Property and Equipment               5,715       12,780       16,973       15,041         55,545       57,825       60,878       64,225       67,642        71,248       74,248       77,248       80,248
Less - Accumulated Depreciation       -           1.188        2,987        5,307          6,563       14,895       23,569       32,701       41,789        49,680       58,112       64,966       68,108
Net Fixed Assets                     5,715       11,592       13,986       10,734         48,982       42,930       37,309       31,524        25,853       21,568       16,136       12,282       12,140
PBS' Long Term Loans                  -           2,003       11,490       31,565      1,133,055   1,985,939   2,908,481   4,442,225   5,401,657   9,208,852  12,953,816  16,091,761  18,674,921
Development Plan. Work in
Progress                          10,746       96,354      533,144   1,007,004         738,925      733,382   1,228,012   2,074,636   4,343,750   4,204,887   3,647,281   2,424,690             280,618
Current Assets
Cash                                 7,848        3,127        5,177        6,000          8,116       11,521        1,051           884        1,655        2,385        2,511       34,154      249,506
Short term deposits                  8,766       11,450       12,435        4,000          6,000        8,000       13,000       24,000        36,000       50.000       78,000      150,000      250,000   N
PBS' Short term finance               -            -            -            -               -           7,000      17,226       40,891        57,377       66,014      120,141      207,192      353,004
Other Current Assets                    146          752       2,044        2,000           2,000        2,000        2,500        2,500        2,500        3,000        3,000        3,000        3,000
Total Current Assets                16,760       21,329       19,656       12,000         16,116       28,521       33,777       68,275        97,352      121,399      203,652      394,346      855,510
Total Assets                           33,221     131,278      578,276   1,061,303        1,937,078   2,790,772   4,207,579   6,616,660   9,868,792  13,556,706  16.820,885  18,923,079  19j823,189
Equity and Liabilities
Equity
GOB contribution                    26,000      101,854      296,154      423,154        780,392      995,670   1,371,196   2,029,098   2,919,007   3,928,848   4,837.376   5,330,879   5.540,258
US Aid Grant                          -             -         29,594      375,488        612,000      612,000      612,000      612,000      612,000       612,000      612,000      612,000      612,000
Total Equity                        26,000      101,854      298,748      798,642      1,392,392   1,607,670   1,983,196   2,641,098   3,531,007   4,540,848   5,449,376   5,942,879   6,152,258
Accumulated Net Income                 (776)      (7,428)    (18,510)    (34,944)         (31,300)    (22,298)       (5,934)      19,625       51,754       96,132      171,939      293,104      510,270
NetEqu-ity                           25,224      94,426      280,238       763,698      1,361,092   1,585,372   1,977,262   2,660,723   3,582,761   4,636,980   5,621,315   6,235,983   6,662,528   s' |
Borrowing                             7,858      33,804      287,512      287,512        566,596   1,194,490   2,217,471   3,944,463   6,280,474   8,906,389  11,189,530  12,681,043  13,157,315   r
Current Liabilities                    139        3,048       10,526       10,093           9,390      10,910        12,846      11,474         5,557       13,337       10,040        6,053        3,346   ,
Total Equity and Liabilities           33,221      131,278      578,276   1,061,303       1,937,078   2,790,772   4,207,579   6,616,660   9,868,792  13,556,706  16,820,885  18,923,079  19,823,189
Debt/Equity                              -            -            -          27:73          29:71        42:58        52:48        60:48        64:36        66:34        67:33        68:32         68:32
(Equity including US Aid Grant)



Rural Electrification Board (REB)
US$1 = Taka 18
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds Statements - FY 1977/78 - 1989/90
(Thousands of Taka)
A C T U A L                                                                           F O R E C A S T
1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81        1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88       1988/89      1989/90
Sources
Internal Sources of Funds
Operating Income                       (776)     (6,382)       (9,009)    (11,744)         13,497       25,298       38,808       53,936       63,864       93,299      155,378      239,332       399,063
(Before interest on borrowing)
Depreciation                          -           1,188        1,799        1,320           2,256        8,332        8,674        9,132        9,088        7,891        8,432        6,854         3,142
Repayment of PBS' Loans                            -            -            -               -            -            -            -            -          19,313      152,758      262,293      403,110
Internal Sources of Funds                (776)     (5,194)      (7,210)    (10,424)         15,753        33,630      47,482       63,068        72,952      120,503      316,568      508,479      805,315
Debt Service
Amortization                          -                         -             -              -            -            -            -            -          24,919      101,747      197,683       313,572
Interest on Borrowing                 -             270        2,073        4,690           9,853       16,296      22,444        28,377       31,735       48,921       79,571      118,167      181,897
Total Debt Service                       -             270        2,073        4,690          9,853       16,296       22,444       28,377       31,735       73,840      181,318       315,850      495,469
Net Internal Sources of Funds            (776)      (5,464)      (9,283)    (15,114)          5,900       17,334       25,038       34,691       41,217       46,663      135,250       192,629      309,846
Capital Raised
US Aid Grant                          -            -          29,594      345,894        236,512          -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -
GOB Contribution to Equity          26,000       75,854      167,300      154,000        357,238      215,278      375,526      657,902       889,909   1,009,841       908,528      493,503       209,379
Borrowing                            7,858       25,946      253,708          -           279,084      627,084   1,022,981   1,726,992   2,336,011    2,650,834   2,384,888   1,689,196            789,844
Total Capital Raised                   33.858     101,800      450,602      499,894         872,834      843,172   1,398,507   2,384,894   3,225,920   3.660,675   3,293,416   2,182,699             999,223
Total Sources                          33,082      96,336      441,319      484,780         878,734      860,506   1,423,545   2,419,585   3,267,137   3,707,338   3,428.666   2,375,328   1,309,069
Applications
PBS' Loans Sanctioned                 -           2,003        9,487       20,075      1,101,490       852,884     922,542   1,533,744        959,432   3,826,508   3,897,722   3,400,238   2,986,270
Changes in Development)
Plan work in progress )             10,746       85,608      436,790      473,860        (268,079)      (5,543)    494,630       846,630   2,269,114      (138,863)   (557,606) (1,222,591) (2,144,072) ax l
REB's Capital Expenditure            5,715         7,065       4,193        (1,932)        40,504        2,280        3,053        3,347        3,417        3,606        3,000         3,000        3,000   X m
Changes in Working Capital                                                                                                                                                                                   u
other than cash                     8,773           381      (5,201)      (8,046)          2,703        7,480      11,001        36.037       34,403       15,357       85,424      163,038       248,519   o!
Changes in Cash                      7,848        1,279        (3,950)         823          2,116        3,405       (7,681)        (167)         771          730           126      31,643       215,352
Total Applications                     33,082      96,336      441,319      484,780         878,734      860,506   1,423,545   2,419.585   3,267,137   3,707,338   3,428,666   2,375.328   1,309,069
Internal Sources of Funds/Debt Service                                                        1.59         2.06         2.11         2.22         2.29         1.63         1.74          1.61         1.63



BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
REB Financing Plan
1980/81-1981/-82         1982/83-1986/87          1980/81-1989/90
Taka         US$         Taka          US$        Taka          US$
Million     Million      Million      Million     Million      Million
Sources
Internal Sources                         5.3       0.29          318.4      17.69       1,135.9        63.10
Repayment of PBSs Loans                 --        --              19.3       1.07          837.5       46.52
Total Internal Sources                 5.3       0.29          337.7     18.76        1,973.4       109.62
Less-Debt Services                      14.5       0.80          172.9       9.60        1,180.0        65.55
Net Internal Sources               (   9.2)    ( 0.51)         164.8       9.16          793.4       44.08
Capital Raised
Equity and Grants                 1,093.6       60.75        3,148.5    174.92        5,853.5       325.19
Borrowings                          279.1       15.51        8,364.6    464.70       13,507.5       750.42
Total Capital Raised              1,372.7       76.26       11,513.1    639.62       19,361.0    1,075.61
TOTAL SOURCES                         1       363.5  75.75      11,677.9 ===..648.78     20==54.4 1=1=9.69
Applications
PBSs Loans Sanctioned               1,121.6       62.31        8,094.7    449.71       19,500.5    1,083.36
Development Plan-Work
in Progress Changes                 205.8       11.43        3,465.8    192.55      (   252.7)  (   14.04)
Capital Expenditure                     38.5       2.14           16.2       0.90           63.7        3.54
Change in Working Capital            (   2.4)    ( 0.13)         101.2       5.62         842.9        46.83
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                    1i363.5       75.75       11.677.9    648.78       20.154.4 1.119.69
OQZ
o co
cr



-75-
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 7
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Average Rural Electricity Society (PBS) - PhaseII
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
1.      The financial projections of the average PBS included in this report
consists of annual income statements, statements of sources and
applications of funds, and balance sheets.
2.      The following assumptions have been trade:
A. Income Statement
(i) System losses are considered at 25% of the power
purchased in the first year of operation, 20%
in the second year, 15% in t.he third year, and
10% starting from the fourth. year.
(ii) BPDB bulk tariff development; is assumed to be
consistent with the requireL increases in BPDB
retail tariffs under the prc,posed Ashuganj Thermal
Power Project.
(iii) The average BPDD retail tariff is assumed to
equal the average expected BPDB retail tariff.
(iv) GOB subsidy is included in i:he first five years
of PBS operation.
(v) Depreciation is calculated at a rate of 3% per
annum on straight line basis.
B. Balance Sheet
(i) Accounts receivable are est:Lmated to equal one
month's sales of electricity at the end of each
year.



-76-
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 7
(ii) REB accumulated interest durng the five-year
grace period is added to the project cost and is
included in REB long-term debt at the end of the
grace period.
C. Sources and applications of Funds
(i) The initial project cost and the future expansions
are escalated to reflect current prices.
(ii) Repayment of long-term debt will be over twenty-
five years after the grace period of five years.



-77-
ANNEX 19
BANGLADESH                                          Page 3 of ?
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Average Rural Electricity Society - Phase II
Forecast Income Statrments
(Thousands of Taka)
Years                            1      2       3       4        5       6        7        8        9       10        11        12
Energy Purchases (MWh)                        5983   9126   12509   14607   17379    20153  22941   25722    28502    31283
Average Bulk Tariff(Tk/kWh)                   1.22   1.22    1.50   1.50        1.50      1.88   1.88    1.88       2.35      2.35
Sales of Electricity(MWh)                     4487   7301   10633   13146   15641    18143  20647   23150    25652    28155
Average Revenue(Tk/kWh)                       1.54   1.54    1.93   1.93        1.93      2.90   2.95    2.95       3.35      3.35
Revenue
From Sales of Electricity                   6910  11243   20522   25371   30187    52614  60908   68293    85934    94319
Other Operating Revenue                      207    337      615      761      905      1578   1827    2049       2578      2829
Total Revenue                           7117  11580   21137   26132   31092    54192  62735   70342    88512    97148
Operating Expenses
Energy Purchases                           7299   11134  18763   21S1O   26068    37899  43129   48357    66980    73515
Administration                               219      448    743      858    1029       1172   1315    1458       1501      1744
Depreciation                                1343    3266   4575    5490    5870         6274   6702    7150       7379      7621
Tax Expense                                   45       73    106      131      156       181    206      232       257       281
Total Operating
Expenses                                8906   14921  24187   28-89   33123    45526  51352   57197    76117    83161
Net Operating Revenue                        (1789)  (3341) (3050)  (2,,57)  (2031)    8666  11383   13145    12395    13987
Interest Expense                               -       -      -        50;04    5596      5598   5756    5833       5911      5996
GOB Subsidy                                   1789    3341   3050    7'i61    7627         -       -       -         -         -
Net Income                                     -       -      -                  -        3068   5627    7312       6484      7991
Operating Ratio                               125%   129%   114%    129%    124%          94%    91%      907       93%       92%
Rate of Return                                 -       -      -        -        -        4.5%   5.8%    6.47       5.8%      6.3%



-78-
BANGLADESH                                            ANNEX 19
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT                                   Page 4 of 7
Average Rural Electricity Society - Phase II
Forecast Balance Sheets
(Thousands of Taka)
Years                           1        2      3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10         11        12
Assets
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets in Operation  -          -    89591  128185   176818   189156   202233   216059   230712   245976              262125   279109
Accumulated Depreciation   -          -      1343    4609       9184    14674    20544    26818    33520    40670            48049    55670
Net Fixed Assets in
Operation                    -        -    88248  123576   167634   174482   181689   189241   197192   205306              214076   223439
Work in Progress           63337  111590  51135   40173         -         -         -         -         -         -           -         -
Total Fixed Assets            63337  111590 139383  163749   167634   174482   181689   189241   197192   205306              214076   223439
Current Assets
Cash                         200      200   1302    4491        9125      7100      5131      5919      6283      8262       10348    12252
Accounts Receivable                           575      937      1710      2114      2515      4384      5075      5691        7161      7860
Inventories                                   882    1236      1676       1745      1817     1892      1972      2053         2141      2234
Total Current Assets            200     200   2759    6664    12511    10959          9463    12195    13330    16006          19650    22346
Total Assets                 63537  111790 142142  170413   180145   185441   191152   201436   210522   219833               233726   245785
Equity and Liabilities
Membership Fee                200     200    200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200         200       200
Accumulated Profit
and Loss                     -        -       -       -         -         -         -         3068      8695    16007        22691    30482
Net Equity                   200      200    200       200       200       200       200      3268      8895    16207        22691    30682
REB Long-term Loan         63100  110700  138900 165300   172455   181590   186608   191852   194439   197046               199872   202851
REB Accumulated Interest   237        890    1826   3058        4363      -         -         -         -         -           -         -
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                             1216    1855       3127      3651      4344      6316      7188      8059       11163    12252
REB Operating Finance        -        -       -       -         -         -        -         -          -         -           -         -
Total Current Liabilities                      1216    1855       3127      3651      4344      6316      7188      8059       11163    12252
Total Equity and
Liabilities                  63537  111790  142142 170413   180145   185441   191152   201436   210522   221312               233726   245785



-79-
BANGLADESH                                                ANNEX 19
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT                                          g  5 of 7
Average Rural Electricity Society - Phase II
Forecast Sources and Application of Funds Statements
(Thousands of Taka)
Years                           1        2        3         4          5         6         7         8         9         10          11        12
Sources
Internal Sources
Net Operating Revenue         -        -    (1789)  (3341)    (3050)   (22!7)    (2031)         8666    11383    13145         12395    13987
Depreciation                  -        -      1343    3266       4575      5450      5870       6274       6702      7150       7379      7621
Gross Internal Sources                       ( 446)   (  75)    1525       3223      3839      14940    18085    20295         19774    21608
Less Debt Service             -        -       -       -          -         -         -           -         -         -          -        -
Amortization                  -        -       -       -          -        7566      8059       8582       9135      9604      10092    10608
Interest                     237      653      936    1232       1305      5489      5792       5805       5976      6062       6153      6251
Capitalized Interest         237      653      936    1232       1305       185       196         207       220       229        242       255
Interest Expense              -        -       -       -          -        5304      5596       5598       5756      5833       5911      5996
Total Debt Service              -        -       -       -          -       128TO    13655        14180    14891    15437        16003    16604
Net Internal Service                          (446)  ( 75)       1525   (9637)      (9816)        760      3194      4858       3771      5004
External Sources
Equity                       200       -       -       -          -         -         -           -         -         -          -         -
REB Long-term Loan         63337   48253   29136  27632          8460    12338    13077        13826    11722    12211         12918    13587
GOB Subsidy                   -        -      1789   3341        3050      7551      7627         -         -         -          -         -
Total External Sources    63537   48253   30925  30973            11510    19839    20704         13826    11722    12211        12918    13587
Total Sources                63537   48253   30479  30898         13035    10262    10888        14586    14916    17069         16689    18591
Applications
Investment 1/              63337   48253   29136  27632          8460    12338    13077        13826    14653    15264         16149    16984
Variation in Working
Capital Other than
Cash                                           241      77       (59)      (i11)     (220)        (28)     (101)     (174)     (1546)     (297)
Variation in Cash            200      -       1102   3189        4634     (2C25)    (1969)       788        364      1979       2086      1904
Total Applications           63537   48253   30479  30898         13035    10262    10888        14586    14916    17069         16689    18591
Net Internal Sources/
Investment (Three-
Year Average)                 -        -        -       -          -                   -           -        22%       31%       23%       30%
1/ Investment in Current Prices



-80-
ANNEX 19
Page 6 of 7
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Model Formula
For Calculation of Subsidy to PBSs
Guidelines to be used in determining inputs
1.      Onlending terms from REB to PBSs as agreed in Section 2.04(b) of
the Project Agreement of Rural Electrification Project.
2.      BPDB bulk tariff to PBSs: actual, consistent with provisions in
the DCA.
3.      PBS system losses: actual, but not exceeding 25% in year 1, 20% in
year 2, 15% in year 3 and 10% thereafter.
4.      PBS adminstration expenses: actual, but not exceeding a ceiling
per kWh sold, to be determined by GOB and REB.
5.      PBS retail tariff: actual.



Model Formula
For Calculation of Subsidy
Average PBS - Phase II
Years of Operation                     1           2          3         4          5
PBS Average Selling Price Tk/kWh
BPDB Bulk Tariff
System Losses
Variable Expenses Per kWh Sold
Cost of Power Sold Tk/kWh
Taxes
Total Variables Expenses Per kWh
Contributionl/  (Tk/kWh)
Fixed and Semi Variable Expenses:
Depreciation (TklOOO)            2/
Administration Expenses (TklOOO)-
Total Fixed and Semi Variable
Expenses (TklOOO)
Share of Fixed Expenses
Per kWh Sold (Tk/kWh)
Subsidy (Tk/kWh)-/
1/ PBS average selling price minus
variable expenses of kWh sold
2/ With a ceiling per kWh to be agreed
between GOB and REB.
3/  Contribution minus share of fixed expenses
OQ z
ND X
F-.
h
_,lo~



-82-                                   ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A.      Methodology
1.      The method selected for economic analysis quantifies cost savings for
users of the supply system. In this approach, electricity is considered as one
alternative source of energy and compared to other energy sources yielding the
same result, such as diesel motors for industry, diesel pumps for irrigation,
and kerosene for domestic lighting. A typical PBS area was examined with
respect to economic internal rate of return, and net present value. This
typical average area is representative of all cooperative areas under the
project.
2.      The cost saving approach implies that new electricity consumers in
rural areas are switching from alternative energy to electricity, or if
electricity would not be supplied, many would obtain alternative energy
sources. It is possible that, had electricity not been provided in the area,
some rural electricity consumers who would have obtained electric connections
might not have purchased an alternative power source. The underlying
assumption is a downward sloping demand curve for rural energy inputs with
respect to price.
3.      The cost streams consist of the REB investment cost, recurrent cost
in REB-installed facilities, marginal cost of energy, and private costs
(excluding tariff) associated with the proposed project and incurred by
retail consumers, including house wiring, investment in electricity-using
facilities and equipment, and their maintenance. Thirty years was chosen as
an appropriate lifetime of the schemes. The demand growth and associated REB
capital investment required were obtained from REB forecasts. The bulk of
the REB investment is concentrated in the first five years of the schemes.
Further growth is possible with further investment after the fifth year until
the twelfth year when full potential demand is met.
4.      The benefit stream is represented by the total cost of the
alternative, adjusted to reflect a realistic mix of valuation of energy
supply by the consumer. If a significant part of expected electricity demand
is due to conversion of existing or expected alternative energy sources, this
share of project output is valued at full alternative cost. The remainder,
i.e. demand that would not be present in the absence of the project, should
be valued at less than full alternative cost, the upper value limit, but more
than the minimum value of electricity depending on the shape of the demand
curve. The minimum value of electricity as seen by the consumers is the
total cost of running the electric alternative which consists of capital, 0 &
M and tariff costs.
5.      For the purpose of this report, the economic analysis is performed
under four different demand curve assumptions. They are as follows:



-83--                    ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 5
(a)     Case 1
The energy demand is inelastic with respect to price, or the area has
reached saturation by using alternative energy. The demand for the project
output is fully due to conversion of existing or expected alternative energy
source users. (High potential value of benefits).
(b)     Case 2
The energy demand is due solely to first time users of any form of
energy and the observed value of electricity to these consumers is their
total cost of running the electric alternative. (Minimum value of benefits).
(c)     Case 3
The demand curve is linear, with the upper value limit represented by
full cost of alternative energy source (Case 1) and the minimum value by the
cost of electricity use (Case 2).
(d)     Case 4 (Base Case)
50% of the domestic and commercial demand, and 70% of the industrial
and agricultural demand is due to-replacemer.t (value as in Case 1), and the
remainder is represented by linear demand curves. Based on existing
evidence, this is considered to be the best central estimate and constitutes
the base case.
B.      Economic Cost of Alternative Energy Sources for Rural Use
6.      Renewable energy sources (solar, wind, biomass) were not incorporated
in the cost comparison because of excessive cost, unsuitability, or early
stage of development. At present, none of these technologies can be treated
as a realistic, reliable, large-scale alternative to electrification or
dieselization for Bangladesh.
7.      Using investment cost of energy-usiag equipment, and recurrent
economic costs of operaton, the approximate cost savings accruing because of
use of electricity instead of other energy :3ources are as follows, in Tk. per
year per connection:
Electric      Diesel or Kerosene      Saving
Deep tubewells                      31,600               53,300           21,700
Shallow tubewells                    4,500               7,600             3,100
Low-lift pumps                      13,500              22,600             9,100
Small industry                      30,200              49,000            18,800
Domestic and Commercial                750                1,450              700
C.      Marginal Cost of Electricity and Fuel Cost
8.      The marginal cost of power supply at 33 kV (the point of entry for
the RE system) is Tk. 1.61/kWh in domestic terms, and Tk. 1.2/kWh in border



ANNEX 20
-84-                      Page 3 of 5
price terms. 1/ The 1981 prices CIF Chittagong for kerosene and heavy duty
oil are US$ 396.48 per metric ton and US$ 351.58 per metric ton. The cost of
lubricant oil is Tk. 37.02 per imperial gallon. 2/
D.      Economic Analysis of Typical PBS
(i)     Capital Cost: Initial Investment
The total investment cost based on five year system design
is phased out as follows:
1st year   2nd year   3rd year   4th year   5th year
15%        25%         30%         25%          5%
(ii)   Additional connections beyond the first five years require additional
annual investment of Tk. 5.2 million by REB. Demand is met in full in the
twelfth year.
(iii)   Operating and maintenance costs incurred by REB is 3% of cumulative
REB investment.
(iv)    Energy consumption per typical connecton is as follows:
Consumer Category                         KWh/year
Domestic                                       480
Commercial                                     480
Deep tubewell                               21,940
Shallow tubewell                             2,770
Low lift pump                                9,220
Industry                                    20,730
(v)     Private cost per connection is derived from the data base for Section B
of this annex.
(vi)    The average retail tariff for rural areas is Tk. 0.90/kWh.
1/ Based on mission calculations and USAID Rural Electrification Project
report.
2/  From USAID report.



-85-                     ANNEX 20
Page 4 of 5
Shadow Pricing
(a)     REB Investment:  The local and fore:Lgn components of investment cost
were identified. The local cost components were revalued in terms of border
prices by using a standard conversion factor of 0.75.
(b)     REB Operation and Maintenance Cost:   80% labor and 20% materials
content (valued at the shadow wage rate and using standard conversion
factor) is assumed.
(c)     Private Cost:  The cost of fuel and lubricant were valued at border
prices, the remaining cost items were converted to border prices, by using
the standard conversion factor and shadow/wage rate for rural unskilled labor
(0.6).
Economic Rate of Return Results
The economic rate of return and its sensitivity to marginal cost of
electricity and net present values at discoant rates 8, 10, and 12% for the
base case (case 5) are as shown in Tables 1 and 2.
Table 1
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
(Tk 1000)
Input Streams for Base Case (Case 4)
Capital                    Private       Marginal
Periods      Cost          0 & M        Cost          Energy Cost        Benefits
1            14,096.3          0.0           0.0            0.0                0.0
2            23,493.0          0.0           0.0            0.0                0.0
3            28,191.0      1,842.4         523.3        6,630.8           10,167.8
4            23,493.0      2,500.4         944.0       11,035.2           16,709.8
5             4,698.8      2,632.0       1,489.4       15,681.6           24,828.3
6             5,205.0      2,762.2       1,807.9       18,936.5          30,657.5
7             5,205.0      2,893.8       2,126.4       21,017.7           36,491.2
8             5,205.0      3,039.4       2,445.4       24,381.5          42,321.9
9             5,205.0      3,186.4       2,762.7       27,709.0          48,152.2
10            5,205.0      3,332.0       3,081.1       31,097.0          53,984.1
11            5,205.0      3,477.6       3,396..5      34,485.0          59,814.6
12            5,205.0      3,623.2       3,582.6       37,752.0          65,582.2
13   30           0.0      3,623.2       3,582.6       37,752.0          65,582.2



-86-                     ANNEX 20
Fage 5-6f '5
Sensitivity Analysis for Net Present Value
Discount Rate
8%      10%       12%
Present Value (Tk  1000)             36,585   12,060   -4,464
Sensitivity Tests to Marginal Energy Cost
Economic Rate
Test Cases               Test Case Variations                 of Return
High
Base   Potential
Case   Benefit
(Case 4) (Case 1)
Base Case                                                  11.4      16.6
Test Case 1              Up 25%                             4.9      11.5
Test Case 2              Up 50%                          - 7.9        5.2
Test Case 3              Down 25%                          16.6      21.2
Test Case 4              Down 50%                         21.2       25.4
Table 2
Economic Rate of Return under Different Demand Assumptions
Case                                     Economic Rate of Return
Case 1                                             16.6
Case 2                                             None
Case 3                                              0.6
Case 4                                             11.4
November 1981



-87-                             ANNEX 21
BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  Selected Reports and Documents on the Rural Sub-sector
A.1    USAID Project Paper: Rural Electrification II, June 1981.
A.2    USAID Project Grant Agreement, AugtLst 20, 1981.
A.3    Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement, 1981.
A.4    USAID Project Agreement, Rural Electrification I, December 15, 1977.
A.5    ACRE Phase I Project Proforma, SEB. September, 1980.
A.6    ACRE World Bank Finance Project Proforma, REB, October 1979.
A.7    Second Five-Year Plan, 1980-85, REB3, January 1980.
A.8    ACRE Phase II Draft Project Proposal, 1981.
A.9    NRECA/CAI Quarterly Progress Repori:s to REB, December 31, 1980
and March 31, 1981.
B.  Selected Reports and Papers Relating to tie Project
B.1    Rural Electrification Board Ordinaace, 1977.
B.2    Draft Project Proposal, May 1981.
B.3    Letter to IDA Power Mission on Selection of Areas, June 8, 1981.
B.4    Model Loan Contract between PBS and REB.
B.5    Model By-laws of a PBS.
C. Working Papers
C.1    Economic Analysis.
C.2    Long-Run Marginal Cost of Electricity.






4/TeAili         2 9  <                                                                                                            BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
POWER SYSTEM
21 ndTTsldr)    /-                                                                                                      - S-- I  L
2                                                                           FT STING  NTNTNTLLTITN  LET -- NIUT,
vL   )g16    S    r ( j-i                 ~     zTTTSNTMISSITN .NEST                                                                    TN    lNTUCIWZN    9G
C     d      .-s    i   . D<n>;2     4                     /U%NTUP'C'AU                                                     IT E LINES       _-  
''u'AUN   -                T                   I    l    o, 'g   j,f   ,'5,X,),X<                                           NA ITTa TTCNET STAN  TICS ~- ~~- 
SNek>ar;.'plqn r   24plt C      wiKE'anR~T=,1                N4ejPg '      tS                                          ST-AM TLUR:E         A           A*
g-}   DX   Mg ) ~~~~~)A   )   X  '' \  '>  w L.;;m  ,); f +S:                                   GC~~~~~~~~~M3UTTSC TI. NIN  *       *           *
jSAc            (N ,USUub E         K*              >'        T'                                                                           SATE A c T V   *          *           *
N                    >~ ,~-                      NELA1p                                                                                                       TITTSTNS
IINN  rI                       I        N  ,N,N                                                                             -   =  NTETNAT TENAL 9CLNDAT ES
1, I'  ''A-TSP    GSSAT(V~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~I--A
A,            FlUDENu'T O\   ii              '4'                  CS                 Od/pNsi         /      e                               $r 
55 r2MahCJr ) 'N-                 I  N'    ANNNNU           .           _ k     l Cou1znm t  ' '   
N~~~ ~ ~     ~~~~~~~ D"~'' A,                                                                                                                  ANT
~~~~~~~o                                    wn   ro xRw A4r)  SBAELuofn T"'TS'AMTLT                    ,t-Kfl(?                    NX .   _  .U              > 8      '     Han< STUNSq
Li R
f M _I                                                                              *   94thNh.'d
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                      >              'NESTlEiS.N r                                               15'5
A        S   A " H  "                                                .                                                                                            U<  5             BURMA
NA-    r'~ S                     '> _/-11                                                   if4  f                                  I;  ml                     ITU'           INK'>c4 
'               t6     A; "zA 5rB'Ib D:K                                                                                                                            ,'-          'AST'' A
*,~ ,~               'A' SB ,U1NLNIA
I                               As       ATAINNSJTNNI]nU;                                          \N .Kt.IIKIL
L~~~~~~~ IST'N                                                    .,                          . .__,T_$       C          E        L U IN     "   \j     \                c , IOT O            Ao
K TI'                                                                    UNUN    ~ ~ ~ l7   >151                                         r                              T~~~   ~'
~~~1, s                                                     I"~~~~~~~ U;II                                                -
<At  ~  K>, ~   " p5~I 115  ANT> _                                         '
N  I  '11   5""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
AUN5'S'.U'INA'TNI'NTN'S                                                                                                                                 LI~~~~~~~~~~~~,~A   L
JANITATAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                              (~~CITA                              2
'A2
g'S         A    T                I   TI  NT                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BURMAA
N                                                                               SE   """'"',~',~~I                                                                '\                    'AN






TFF                                             EA, At  'BANGLADESH
\jEACA             i+jX ''                      .RURAL  ELECTRIFICATION   PROJECT
p3J>>ha V            w>t~t  < %Area Coverage Rural Electrification Program
~~~~~ t4T                            'X     Ki                                                                                                         NEN AREA T0 RE TELR CRIFsE ANAER PEAE EDOPEATL
'A (9                                                                                                                                           r-'\       % ) \      AIRECEA REDE FLCRIED JTART ERJD IDA RARAA CLFR   RRA
tK     /     \    De \      i  o               k      L        LhLL%n             ,, -                                                                     UA.EEA AREA AC FE E..URAPID RA  ADEE BA U RNAT UD FINeANCE
ss   r   -   t                   < i<    4  wrn y Z. .~~~~~TEpE    RAAI -,   DITECAIRCN EAEARI:T
C  AAN  N'  C  IEDEEPEF                                                                        -  A...AI~~~~~~~~~~~AACLE   1 TAD E -DE7---
TPPTI      K      ;      u VA'(    AFAA               A                   Ar/f r                                                                      -g _  TEpNAIDICEALADCARd4 A
hI ~       ~~~ jATE4                            U <->                    f/A/K
l             ,                                                                                               CAR TA.b ,,  l
~~~~~~~~~~~~~EE                                                 I  A    _ FA R      ND        1       '
7/r    ''H                                                               '              t                              " "A~  <>XA                 ":. ,/1.fl rgv, A.  Ar I
-71                    AEFTEpTI                                    \ C   R                                C,        A                R         -TA   SATE,
\ ARAD 'EPE*,N                                                                                                                   T\AAN)  A                               N>                              t                   |>~ '
i7- ~       ~         ~          4
V" ~ ~ ~ <
_2Zo ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~                    EWEmas-  'r4g i                                                     R%i                                V      Ag=  -                             A;     SEp   k: <   Uaez1       y 2
-AX             TEE, C.                              A                                  / ..(.               P               EtEf,                         _                                              K      laajs>\  
ETT7R                       'EtA                            Pn      w  REN         AuAAsmA                  sDd                  -             &c'CL;    bEE
m me,ll D ..... che mal J~~>                       t    -54W                E....A.. fSA]f ,                          I       -,             (S  T'
REv               ;                          , ' AToNA
I       I N D  l A                                                                                            T DUA,                                   A
.   <                       E _219                                              U       10     lo  _0 ARADpEDEP  ERUIRFART
A               A                  E2LHTEL 4D                  AW     R    A           
-_   i   L    N p.                            ER           tR          t        '      =E\    rA A'                  FENNP                                                          U  R



