Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                     !        t  .  L   t 
Report No. P-3836-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRBCTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 28.7 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
May 30, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation
to a basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as
intervention currency. On February 2:3, 1984, the official exchange rate was
set at Tk 25.17 buying and Tk 25.23 selling per US dollar. Unless noted
otherwise, the rates shown below have been used throughout this report:
Tk 1     =  US$0.04
Tk 25.2  =  US$1.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP       -   Annual Development P?rogram
BADC      -   Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BCIC      -   Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BPDB      -   Bangladesh Power Development Board
CIDA      -   Canadian Internationial Development Authority
CPA       -   Chittagong Port Authority
EEC       -   European Economic Community
ERD       -   External Resource Di'vision
GOB       -   Government of Bangladesh
IMED      -   Implementation Monitoring & Evaluation Division
LLP       -   low lift pump
NFTI      -   National Fertilizer Training Institute
PBS       -   Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Electrification Society)
PEC       -   Project Evaluation Committee
PP        -   Project Proforma
REB       -   Rural Electrification Board
TA        -   technical assistance
TACC      -   Technical Assistance Coordinating Committee
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 -- June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Bangladesh
Supplemental Assistance Credit
Credit Summary
Borrower            : People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount              : SDR 28.7 million (US$30.0 million equivalent).  The
proposed credit would be allocated among four on-going
projects as follows:
Supplemental
Financing Amounts
Projects                  (US$ million)
Muhuri Irrigation (725-BD)              10.0
Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation (1023-BD)               5.0
Chittagong Port (1247-BD)                7.0
Rural Electrification (1267-BD)          8.0
30.0
Terms               : Standard, except that the maturity dates of amounts
allocated to each project would be the same
as for the original credits.
Relending Terms    : Proposed supplemental funds allocated to each project
would be made available to the project implementing
entities under the same terms and conditions as those
applied to the original credits.
Purpose             : As a result of worldwide economic recession, a decline
in its terms of trade, and stagnation of external aid
inflows, Bangladesh has experienced severe financial
constraints over the past three years. While the
Government has taken important steps to bring about
financial stability, continuing substantial aid inflows
are required to cushion the severity of the adjustment
process and to allow a modest growth in investment and
per capita incomes. The proposed credit, as a part of
the Special Action Program, would provide supplemental
financing for four on-going projects to ensure that they
are implemented in a timely manner without the
Government having to divert resources from other high
priority projects in its development program.
The credit would increase IDA's share of project costs
in two projects and would finance a part of project
cost overruns in the remaining two. The proposed
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-dii-
credit would also support the Government's effort to
address a number of administrative and procedural
issues which hinder efficient project implementation.
Proiect Costs                Total Project Costs for Individual Projects
(excluding taxes and duties)
(US$ million)
Estimated aLt Appraisal    Present Estimates
Muhuri Irrigation                    42.2                        62.3
Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                    42.0                         53.4
Chittagong Port                      91.0                        85.0
Rural Electrification                56.7                        54.2
Financing Plans                   Share of Project Cost Financed through
External Assistance (excluding taxes & duties)
At Appraisal           Current          Proposed
Muhuri Irrigation                 83.4%                56.5%              72.6%
Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  80.2%                65.7%             75.1%
Chittagong Port                   65.9%                72.0%             80.2%
Rural Electrification             70.5%                69.6%              84.3%
Estimated
Disbursements         Estimated disbursements of funds allocated to
individual projects are given in Annex IV. The
following represents a composite disbursement schedule.
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY85                        FY86
I     II                  I     II
During Semester                   7.7    9.4                 8.1    4.8
Cumulative                        7.7   17.1                25.2   30.0



-iii-
Economic Rate
of Return           : The economic rates of return for individual projects are
estimated as follows:
Original             Now
Muhuri Irrigation             16%               14%
Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation          18 to 92%          10 to 38%
Chittagong Port               23%               21%
Rural Electrification    11 to 17%           11 to 17%






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Supplemental Assistance Credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for
SDR 28.7 million (the equivalent of US$30.0 million), on standard IDA terms
(except, that the maturity dates of amounts allocated to each project would
be the same as for the original credits). The proposed credit would provide,
as part of the Special Action Program, supplemental financing for four
IDA-financed projects currently under implementation. The proposed Credit,
in addition to facilitating timely completion of these projects, would sup-
port improvements in the Government's overall administrative procedures
affecting project implementation.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Recent Economic Trends and
Medium-Term Development Issues," (Report No. 4822-BD, dated February 27,
1984) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with very high population density and widespread
poverty (annual income per head averages about US$140 at present). The
economy, dominated by agriculture, remains acutely vulnerable to disruption
by both natural and external factors. Considerable progress has been made in
increasing the availability of irrigation and other inputs, but foodgrain
production remains heavily dependent on weather conditions and falls short of
total needs. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability complicate fiscal
management due to the need to manage public foodgrain stocks and often impose
an additional strain on the balance of payments.
4.      The economy is also characterized by very low savings, reflecting the
low level of incomes, and by a very large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a small fraction of investment (which has
averaged around 16% of GDP in recent years). Export earnings cover less than
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Technical Education Project (Report
No. P-3813-BD) dated May 3, 1984.



-2-
30% of the import bill, and over 60% of merchandise exports are accounted for
by raw jute and jute goods. The resource gap of around 15% of GDP is
financed by workers' remittances, which have risen rapidly to over 5% of GDP
in recent years, and by foreign assistance of around 10% of GDP per year.
The capacity for imports can be sharply affected by a combination of factors
which are beyond the control of the Government and whose disruptive effect on
the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of the Government's revenue
base on import duties and sales taxes (together accounting for 60% of tax
revenues).
5.      In spite of these problems, the late 1970s were a period of political
stability and economic consolidation and provided an opportunity to plan for
longer-term development. GDP growth of close to 6% p.a. from FY75 to FY80
was accompanied by rising public investment, financed by a substantial real
increase in aid disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and exter-
nal events during FY81 and FY82 disrupted the momentum of development. The
corrective actions taken in FY83 have, however, been reasonably successful in
stabilizing the short-term external and budgetary situation and, despite the
severe limits on available resources, there are prospects for renewed modest
economic growth.
Recent Economic Developments
6.      From FY80 to FY82, a sharp decline :in export prices of raw jute and
jute products and of major non-traditional exports, combined with rising
import prices (especially for petroleum) to cause a decline of over 30% in
Bangladesh's terms of trade. At the same time, external aid inflows, which
had risen steadily until FY80, declined in FY81; they recovered in FY82, but
only to 4% above FY79 flows in real terms. Prolonged drought adversely
affected the FY82 and FY83 crops. The shortfall in FY82 foodgrain production
(0.4 million tons or 3% below FY81 levels) l.ed to high food prices and a
substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to well below the
level considered sufficient for food security. Substantial commercial
foodgrain imports were required, imposing further strain on the balance of
payments, while reducedl agricultural produc:ion and incomes depressed demand
and activity in other sectors.
7.      During FY81, the Government attempted to cope with the intensifying
external resource constraint by resorting to short-term commercial
borrowings, short-term deposits from and currency swaps with other central.
banks, some run-down of reserves, and assistance from the IMF under an
Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangemenit concluded in December 1980.
However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in July 1981, as the Government:
incurred a large bank-financed budget defic:it and credit ceilings agreed with
the IMF could not be met. In FY82 the Government sought to contain import
growth through a variely of measures, including a substantial depreciation of
the Taka by 22% against the US dollar. Nevertheless, despite an increase in
workers' remittances, from $210 million in FY80 to over $400 million in FY82,



-3-
and further short-term borrowing, foreign exchange reserves declined to about
US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks' imports) by the end of FY82.
8.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate also had a major
adverse impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government receipts
of local counterpart funds were reduced as a result of declining commodity
aid flows, as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes. These
problems were exacerbated by inadequate financial planning and by poor finan-
cial performance of public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and
delays in increasing sales prices. A budget deficit of Tk 5 billion (2.5% of
GNP) emerged in FY81, even though the Annual Development Program (ADP) was
cut back by 12% in the second half of FY81. Despite a similar cutback in the
FY82 ADP, recourse to substantial bank financing was avoided only because of
a run-down of public food stocks following poor harvests. Nevertheless, a
sharp rise in foodgrain prices in mid-FY82, combined with the inflationary
pressures caused by exchange rate depreciation and a rapid expansion of
domestic liquidity in late FY81, resulted in a 15% rise in the consumer
prices during FY82.
9.      The Government introduced a wide range of austerity measures with its
FY83 budget (in July 1982), designed to adjust the economy to the serious
resource constraints. Development expenditure plans for FY83 were reduced by
nearly 20%, in line with expected resource availabilities, and the increase
in recurrent expenditures was limited to 14%, only slightly above the
forecast inflation level. The Government also introduced new tax measures
designed to yield about 0.5% of GDP in FY83. In addition, a number of sub-
stantial subsidy and pricing adjustments were made to reduce consumption,
protect investments and to improve the financial performance of public sector
enterprises and utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing and subsidy
reduction measures amounted to an impressive 2.3% of GDP. Measures were also
taken to improve balance of payments management, including a further 11%
depreciation of the exchange rate during FY83, higher import duty rates,
financing the import of more commodities through the Wage Earners' Scheme,l/
abolition of selected export duties and improvements in export financing.
IMF assistance to Bangladesh was resumed under a Stand-by Arrangement in
March 1983 which covered the period until August 1983.
10.     While these measures were effective in helping to restore short-term
economic stability, their effect, combined with depressed private sector
demand following poor harvests during 1982, resulted in low GDP growth (2.4%)
in FY83, following a 1.5% decline in FY82. The budgetary situation in FY83
was satisfactory, due to resource mobilization efforts, the depreciation of
the Taka which largely offset the negative budgetary impact of reduced import
l/ Under the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES), foreign exchange earnings
remitted by Bangladeshi workers abroad are sold in auction to importers
requiring foreign exchange.



-4-
volumes, further foodgrain sales, and incrieased commodity aid disbursements.
The balance of payments was helped by a recovery in aid levels, better terms
of trade resulting from lower petroleum and food import prices, depressed
import volumes, and a further growth of remittances to around US$600 million.
Foreign exchange reserves increased to US$340 million, representing about six
weeks' import equivalent, by the end of FY83. Following good winter crops,
foodgrain production for FY83 reached a record 15.1 million tons and infla-
tionary pressures eased. While the short-term outlook has improved, the
resource constraints remain severe, calling for a continuation of cautious
macro-economic policies and consistent efforts to strengthen the productive
sectors, and further resource mobilization.
11.     With its FY84 budget, introduced in July 1983, GOB sought to con-
solidate the gains made last year and to set the stage for a broadened domes-
tic revenue mobilization effort in the future. The total tax effort was
expected to increase from about 8.3% of GDP in FY83 to 9.0% in FY84. While
domestic taxes, which accounted for 3.6% of GDP in FY83, were expected to
generate only 3.4% of GDP in FY84 (mainly due to the rapid growth in the
lightly taxed agricultural sector in FY84), several new tax measures were
introduced whose full revenue impact will be felt only in FY85 and
thereafter.  Total current revenues were budgeted more than 25% higher than
in FY83, at Tk 34 billion; almost 80% of this increase was to come from a
Tk 6 billion increase in duties and taxes on imports.  Recurrent expenditures
were again to be tightly controlled, so as to permit a substantial increase
in the current budget surplus. The A.DP was budgeted at over Tk 34.8 billion
(5% higher in real te-rms than the actual FY83 ADP). Resources not generated
by external aid inflows were to finance 19.2% of the ADP: this represents
merely 2.3% of GDP and highlights the urgency of mobilizing more domestic
resources for development finan.cing. A Core Program of 435 projects was
specified, accounting for 73% of the ADP and providing ample room for adjust-
ing expenditures to actual resource availabilities.
12.     The unexpectedly slow recovery of :imports has caused a substantial
shortfall in customs duty and sales tax co'llections below budgeted levels.
Part of this revenue shortfall will be offset by savings in the food budget,
as domestic foodgrain procurement will be Ear below original expectations.
Nevertheless, the February 1984 review of the budgetary situation indicated
that the the ADP might have to be reduced by about 9% in order to remain in
line with available resources. However, resource prospects have been improv-
ing in recent months -- as the disbursement rates of both project and com-
modity aid have accelerated and. additional resources have been mobilized
through new financial instruments.  It now appears that available financing
will permit the implementation of an ADP somewhat closer to the originally
budgeted level -- without excessive recourse to domestic bank borrowing.



-5-
Development Planning and Policy Issues
13.     The Second Five-Year Plan for FY81-85 accords highest priority to
(i) reducing population growth from the present rate 2.6% p.a., (ii) achiev-
ing foodgrain self-sufficiency, (iii) providing universal primary education,
and (iv) accelerating domestic energy development. IDA has assisted the
Government in preparing the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP)
which aims at increasing foodgrain production to 20 million tons. Foodgrain
self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of the decade with appropriate
producer incentives, resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and an
expanded role for the private sector in the provision and servicing of modern
agricultural implements and inputs. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate
(74%), the Plan's emphasis on primary education is well founded, but the goal
of achieving universal primary education by 1985 is unattainable in view of
resource and managerial constraints. Prospects for achieving the objectives
of educational expansion and improved foodgrain availability would be
improved by success in reducing the population growth rate; this will require
more determined efforts than have been made thus far, especially with regard
to birth control efforts which have suffered from poor implementation and
have had only limited success. The Government has recently taken steps to
coordinate its birth control activities and to strengthen training programs
for field staff. A medium-term implementation plan for the population sector
is currently being prepared with Bank assistance.
14.     There is an urgent need to develop the country's energy resources,
particularly natural gas, since imported petroleum at present pre-empts about
three quarters of merchandise export earnings. Ongoing and planned invest-
ments in the energy sector are designed to increase the production, distribu-
tion and utilization of natural gas as a substitute for imported fuel,
including studies aimed at determining the potential for future investments
in gas-based export industries. The recently approved Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project will assist the Government to appraise more fully the
country s gas reserves, determine the optimal pace of exploitation, and help
renew the interest of foreign oil companies to resume the search for oil.
Since the required investments are likely to be capital-intensive and lumpy,
they would need to be properly planned under a phased priority program. The
Government has been slow to recognize this need, but is now endeavoring (with
IDA and ADB assistance) to formulate an appropriate energy sector investment
program. The implementation of appropriate energy conservation measures and
the setting of energy prices at economically efficient levels will also be
critical.
15.      The growing problems of rural poverty and unemployment must also
be addressed directly. Fifty percent of the rural population is landless,
and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly since the 1970s
with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force finding gainful employment.
Efforts to increase foodgrain production is expected to help mitigate, to
some extent, the unemployment and income problems in the rural areas. In
view of the large projected growth of the work force, however, measures must



-6-
also be taken simultaneously to develop other sectors, such as fisheries,
livestock, forestry and non-foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial
sector -- especially small-scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes
generated in one sub-sector will generate effective demand for the output of
others.
16.     Studies of the industrial sector have highlighted the distorting
effects of existing trade and industrial policies on resource allocation in
the sector. An ongoing program of studies is expected to lead to a medium-
term program of actions to be implemented --- including modifications in the
existing tariff structure, domestic indirect. taxation, investment incentives,
export policies, and the mechanisms for industrial promotion and planning.
The Government's New Industrial Policy, announced in 1982, provides for a
greater role of the private sector in economic development. Many of the key
elements of this policy are already being implemented, including the divest-
ment of major segments of the jute and textile industries to the private
sector.
17.     The Government has revised the Second Five-Year Plan in the light of
the sharp deterioration of the external environment, and its recent Annual
Development Programs (ADPs) have reflected mrrore realistic assessments of
likely resource availability. A "core program" of projects amounting to
around 75% of the ADP has been identified to ensure that high-priority
activities are not disrupted by possible further adjustments to changing
circumstances. This approach has already hEilped project implementation
during FY83, but it should be recognized that the investment program is
extremely small in relation to the total needs of the economy. As external
assistance will continue to be constrained, there is an urgent need for a
sustained and intensive domestic resou,rce mcbilization effort, consistent
with the initiative taken in the FY83 budget to raise tax revenues, reduce
subsidies and improve the financial performance of public enterprises. In
the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to reduce its present
dependence on import duties, thereby improving the elasticity of the tax
system. In addition, private savings should be stimulated through the main-
tenance of appropriate interest rate policies and improvements in the banking
and credit system.
18.     Realization of the Government's objectives will also require improve-
ments in development administration. There is a critical need to strengthen
the capacity for policy formulation and project implementation, streamline
administrative procedures, and improve decision making processes.
Recognizing that local government bodies can play an effective role in the
development effort, the Government has decided to decentralize a number of
planning and administrative functions t:o the up-graded Thana (Sub-District)
level. Accordingly, sub-district: administrations are being reorganized and
strengthened to enable them to take on most development activities at the
local level. The implementation and impact of this policy will need to be
closely monitored.



-7-
External Debt
19.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium- and long-term (M&LT) debts has not
been a major problem in the past, but will become a heavier burden in the
next few years as debts incurred in the first years after independence are
increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on external
public M&LT debt are expected to rise from 6.8% of export earnings (goods and
services, including workers' remittances) in FY82 to 11.8% in FY84 and 13.7%
in FY86. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt servicing obligations
will remain modest over this period, rising slowly from 9.7% of the total in
FY83 to 10.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding and
undisbursed is projected to increase from 30.4% in FY82 to 36.3% in FY86.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$154.41 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan (US$54.9 million) and credit
(US$37.45 million) to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence were approved in 1974. As of
March 31, 1984, 74 new credits have been approved, totaling US$2,453.59
million; of these, US$874.72 million have been for import credits (eleven
imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of March 31,
1984. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three
investments (for a shipbuilding, investment promotion and leather
manufacturing) have been approved.
21.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(22 of the projects approved as of March 31, 1984, and two fertilizer import
credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Government's
priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that
provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities. In
addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being placed upon com--
plementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is assisting in rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity and
distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of
existing industrial capacity. IDA is supporting increased production of
natural gas to substitute for imported fuels as well as exploration and
promotion of oil and gas to meet growing demand for commercial energy.
Assistance for developing telecommunications is designed to improve the
efficiency of a wide-range of economic and social activities.



-8-
22.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eleven imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imba:Lance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project, a
textile industry rehabilitation project, several DFC and small-scale industry
projects and two IFC investments.
23.     The enormity of Bangladesh's populat-on problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
24.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily. Project disbursements have 'Lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA
and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision
in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assis-
tance both under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to
improve planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
25.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a substantial portion of local currency expenditures.
PART III - FINANCIAL RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS) AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
26.     Bangladesh's economy suffers from severe structural imbalances.  The
country's domestic savings are inadequate to finance its investments, and its
foreign exchange earnings are similarly insufficient to cover import
requirements. Export earnings in recent years averaged less than one third
of import payments; aid has financed the equi.valent of 60% of imports. The
external resource gap cannot be expected to narrow significantly over the
coming years -- even with growing import substitution in the case of
foodgrains, fertilizers and energy -- because of the limited and uncertain
export prospects for jute and the small base from which non-traditional
exports are now beginning to grow. Similarly, in view of Bangladesh's
poverty, even strong domestic financial resource mobilization efforts will
not, in the short to medium term, permit a major reduction of the domestic



-9-
savings gap. In spite of substantial intensification of the domestic finan-
cial resource mobilization effort and increasing workers' remittances over
the past five years, gross national savings still constitute only about 6% of
GNP, reflecting the low level of average incomes (US$ 140 per capita).
Although the investment rate, at about 16% of GNP in FY83, is low, external
aid finances about 80% of total investments; the savings/investment gap has
generally been in the range of 8-10% of GNP since FY75, but has reached as
high as 14% in FY82.
27.     Bangladesh's already limited capacity to finance imports has been
further reduced recently by a combination of unfavorable factors beyond its
control: sharply increased petroleum prices, declining jute export prices,
and the world economic recession. The country's terms of trade deteriorated
by more than 30% between FY80 and FY82, causing export earnings to decline
despite an 18% increase in export volume during the same period. The problem
was compounded by the deterioration in the international aid climate.
Overall aid flows to Bangladesh stagnated in real terms, while disbursements
of commodity aid in particular declined significantly. The proportion of
commodity assistance disbursements to project aid disbursements has fallen
from 1.3 in FY79 to an estimated 0.7 in FY84. Given the heavy dependence of
Government revenues on counterpart funds generated by the sale of aid-
financed commodity imports and on import duties and sales taxes, the sharp
contraction in imports intensified the pressure on public finances.
Budgetary Management and Resource Mobilization
28.     Initially attempting to sustain planned investments without having to
reduce average consumption levels, the Government covered the external
financing gaps of FY81 and FY82 by running down foreign exchange reserves and
resorting to commercial short-term borrowings. However, once these short-
term expedients for avoiding internal adjustments had been exhausted, the
Government reacted with determination. Seeking to achieve greater efficiency
of resource mobilization and utilization, it initiated domestic adjustment
measures in FY83 which helped restore financial and monetary stability in the
short term and permitted continued implementation of the most important parts
of the development program under conditions of financial stability. As noted
in paragraph 9, the size of the FY83 adjustment package amounted to an
impressive 2.3% of the GDP (Tk 6 billion). The FY84 Budget sought to con-
solidate the revenue gains made in the preceding year, while helping to set
the stage for a broadened resource mobilization effort in the future.
Impact on Proiect Implementation
29.     The resource constraints experienced by Bangladesh have had a strong
detrimental impact on project implementation. Inadequate financial resources
in FY81 and FY82 necessitated across-the-board fund rationing for all
development undertakings and led to serious funding shortages for individual
projects and delays in their implementation. Of the projects in the FY82
ADP, for example, 228 were targeted for completion, but only 133 could
actually be completed in the course of the year. The average time taken to
complete projects lengthened significantly, leading to an escalation of costs



-10 -
so that returns were reduced below those originally estimated. The average
disbursement percentage on IDA's project aid commitments declined from 19.4%
of total outstanding project aid commitments at the beginning of the year in
FY79 to 12.3% in FY83. Similarly, the disbursement rate for project aid from
the Asian Development Bank fell from an average of 15-16% in 1978-1980 to
10.6% in 1981 and only 8.4% in 1982. Government estimates show that actual
project aid utilization reached only 78% of the budgeted level in FY82.
30.      To overcome financial constraints to project implementation, the FY83
Budget, in addition to the revenue measures stated above, provided for
several major reforms of the budgetary process.  The number of projects,
which had increased to around 1,700 by FY82, was reduced to 1,182. In order
to establish an order of priority and to insulate key sectors and projects
from the disruptive effects of shortfalls in revenues, the Government intro-
duced the concept of a core program of projects which would be given priority
in funding. Taka release procedures for these core projects were
streamlined. These reforms were followed by further measures in FY84. The
number of projects was reduced again to 910, including, as indicated in
paragraph 11 above, a core program of 435 high-priority projects accounting
for 73% of the total ADP. Special block allocations were provided for fund-
ing new technical assistance projects and for customs and sales tax payments
to facilitate the clearance of aid financed imports.
Medium-Term Outlook and Requirements
31.     While Bangladesh will benefit from the gradual world economic
recovery, the outlook is for a difficult period ahead. Largely due to the
relatively slow recovery in imports and economic growth, the external
payments situation in FY84 and FY85 is expected to be manageable.
Thereafter, however, there will be increasing pressure on the balance of
payments and foreign exchange reserves as a result of a significant increase
in interest and amortization payments on extesrnal debt and rising repurchase
obligations to the IMF. The Government will continue to be faced with finan-
cial resource constraints, both external and domestic, and will need to
strengthen its efforts to mobilize increased domestic financial resources and
to ease the external payments constraint by promoting and diversifying
exports. There are limits, however, tc what can be accomplished in these
areas in the short term. Meanwhile, a continued substantial inflow of con-
cessional external capital will be required to cushion the severity of the
adjustment process and to sustain even a very modest growth in investment and
in per capita income. As leader of the Bangladesh Aid Group, IDA is
encouraging other donors to alter the composition of their assistance so as
to provide a higher proportion of fast disbursing aid and also finance a
larger share of local costs of projects. This would significantly facilitate
project implementation by alleviating the constraints on the availability of
local currency financing.



-11-
32.     While more intensified resource mobilization efforts by the
Government and the provision of more rapidly disbursing aid by external
donors will help ease Bangladesh's financial constraints, greater efforts
will have to be made over the next few years to improve project implementa-
tion so as to ensure that scarce concessional aid is effectively utilized.
Particular attention will have to be paid to the removal of administrative
and procedural bottlenecks which hinder efficient project implementation.
Some of these are discussed in Part IV of this Report. The Government's
effort to address these issues would be supported by the proposed
Supplemental Assistance Credit.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
33.     Following the approval of the Special Action Program by the Executive
Directors on February 22, 1983, IDA staff reviewed projects under implementa-
tion and identified seven projects whose implementation could be substan-
tially helped by increasing IDA's share of project cost financing. In the
case of three projects, this could be accommodated by raising disbursement
percentages within the existing credit amounts. In the case of four
projects, however, external assistance available is inadequate to ensure
their timely implementation. The proposed Supplemental Assistance Credit of
SDR 28.7 million (US$30.0 million equivalent) would therefore augment the
existing external resources available and enable the government to implement
these projects within agreed timetables without having to resort to any major
further cuts in its other high priority investment program. The proposed
Credit was appraised in January 1984. Negotiations took place in Washington,
D.C. in early May 1984; the Government's negotiating team was led by Mr. Q.S.
Alam, Joint Secretary, External Resources Division of the Ministry of
Finance.
The Proposed Credit
34.     The following table shows the projects included under the proposed
credit, amounts of supplemental financing proposed for allocation to each
project and the changes in share of project costs financed through external
sources.



-12-
Proposed             Share of Project Costs
Supplemental        Financed by External Sources
Financing Amounts    (excluding taxes and duties)
Projects (Credit No.)                    (US$ million)      Appraisal   Current   Proposed
(1)               (2)         (3)         (4)
1.  Muhuri Irrigation (725-BD)              :10.0              83.4%      56.5%       72.6%
2. Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation (1023-BD)               5.0              80.2%       65.7%       75.1%
3.  Chittagong Port (1247-BD)                7.0               65.9%      72.0%        80.2%
4.  Rural Electrification (1262-BD)          8.0               70.5%      69.6%       84.3%
Total                                       30.0
35.     The Muhuri Irrigation and Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation projects
have experienced cost overruns. In addition to being affected by the overall
financial constraints which the country has experienced, cost overruns in
these projects have resulted from (i) delays in project implementation;
(ii) changes in exchange rates; and (iii) some under-estimation of costs at
the time of appraisal. Specific reasons in each case are given in Annex IV.
Management inefficiency and bureaucratic bottlenecks (see paras. 45-54) are
important factors in the implementation delays of these and other projects.
In addition, during critical stages of the implementation of these projects,
Bangladesh experienced a period of political instability resulting in fre-
quent project management changes which affected continuity and hindered
decision making at the project as well as at higher levels of the civil
service.
36.     In the case of the Chittagong Port and Rural Electrification
projects, despite delays of varying length in their implementation, revised
project costs remain within appraisal estimates. However, due to the
Government's financial constraints an increase in IDA's share of project cost
financing is required to ensure that: the projects would be implemented
without further major delays. The f-'ollowing provides a brief summary of the
four projects and of the proposed supplemental financing. Annex IV gives
further details.
Muhuri Irrigation (725-BD)
37.     The Muhuri Irrigation project was designed to provide irrigation,
improved flood control and drainage, and agricultural supporting services
over a gross area of about 99,000 azres (a net agricultural area of 67,000
acres). It consists mainly of the construction of a closure dam and a
regulator in the Feni River.  An IDA credit of US$21.0 million for this
project was approved on June 16, 1977. T'he Canadian International



-13-
Development Authority (CIDA) and European Economic Community (EEC) con-
tributed US$8.6 million equivalent and US$5.6 million equivalent
respectively.
38.     Implementation of this project, which was delayed by about three
years primarily because of delays in the construction of the Feni regulator
resulting from delays in construction drawings, equipment procurement and
recruitment of a contractor team, is now progressing satisfactorily. Project
costs (net of taxes and duties) have increased since appraisal from
US$42.2 million to US$62.3 million, partly due to delays in implementation,
but also due to a substantial under-estimation during appraisal of the cost
of the closure dam (see Annex IV). While the closure dam was estimated to
cost US$8.4 million, bids received show that these costs are likely to be
about US$25.7 million resulting in substantial shortfall in the project's
financing plan. At the time of appraisal, the external financing for the
project was expected to be about 83% of total costs (net of taxes and
duties). In the absence of additional financing, this share would drop to
about 56%, leaving a substantial gap, which the Government will be unable to
finance without reducing resources for other high-priority projects in its
investment program. To avoid that possibility, the proposed supplemental
financing of US$10.0 million equivalent would help finance part of the
project cost overruns and would increase total external cost sharing in this
project to about 73%. Despite the substantial cost increases, the project
remains viable with an economic rate of return of 14%. The project would be
completed by about June 30, 1986.
Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation (1023-BD)
39.     The project is designed to improve the performance of three existing
fertilizer plants located at Ghorasal, Chittagong and Fenchuganj. It also
includes the construction of a training center at Ghorasal and a provision
for import of critical plant spares, catalysts and chemicals to meet the
needs of the plant over a two-year period. A credit of US$29.0 million for
this project was approved on May 20, 1980. The Government of the Netherlands
agreed to contribute US$4.7 million equivalent.
40.     Project implementation, although delayed, is proceeding satisfac-
torily and is expected to be completed by June 1985, about two years after
original schedule. The total project cost (net of taxes and duties) has
increased by about 27% from US$42.0 million equivalent to about US$53.4
million equivalent (see Annex IV for details). This rise has been mainly a
result of changes in the scope of improvements needed at the Ghorasal and
Chittagong factories and the scope of the project's training component. To
provide greater flexibility in plant operations, the Ghorasal Plant now
includes the installation of a gas turbine generator and the Chittagong Plant
includes facilities for imported phosphoric acid for producing triple
superphosphate. In addition, the Government has decided to expand the train-
ing component of this project to establish a National Fertilizer Training
Institute (NFTI) at the Ghorasal Plant. The first phase of NFTI's construc-



-14-
tion and other training facilities are expected to cost about US$3.8 million
compared to about US$1.0 million estimated at appraisal. The Government of
the Netherlands is expected to increase its participation in this project
from US$4.7 million to US$6.1 million. The proposed supplemental IDA financ-
ing of US$5.0 million equivalent would finance part of the increased cost of
the rehabilitation of the Ghorasal factory and would increase the overall
level of external financing, based on current project costs, from 65.7% to
75.1%. This compares with an 80.2% exl:ernal financing share projected during
appraisal. The Closing Date wouLd be postponed from December 31, 1984 to
June 30, 1986. The rates of return for the Ghorasal and Chittagong plants at
appraisal were estimated at 92% and 18% respectively.  These have been
reduced to 38% and 10%.
Chittagong Port (1247-BD)
41.     The project is designed to expand facilities at the Chittagong Port
in order to accommodate the volume of container traffic expected through the
early 1990's. The project comprises: the construction of two multipurpose
berths with back-up facilities and container handling equipment; the provi-
sion of additional cargo handling equipment; the development of equipment
maintenance facilities; improvements to the Training Institute; the provision
of technical assistance to train skilled laborers and managers; to establish
a preventive maintenance program and to develop a management information
system; and the provision of var:ious engineering services. A credit of
SDR 54.0 million (US$60.0 million equivalent at exchange rates then
prevalent) was approved on May 18, 1982.
42.     Project implementation has been slower than anticipated.  The con-
tract for construction of the two multipurpose berths was awarded eight
months behind schedule and delays have been experienced in the appointment of
consultants in charge of construction supervision. At appraisal, project
costs were estimated at US$91.0 million (net of duties and taxes). This
amount is now estimated at US$85.0 milLion because of an expected reduction
in the cost of construction of the multipurpose berths. In 1983, Finland
extended a US$5.0 million grant :Eor the acquisition of some of the cargo
handling equipment included in the project. Despite the savings, and the
additional external funding available from Finland, the proposed supplemental
financing of US$7.0 million is needed to ensure that further delays in
project implementation are avoided. The proposed supplemental IDA financing
would increase the share of external financing in this project from about 72%
to slightly above 80% of revised project costs (net of duties and taxes). At
the time of appraisal, the project's economic rate of return was estimated at
23%. The impact of delays in implementation on project benefits were
moderated by, among other factors, reduced construction costs. The economic
rate of return is now expected to be about 21%.



-15-
Rural Electrification (1262-BD)
43.     The Rural Electrification Project provides for the installation of
new electricity distribution networks and the rehabilitation of existing
systems in seven PBS areas (Palli Bidyut Samity or Rural Electrification
Societies). The project also supports the establishment of new member-owned
PBS cooperatives in each of the seven areas. The average PBS area has a
population of about 800,000 and about 140,000 households, contains about 750
existing irrigation pumps and about 430 small and medium industries within an
area of about 400 square miles. A credit of SDR 36.0 million (US$40.0 mil-
lion equivalent at exchange rates then prevalent) for this project was
approved on June 10, 1982.
44.     The project is being implemented by the Rural Electrification Board
of Bangladesh (REB). Procurement of the first tranche of material was
approved in May 1983, about four months behind schedule. REB has now
received the equipment and materials needed for the completion of about 25%
of project works and construction began in early 1984, only slightly behind
schedule. Steps necessary for the institutional development component of the
project have been taken in three of the PBS areas and land necessary for
construction of PBS headquarters has been selected and the acquisition
process begun in five of the PBS areas.   Total project cost estimates have
slightly declined from US$56.7 million to US$54.2 million (net of taxes and
duties). The original IDA credit of US$40.0 million constituted
approximately 70.5% of total project costs (net of taxes and duties). The
additional funding of US$8.0 million proposed for this project would raise
IDA's share to 84.3% of total eligible costs and thereby assist in ensuring
that this project is implemented according to the current schedule. There
has been no major change since appraisal in the valuation of costs and
benefits which would result in any significant change in the project's
economic rate of return. At appraisal, the project's economic rate of return
was estimated to range from 11% to 17% (depending on the split of incremental
demand between replacement and generated consumption) based on savings to be
realized from use of electricity in comparison with other sources of energy.
The economic benefits of the project would be significantly higher if addi-
tional output resulting from electrification were also taken into account.
General Project Implementation Issues
45.     As indicated in paragraphs 29 and 30 above, the severe financial
constraints facing Bangladesh have affected the pace of project
implementation. To adjust to limited resource availability, the Government
in FY82 and FY83 substantially cut the size of its Annual Development Program
(ADP) and increased its effort to mobilize resources. While these steps are
helping to alleviate the financial problems affecting project implementation,
there are a number of other non-financial, mainly administrative and proce-
dural constraints, that hinder efficient implementation. The Government has
taken several measures to improve public administration, including reducing
the number of Government agencies, increasing operational autonomy for public



-16-
sector enterprise managers and delegating planning and implementation respon-
sibilities for some development activities to 'Local governments. The
Government has also made progress in delegating financial responsibilities to
line ministries and in simplifying local fund release and customs clearance
procedures. These and other measures which are supported by the proposed
credit are outlined below.
46.     Project Approval Process.  The Government's approval of the Project
Proforma (PP), an internal government document, is a prerequisite to the
release of ADP funds for individual projects, While steps have been taken to
streamline the PP approval process, the time required can still range up to
six months or more. In some cases, approved PPs do not fully reflect under-
standings reached with the donors as specified in appraisal reports or legal
agreements.
47.     One of the reasons for delays, and of possible inconsistencies
between the PP and the negotiated documents, has been that the Project
Evaluation Committee (PEC) 1/ considered the PP at a relatively late stage in
the project cycle. The PEC was formally apprised of the project only after
negotiations with the donor had been concluded; as some of the members of the
PEC were first exposed to the project at this time, differences of view on
aspects of projects often arose. The Govermaent now requires the preparation
of a "preliminary PP" and its review by PEC prior to project appraisal by
donors. A draft of the final PP is also expected to be available at the time
of negotiations. Furthermore, the Government has instituted a regulation
establishing a limit within which the various steps in the proforma approval
processes would have to be completed. The Government plans to reduce the
timing of each step so as to ensure that PPs are approved by the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) within 90 days following
negotiations, taking into account any changes that might result from
negotiations. An understanding has also been reached that any discrepancy
between the donors' appraisal reports and Xl would be resolved before a PP is
presented to ECNEC for final approval.
48.     Restrictive Government Directives.  Despite the prior approval of the
PP, which authorizes expenditures for all project-related items, directives
are nevertheless issued periodically restricting certain categories of
expenditures, such as the purchase/use of ve'hicles and equipment and the
hiring of staff. These directives usually do not discriminate between the
I/ PEC is a technical review committee consisting of high-level repre-
sentatives of the Planning Commission, t!ne External Resources Division
(ERD) of the Ministry of Finance, the Implementation Monitoring &
Evaluation Division, the Establishment Division and the Ministry respon-
sible for the project. PEC's, review of the PP and its recommendation are
required before the PP is formally considered and approved by the
Executive Committee of the Naltional. Economic Council.



-17-
recurrent and the investment budget and do not usually take account of any
special circumstances affecting a particular project. Exemptions can be
granted, upon petition, by the President. To minimize the impact of these
directives on project implementation, the Government, on April 16, 1984,
issued a circular relaxing existing restrictions on the procurement of jeeps,
pick-ups, and specialized vehicles required for projects included in the
Government's core program so that those items, when included in an approved
PP, can be purchased without additional approval at a higher level. The
control on cars and micro-buses, however, is still maintained to ensure that
the agencies concerned fully utilize their existing fleet of vehicles and to
avoid procurement of non-essential new vehicles. Pending procurement of new
cars or micro-buses, the project entities would be provided adequate tran-
sport facilities from the Government's or the responsible agency's existing
fleet of vehicles. Restrictions on the hiring of major categories of techni-
cal staff also have been relaxed. The project entities can now hire techni-
cal and skilled personnel included in the approved PP without prior approval.
While the issuance of restrictive directives may at times be necessary, it is
important to ensure that the benefits of such restrictions are not exceeded
by the cost of implementation delays. Therefore, the Government would, from
time to time, on its own initiative or as requested by IDA, review those
directives which in IDA's opinion unduly restrict project related
expenditures, and introduce changes, within a time frame acceptable to IDA,
as may be necessary to facilitate project implementation (Section 3.07 (a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.     Decentralization of Financial Responsibility.  Excessively central-
ized administrative procedures have proven detrimental to efficient financial
resource utilization and project implementation. The Government has
initiated a program to decentralize financial authority and responsibilities
to the ministries, divisions, departments, autonomous agencies and project
implementing entities. Budgetary allocations for approved projects are
released by ministries to autonomous government agencies every three months
for the first three quarters of a fiscal year; for the fourth quarter, prior
approval of the Ministry of Finance is required to ensure that sufficient
financial resources are available. Within these budgetary limits these
agencies have full freedom in spending and disbursing funds. While the
extent of delegation within individual autonomous agencies differs, most
delegate spending authorities fully to entities directly responsible for
project implementation. Ministries and departments that are directly respon-
sible for project implementation are authorized to spend up to their full
annual budgetary allocations without seeking prior approval from the Ministry
of Finance. However, with the exception of departments such as Public Works,
Roads and Highways that have authority to issue cheques, bills are submitted
to the Government Accounting Office (GAO), who makes the actual payments,
after being satisfied that the expenditures are in conformity with estab-
lished rules. To reduce the time taken by the GAO to issue cheques, the
review and auditing functions are being transferred to the ministries and
departments concerned. Under this system, one Chief Accounting Officer,
appointed within each ministry or division, exercises the powers and func-



-1 8-
tions of the Accountant General. This program is being implemented in a
phased manner. During FY84, eiglht ministries/divisions have set up their own
accounts offices. The agencies and the autonomous agencies which have so far
benefited from this decentralization of financial authority are responsible
for the bulk of development projects that are currently under implementation.
50.     Project Monitoring.  Monitoring of project implementation is weak.
The task of monitoring implementation is entrusted to the Implementation
Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED). IMED collects a large amount of
information from project implementing units, typically on a monthly basis,
but these data are not yet utilized in a fashion that helps to identify
solutions and to ensure timely corrective actions for specific projects.
IMED requires considerable institutional strengthening to fulfill adequately
its intended functions of monitoring and evaluating project implementation.
IDA staff are now assisting the Government in preparing a training program
for IMED staff and in preparing a technical assistance project which would
help improve IMED's procedures in gathering and analyzing information related
to project implementation.
51.     Technical Assistance Problems.  The identification and processing of
technical assistance (TA) proposals typically encounter lengthy delays. With
recent improvements in budgetary allocations for TA,1/ this situation should
improve. However, there remains the need for a central unit within the
Government which could take a more active role in expediting the processing
of TA requests and in answering questions from project authorities/donors on
procedures and contract conditions. The unfamiliarity of most project
authorities with appropriate benefits, remuneration and contractual terms for
foreign consultants is another major impediment to timely and efficient
utilization of available TA. These and other institutional concerns related
to TA coordination are being addressed under IDA's Fifth Technical Assistance
Credit (1440-BD) approved on February 2, 1984. While a final decision on a
central unit to be responsible for TA concerns will have to await the comple-
tion by September 30, 1984 of an overall review that is being carried out
under the Fifth TA Project, the Government, in all likelihood, will assign
these responsibilities to the Technical Assistance Coordinating Committee
(TACC) of the Ministry of Finance.
52.     A different kind of a problem that consultants financed under TA
frequently face is their inability to obtain adequate logistical support.
Consultants spend considerable amounts of time in obtaining housing, office
space, vehicles, and counterpart staff support. Together with the TA review
referred to in the preceding paragraph, the Government has also undertaken to
1/ Rather than budgeting each individual TA undertaking as a separate
project in the ADP, a block allocation is now provided to accommodate all
TA projects. This will provide for greater flexibility in the allocation
and approval of funds for specific TA projects.



-19-
review its mechanism for providing logistical support and to explore ways of
improving and expediting such support.
53.     Contract Approval Process.  Lengthy delays in awarding contracts for
equipment procurement and civil works and for the appointment of consultants
are a major factor affecting the implementation of many ongoing projects. In
order to remedy this situation, the Government would review, by no later than
December 31, 1984, its procedures for contract awards and for the appointment
of consultants with a view to expediting action in these regards and there-
after to implement the recommendations of this review in a manner and within
a time frame satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.07 (d) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). That the Government has made satisfactory arrangements
for undertaking this review would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Section 4.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
54.     Delays in Claiming Reimbursement.  Agencies are often slow in
processing fund withdrawal applications and in claiming reimbursement from
donors for expenditures incurred. The Government has recently established a
unit within the Ministry of Finance to monitor project expenditures and to
assist implementing agencies in expediting submission of reimbursement
claims. It is headed by a Deputy Secretary and three budget officers. By
June 30, 1985, the Government would review the performance of this unit with
a view to further strengthening this unit as necessary within a time frame
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.07 (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Credit Allocation
55.     The proceeds of the proposed credit would be allocated to the four
projects in the amounts indicated in the first column of the table shown in
paragraph 34. These supplemental funds would be made available to the
project implementing entities under similar terms and conditions as those
applied to the original credits. The maturity dates for the amounts allo-
cated to each project would be the same as for the original credits. The
relevant sections of the original development credit agreements, including
their amortization schedules, would be amended to incorporate the supplemen-
tal financing proposed for each project.
Procurement and Disbursements
56.     Procurement procedures for all projects would remain the same as
under their original credits. Only in the Rural Electrification Project
would an amendment be made to allow IDA financing of installation costs and
equipment procured under acceptable local procedures. This project's disbur-
sement schedule would also be amended to allow disbursements against these
items. In the case of the other three projects included under the proposed
credit, disbursement percentages for appropriate categories would be
increased. These are detailed in Annex IV. Retroactive financing not



-20-
exceeding 10% of the amounts allocated for each project would be allowed for
expenditures after January 1, 1984. Special Accounts within agreed limits
would be set up for each of the projects included under the proposed credit.
The establishment of these accounts would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Justification
57.     Bangladesh is taking appropriate measures to deal with its current
financial problems. The country meets the criteria established under the
Special Action Program. Progress achieved within the past two years in
implementing short-term adjustment policies has contributed significantly
toward restoring financial stability to the economy. However, given the
country's limited resource base, the severe structural imbalance between its
savings and investments and between its import requirements and foreign
exchange earning capacity, its vulnerability to external economic shocks, and
its extreme poverty, further structural adustments to the economy will
require time. In the medium term, Bangladesh requires substantial inflow of
concessional external capital to cushion the severity of the adjustment
process and to sustain even a very modest growth in investment and per capita
income.
58.     The projects intended to benefit under the proposed Supplement
Assistance Credit are all of high priority within the Government's investment
program. The proposed credit would make it possible for the Government to
complete these projects within the revised time schedule without having to
divert resources from other high-priority projects in its investment program.
Given that the Government over the past two years has already reduced its
investment program substantially, any further reduction in its investment
program would be detrimental to Bangladesh"s development efforts.
Justification for individual projects is provided in Annex IV.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT'S AND AUTHORITY
59.     The draft Development Credit Agreemient between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.     Special conditions of the proposed credit are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Conditions of credit effectiveness would be: (a) making
arrangements satisfactory to IDA for undertaking a review of the Government's
procedures for equipment supply and civil works contracts and for appointment
of consultants (Section 4.01(a) of the draf-t Development Credit Agreement);
and, (b) establishment of special accounts (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



-21-
61.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
May 30, 1984



-2 2-                                             Annex I
Page 1
A S L ZE 3A
3ANGLAOES- SOCIAL LNDICATOS DATA SBEET
JAhCLADES                                  ILERENCE  OiLOOP5 (WELiCTED AVERACi37  a-
KOST                       (MOST AECENT ESTIMATE) /b
*  aSCET             LoW ZICOKE              MlDOL.E ;NCOMC
960a b     97OZb  SSTIHA.E/           ASIA 4 VACIFIC            ASIA & PACiFIC
BEA(IS'UD sq. io)
TOTAL                                 1.44.0        44.o        L44.0
AGRICULTURAL                           95.2         97.0         97.5
Go   P WI CITA (US)                        4-0.0        60.0        140.0               276.7                      1026.6
EM3O cOnE?nON PfL CUITA
(KiILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           ..        28.0         49.0                398.4                       792.4
POIUSTION AM VITAL STAIESTZCS
POP.ATION,KID-YEAA (THOUSANDS)   53491.0         68117.0      90660.0 
URUN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)             5.1          7.6         Ll.6                21.5                        32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YUA  20DO (MILL)                                156.1
STATIONAY POPULATION (MILL)                                   430.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 10.                         371.     473.0            614.7                L61.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KY. ACRI. LAND              56L.9        702.5        90s.3               J63..        -             1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (5)
-L4 YRS                            44.3         46.3          .6                  36.6                        39.4
15-64 YRS                            52.5         51.L         54.i                59.2                         57.2
65 AND ASOVE                          3.2          2.7          2.6                  4-2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                 1.9          2.4          2.6                  1.9                         2.3
URBAN                                 3.6          6.3          6.5                  4.u                         3.9
CRUDE SIRTH RATE (PER rloIuS)           53.3        49.2         47.0                 29.3                        31.3
CRUDE UEATH RATE (PER TiiOUS)          :d.i         22.7         17.5                 10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.6          3.4         3.1                  2.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TOIOUS)              ..       373.0       1607.0
USERS (5 OF MAURIED WOKEN)              ..           .         1 2.0               6.d1                         46.5
FOOD AND NImTIOi
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71.100)                         106.0        lol.u         93.0                111.4                       .25.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (5 Of REQUIREMENTS)         87.0         35.0         34.0                 9S.1                       114.:
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             44.U         43.u         42.0                 56.7                        57.9
OF 'MICH ,NINAL AND PULSE            9.0          9.0          7.0/c               L3.9                        !4.1
CHILO (AOES L-4) DEATH RATE            :4.9         23.0         19.7                 L2-1                         '.
REALTm
LIFE EXPECT. AT 3lRTH (YEARS)          37.3         41S.         47.d                 59.6            5     U       . 2
INFANT NORT. XATr (PER THOUS)         159.0        .50.3        134.7                 96.%                        64.!
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
rOtAL                                  *-         45.0         53.0/d              32.9                        37.1
URBAN                                  ..         13.0         15.07T               70.6                        54.*
RURAL                                  *-         47.u         55.o.7              22.2                        2b.
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
( OF POPULATION)
rOTAL                                              6.0          5.J/.              16.1
URSAN                                  ..           ..         40.07V               72.7                        .7.,
RURAL                                    *          * -.                             4. 7                       43.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 8. 430.0    10940.0                       3506.3                       7771.9
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON                   ..      76810.0    24450.0               4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER FiOSPITAL BED
TOTAL              '.                            7020.0/f   4500.3/c              1100.4                     '047.2
URBAN                                  ..         320.07T    630.07T              29d.4                       o51.1
RURAL                                   ..           ..    23360.07T             5941.6                      2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER dOSPITAL 3ED               ..            ..         ..                   ..                        27.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF ROUSEHOLD
URBAN                                  ..           :      ..*
NVERACE N0. OF PERSONS/ROOM
.OTAL                                  .             ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (S OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   .      .     .          3.5
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..



-23-                                                         Annex I
Page 2
T A 3 L c 3A
3ANCGLADESH              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
H1OST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIHATE) /b
ENb ECET                LOW INCOME              MIDDLE  :1Co11E
L960./A     !970_    ESTIMATE,_         ASIA a YACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLL.UNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     47.0         52.0         o2.0                96.1                       101.2
HALE                     60.0         6d.U         76.0                107.B                      106.0
FEMALE                   26.0         34.0         47.0                 82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      d.U         19.0         15.0                30.2                        44.9
HALE                      14.0        29.0         24.0                 37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                    1.0          d.0          6.0                 22.2                        44.D
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)              1.0         0.8         14.3                  2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 ..        45.0         44.0                 34.4                       32.7
SECONDARY                              ..         26.0         21.0                 L8.4                       23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                21.6         23.01h       26.0/c               53.5                        72.9
cowuBmWoaU
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               ..         0.4          0.4                  1.6                        9.7
RADIO KECEIVEKS/THOUSAND POP              ..         6.0          8.0                96.6                        113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..          ..          0.9                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PEZ. THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..          ..           4.7                 16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..          ..            ..                  3.6                         3..
LABOL FORC
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           19252.U      23611.0      32341.U
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     15.2         16.6         17.7                33.3                        33.o
AGR.ICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0         86.u         74.0                69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    3.0          3.U        1i.0                 15.d                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0         34.7         35.7                42.5                        36.6
HALE                                 58.7         55.9         57.0                54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                               11.4         11.9         13.0                29.6                        26.6
ECONOIMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3           1.4         1.3                  1.u                         1.1
INC    DJSTUXIWION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS             18.3/h         .-         14.6/1              16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS            44.571       44.1/i       42 .271             43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.97rh       8.77r        6.97                6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS             17.97h       19.67i       18.27i              17.5                        15.5
POETY  TARGET tYI
ESTI1ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..        L39.0/c             133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..        iii.o7i L1l.6                                   ;55.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOKE
-v- \.-. e. WAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                   ..                      178.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                  ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         &6.0/c              43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..         86.07i              51.7                        4L.1
.NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each Indicator are population-weighed arithmtic manm.  Cov@rage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not aniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960" refor to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' between .969 and
1971; and data for 'Xost Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; !d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1972; IL 1973; /h 1963; /L 1967; /.  1974.
'fay 1983



-24--
Annex I
Page 3
IEFESITIONS OF SOCIAL ISOiCACORt
tote     51Ihoost the data er.rat.ro.oucsgeea IFy Judgedth  tet-nhor tt  ad -tel lteItso id ls  he note  choIc psy cobe ineraionaly
comprabl  beauseof  it tck    F siisdta   defcnttln, and coeet  otd ty differen  cntIesi   n  anlgcadn.Me data sleenntelst,   isfa  It
4ecteodere of1 eaginda, , cd Ico  oe  Al,ad IIh...c-ertieeci   Yaordifft..ra.es  iets-e
The reaanegeus  t  ()th   at   outy  ruco  tesbject   --cy sod (2) acOoF    io lobtaaa  htgh.,t--teag   coIessta theIe ocunorIr-paf the
sobeoeccty loecfrfgh Dnom'iIhprec'gop where  Mdle d                                  rece  torchMr ieaand flddle fast' tee.hoscbcooo,    roe   el-u   ia
ati ts.In the referenc  grpc data the  croe  argphia  eo tatd artaot   en   o   ah Ic icao   n  aFa dtes  Iaolro  is  ot tt
gcyhas dato tot that inklicaco.  ti-eetecergofeocteasgtistdcsrsdeden thiehebl    ofdt                                                .sdi  tot...e.  cactIac sas  ha
earcad to  mIsing ocrgeog   of on   t  ctchaohr                  etotae   t  ol   rllI  oprn   h   au   foeld Icao  a                             -ais-                  b.h   unr   s
refarsorm gtouyt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yI
for  rup, pstues,osaet  n  kPiteheg  gardens. or d   ito,  Malie; 1910,                      cPaI ut   ae
1970 sod 1990 daa.I..ltto   a    osls  e -  otl  rIse  sdIotl     arlaa-    losi
ClIPFtOCAPIA (tt)    O f par oa1 -1 etIsata  aceten   ake   rer,sada  Ind ubi  and_pict  generahl adssilsdieta
i    Ptit, 1971, o 91, data.                                                                    hyIt lko  Ic  phsiianIdsshtsheltiposfd lg   eacipa l  tu9cdIs
care are nutIceldid.d tuya  haItim,   assetIb, Ifrad  heai,lt abd
GPriaPEosCegy (coal  anC lgoca  ptolumlnccatgtpnOhyra,  oiae stern  ,cusetadel Iet.)whchofe  i-ptIntsemda to  n
19h0, 1970  so'.               Id 1990 data.                                                         urbar ;  : hoaias  cid  AlICeI prcilIeealhsitl,an                   du
EOPIRGY tdc 1NS   05I , PER iIC                                                                        tpeiats   toaital  are i-Joe h.y.            o c   ot
Totl  aplaio.  li-far(thuttl)    A  u  Jly1;196,  97,  nd191                         dssaensea  Ota tl  ed-  otl  com,ber I of admseoJ  to yordi duargl
datae       g   III i.fIRru.ds f                                                                       i  otyia   doded.         h   ubeu   es
s960g ooores9        91  17,ad  91d0a                                                             cestCe  ofdtPousehu I        persuc  per     ,i .ou .h.d  -. totl,  r   Ps,ab  rua
roc      980cPojc iutos                                                                     -  I icohuld cutIs   oPagopo.t cdeaatocasit,gqatr
years.The paseter  forII farc lity rat  also tattreI       cesuucp   parts.ld~ddbI                                                  fI
asuigdcInEnfriiy  codtgt  Icueloian   atfui                                                     ArsnIh  cthlyIrr et ofb. d                     bltcs  R  oa,aea,sd  ua
pissniogl detfonce    ha,bh c-uctey i  shcsiget             c  ofbjll  thes dtic              oNCoctinidatga                 beltriytoiigqatsms eeeag
coshloafJIcca .uf auols   o   etlt   rnsfrpoeto   upse.ohuo    ra,adcrldsloartpcldoIs-ip.-:
results oogst.  Thu  it. arlar  ol aII,eri b    ats                                 oaaIurolen`ato
dciaubrYlaraarne  Clac...        utoneIrpeI        Olcet    hcPuucehc-no.aenfsleCosoa.eeefat
eachgenrotucisuserepace   coeifeasc Iy fbat          fcrr                             actieoualaostsrae"saarreige    feaetc
fuuuicaaoaatets    0si   sisc   h  pcais   hraor                                        rl  t  shc-aeyylainl  unl yleudscitrnagdbi
Yer__ttcayru ficociseseed-mayersin  ttiuty                                                 aiteacnappitot   blutr  boethFcfeil  uoo  ae
peiistdioIiaaetII  beiii, reached.                                                            e     pued ar pcho   total  sal   an   ece-Copsdadhus   coe
roeslsiotcay                                                                                         sdosiuetoiest   eat  lu  yas fpppondtrias    stso he
Yd ITiR  - 1911, 1971, and9       Y dat. thIii5 A                                                       sually o  It to1711I  yeeso  age   atespndseruease
tee so  As,  grIcuturalland    Compted da shesfe  ogej_nliurul  land                     gecrally  tetd
noI ..ly; 1960,  971 ao  C      toSO   - data.         lh-J.oraI--,-fticcl eb-ecIsn  0trec  uf1 secundaro   -  o--ocltsttu lo
PIualtl   w ..h-d prec)-Clien(It   srs    leIgaa  1-mc   o   ecncl,ldaril,utohrpeaas  bo   peaeInetd
doplaucireth       otIereo      oa      eoa   ostrte              o Itf ttalmd                    pJ.tIdsywdsccsyllshle   ynseso
papoaihos  ft 191-t,  dO-O ,h and .9i-f. aIpeuecagaof-ota.solsIIyuIiYc aed.   -I,sar  sooc.1
Crude hitti tote (par cloussod) - uetn.oi lice bIrths par                                               IIIuaacd ci nil
Ctud  teah toe (rt obosd) -  wua   eth    a        Itosn   of seid-yc                     faucs   eslarioso                 duaio)-eaegeoascaes   co
leuss ts9tdncsIon  ate-Ata ta e  ...het of00 duIdesuanail  eri                               ut y  -hatites.
fertiIty                                                                                                                                                    ..e.uulyfc-etacrgsedn   n15,17,ao  raoticeoa    olt  a  buado   ouetn  aeoasus
1991.          el-e,  ..  .                                                                    'l,ee bootecdJloe d is, donf-ir  an a  tIc year  thn  agla- ais   of.ed
Esilpanic-ccroe    AInu.-h.d                  nd)Awuluaco   senYepturs-setaras                                    .    h .c.fe .;d .aredc-ct perIsyobeapraist-ac
all sotriso  ame    Pnkoreage--ur.                                                         asyucchlocootln  i er lIu and efu-!latnr - Chp-d  itea-te              ...ugs ,
Indesof Fnd ytducc On  a  ulu190i-Ol-ldnu   e -aln                                             phI<ooiu  ..o eoe   rrr  ct   codn   co-tlnod pI. i   o  oale
ucoitdnucflfocaosla.rY-lnaldseac                                                           oeulytlupastes   urlaasb
IeadisIcaeDarpai        at.Csu  dsearplay   el   c.Cts   eulAttae   srCpt   a   erlsdn   h   utro
herdo  nhloalserg   ptodca CPrtca                0- feihot  16-N, i97-, s-d90
data.     6,  90   dIgod..                                                                   10,Cc FOt           IYIC2 ~      1  y  .  .   .
da.6     albl   apieermpie  oesi              .pout .n    -korslas                                 apu-gln  f  i  ages.  ifittoansInd aio.,             onrsar)a
ec 6ots,aodchages in d 1h981 dstipistldata    ed.ed,coptte.90   90ad18   as
qusP.     sse    cfo  poetn,  n   osl  nda_batc                                                      eae  rn'tY-fml   abrltsatp  uoagI                       fttl  sa   ir
sauestist   ttse    y  u   ae.opyilgclned   o   oIs ulutr  Ipret                                                                    d ao   oc   nfatn,ftcr,tn  e   s
Ceureera.'iI,L    (forstcctlseaalslycl  ptohs  ormniusaeuttt                                                      -tsreorpads   os  male, a.bl fesi  labor, fortea
allosatem  of  0 gran  us t Au oto- pan boph and  I0 grass of nsI ad-                       perentaes nf toal  mleon   fettl  popa Yet           - of  d al  sea  a  s sy
dancedi.1 f    960, 197s0l soPule  I.r.sp. ay   96-,170                     17
data.                                                                                   iNC~~d :""  ,  Is llShtifilhu 2hIII
foonirlac data deploc  feo- lfe  c ,let  R9td, 197)tand 19f1 data.                                boof-h.di.
9tALTh                                                                              tIOtOTh fallen It970I -
lie98oeeoco                                Ist   er        crg   obto   en   flitrsmn             i   oinn    siae   r   ay  ptams   tttso   aet   ees   o
so11 hlteth; 190  1970 an   91di,sol   aiorpce                                                                                 icnieal   atPan
Inet   utlb ytoe...e...d.-AralIeteo  Ifct   neroeIs_itd_ucuo  ustaIcoelnd15  prraiaf-rsosdeaI 
rest of age par thooscl lIce tieths; lol  . .7 so  199  data,  _~..TV eeo -l ut   p-cetn  ....s dee p,Is that -na TV                     ost- beta I-  to a-d-InIs
uceacoslootd astesoenathat  eas yrtecs   Itcreclee,preg,ad                           ilestiauiocetyeoi                       "tIloesle"Yof  sneeg -p-bl pit
Fha deydIn feochp g the  hastdy s eater  -asus.
Access tobeeaIaas   pnono   ouait                          toal ura,dn
rua  d Nsa  o   ope (oa,ubn   n   oalsee                   yort
disposa  at pacactela of teirnsspottne   opuicolos.  t eret  fd-d  -    Fe
sa  ieud  isnolcttl   nddsyec,atiseatiutsasuas,  fteooi  ad                                                           hellbt -Ticau
tosaINDeTRoOraaNdusasttb   ae-un    pos   roeuau   i                                                                                  tcmoAayl   dtoetoelpen
tiot                                                    I-  esat-aa-io  lososi lac_loca .                                                              ray 1990   It      I-idle



-25-                                                             ANNEX 1
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  91.55 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$140 (1982)
Amount
(million USS              Average Annual Increase (W)                  Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
in current prices)              (in constant orices)                             (in current prices)
Indicator                       FY82            FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-S0   FY80-82            FY60    FY70    FY75    FY80    FY82
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a             10,947               4.0       -0.6        5.5       3.5         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture /a                       5,107              3.1       -1.3         3.3       2.4          59.9    56.9    62.5    53.4    46.7
Industry /a                         1,506               7.9       -3.2         6.4       3.8           7.7      9.6    11.3    12.7    13.8
Services /a                         4,334               4.9        3.3         8.1       4.9          30.1    30.0    26.2    34.0    39.6
Consumption                          11,373                4.4       -0.7        6.0       3.5          92.4    92.8    99.2    98.0   103.9
Gross domestic investment             1,506              10.9      -10.9         2.0      -6.5           6.9    11.3       8.1    16.7    13.8
Exports of goods & nfs                   841               0.8     -11.7         3.4       9.3          10.0      8.3      3.0      7.8      7.7
Imports of goods & nfs                2,774               8.8      -12.0         6.1       1.4           9.3    12.5    10.3    22.5    25.3
Gross national savings                  -111             26.5      -17.7        22.1    -38.8            0.9      6.1      1.0      4.0    -1.0
Amount
(million US$                      Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
in current prices)                            (in current Prices)
FY82                          FY73        FY75        FY80       FY82
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                      627.0                         100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0
Primary /b                             193.9                          40.4        31.5        29.6       30.9
Manufactures                           433.1                          59.6        68.5        70.4       69.1
Merchandise imports                    2,587.0                         100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0
Food                                   360.8                          44.1        42.2        30.2       13.9
Petroleum                              560.6                           3.2        11.1        16.2       21.7
Machinery & equipment                  676.1                          13.8        11.5        23.0       26.1
Other                                  989.5                          38.9        35.2        32.0       38.2
FY74      FY75      FY76      FY77      FY78      FY79      FY80      FY81      FY82
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                          140.6    240.7    183.1    177.2    203.6    216.8    252.7            267.3    295.9
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                  7.9661   8.8759  14.8521  15.4667  15.1215  15.2228  15.4777   16.3447  20.0400
Export price index                                    104.5    119.0    103.4    108.9    126.5    160.9    198.9            175.7    147.7
Import price index                                    144.9    187.8    180.2    178.2    168.7    208.9    234.9            263.9    261.5
Terms of trade index                                   72.1      63.4      57.4      61.1      75.0      77.0      84.7       66.6      56.5
As % of GDP
(at current orices)
FY75      FY77      FY80        FY82
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                5.4       9.5       10.5        11.6
Current expenditure                                            4.5       7.8        7.7          8.4
Current surplus (+) or deficit C-)                            +0.9      +1.7      + 2.8       + 3.2
Capital expenditure                                            3.1       9.5       13.3        12.4
Foreign financing                                              2.4       6.0        8.2          8.0
FY60-70       FY70-75       FY75-80       FY80-82
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                             4.2          -0.6             6.5         3.3
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                  1.5           -3.0            4.0         0.9
- not available
- not applicable
/a At market prices.
lb Raw jute and tea.
ASADD
August 31, 1983



-26-                                                              Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                  Estim. Projected
FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83              FY84
Net exports of goods                                   -1,059    -903    -470    -859    -946  -1,650  -1,822  -1,960  -1,685   -1,790
Exports of goods                                        344      372      405      490      610      722      711      627      655        750
Imports of goods                                     -1,403  -1,275      -875  -1,349  -1,556  -2,372  -2,533  -2,587  -2,340   -2,540
Net exports of services                                     21     - 7       -29      -32      -28        4       15      -70      -90      -102
Workers' remittances                                        35       29       60      113      143      210      379      412      600       650
Gurrent account balance                                -1,003    -882    -439    -778    -831  -1.436  -1,428  -1.618  -i.175   -1.242
Direct private investment                                   ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
MLT loans (net)                                           498       498      238      398      420      581      513      498      540       607
Grants & grant-like flows                                 382      245       265      393      553      592      584      697      720       735
Other capital flows (net)                                  274       87       17      -39      -16      145      307      295      -57      -100
Change in reserves (- = increase)                        -151        53     -81        25    -124       119       24      128      -28         -
Internatioual reserves (end of period)                    266      213       294      269      393      274      250      122      150       150
Reserves as months of imports of next year               2.4      2.6      2.4      1.9       1.8      1.2      1.1      0.5      0.7       0.6
Actual
FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                       382      245      265      393      553      592      584      697
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                      519      564      268      435      477      631      562      539
Concessional                                        458      533      244      401      456      600      541      467
Bilateral                                        343      390       144      262      213      273      255
IDA                                              113      128        86       88      153      152      170      158
Other multilateral                                 3        15       14       51       91      177       83
Non-concessional                                     60       31       24       35       20       30       21       72
Official export credits                            19        -        -        -        -        -        -        4
IBRD
Other multilateral                                 27       18        6        2        3       17        3       26
Private                                            15       13       18       32       17       13       19       42
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding & disbursed (end of period)  1,355   1,797   2,053   2,571   2,951   3,216   3,615   3,979
Official                                         1,233   1,689   1,940   2,436   2,808   3,067   3,491   3,835
IBRD                                              55        55       55       55       55       55       55       55
IDA                                              255      380      466       554      707      859   1,027   1,181
Other                                            923   1,254   1,419   1,827   2,047   2,154   2,379   2,599
Private                                             122      108      113      135      142      149      124      144
Undisbursed Debt                                    1,019      948   1,016   1,335   1,659   1,718   2,103   2,666
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                            31       88       59       69       95       94       92       87
Interest                                             10       22       28       32       38       43       42       47
Payments as x of export earnings                        7.3    20.3    12.7    12.1    13.1    10.6    10.0    10.3
Payments as % of GNP                                    0.2      1.2      0.9      0.8      1.0      0.8      0.7      0.8
Average interest rate on new loans (E)
Official                                              2.0      1.6      1.5      1.3      1.3      1.2       1.6     1.8
Private                                               2.3      7.8      6.4      6.2      6.1      6.9    10.8       9.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                             36.2    42.2    40.6    38.6    36.3    34.2    35.0    35.6
Private                                              15.3    11.3    11.0        9.5    14.8    19.3         7.6    11.5
BANX GROUP EXPOSURE (E)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                      4        3        2        2        1        1        1
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements            -        -        -        -        -        -        -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                    -        1        5        4        4        3        4
IDA DOD/total DOD                                      18       21       22       21       24       26       28
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements            21       22       32       20       32       24       32
IDA debt service/total debt service                     3        2        5        5        4        6        7
IBRD/IDA Lending,
Dec. 1982 (mill. U8)
As x of Debt Outstanding
TERM STRUCTURE                                              at End of June 1982                                                     IBRD    IDA
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (T)                                                Outstanding & Disbursed                 54.9  1,270.0
Maturities due within 5 years                                    16.9                   Undisbursed                               -   1,047.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                   41.6                   Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed          54.9  2,317.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (E)
Interest due within first year                                    1.7
- not available
x                                                                                                                                ASADD
x                                                                                                                                August 31, 1983



-27-                              ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984)
AnLounts
Loan or                                                               (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                  US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                 Purpose               Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 31 credits fully disbursed                          54.90   924.18          -
487        1974  Bangladesh  Telecommunications II                -      20.00        0.62
527       1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                   -      62.00         1.39
542        1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                   -       27.00       9.36
605       1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation                  -      22.37        5.73
621        1976  Bangladesh  Agricultural & Rural Training    -           12.00        1.84
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                     -      16.00        5.70
632       1976  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                -       25.00       3.54
725       1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation                     -      21.00       10.11
735       1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II             -        5.00       0.60
765       1978  Bangladesh  Jute                                  -      21.00       11.23
787        1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II                 -       25.00       11.25
825        1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II              -        7.00        2.51
828        1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research                -        6.00        0.68
864       1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control              -       19.00      11.61
890        1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                -        6.00        3.18
912        1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                  -       25.00       15.75
921        1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II    -           32.00      23.14
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                     -       28.00       14.31
941        1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply & Sewerage II -           22.00       4.28
955        1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                    -       25.00       19.26
964        1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                          -       10.00       7.52
990        1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                       -      37.00       20.71
1001        1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II           -      20.00       13.03
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                   -       29.00       22.38
1032        1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation         -      20.00       13.12
1042        1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation               -       11.00       6.96
1054        1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -          40.00       30.56
1065/c     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III              -      35.00       22.79
1091/c      1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development            -      85.00       12.54
10967g     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport                  -      25.00       13.21
1117/c      1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II            -      50.00       27.55
11247W     1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV               -       16.00       8.99
1140/c      1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                       -       18.00      11.99
11477W     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                   -      40.00       23.14
1184/c      1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II          -      27.00       23.54
11947W     1982  Bangladesh  Imports Program X                     -     100.00        4.02
1204/c      1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer           -       15.00      13.62



--28-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. Bank LoarLs and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                               (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                   US$ Million /b
Number      Year   Borrower                Purpose               Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
1205/c      1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -           30.00       27.78
1215/c      1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II              -       27.00       22.96
1247/c      1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                      -       60.00       57.47
1254/c      1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power               -       92.00       88.01
1262/c      1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification                -       40.00       36.16
1287/c      1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                    -       68.00       64.38
1300/c      1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                   -      110.00       34.99
1301/c      1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                   -        6.00        4.66
1318/c      1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education St Training                     7.80        7.56
1321/c      1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III               -       35.00       34.59
13497c      1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                       -       12.00       11.23
1357/c      1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabili.tation          -      28.50       28.20
1384/c      1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II                 -      100.00       98.76
1396/c      1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural TrainiLng II            -        8.10        8.09
1399/c /d  1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                  -        20.00      19.58
1402/c /e  1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -             23.00      22.78
1440/c /d  1984  Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance            -        25.00      25.33
1455/c /f  1984  Bangladesh  Second Agricu,lturaL Research         -        24.50      24.90
Total                                                        54.90  2,645.45  1,049.19
of which repaid                                              -         2.76      -
Total now outstanding                                        54.90  2,642.69
Amount sold                                                 0.00       0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               54.90  2,642.69
Total undisbursed                                                               1,049.19
/a  The status of the projects listed in P'art A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
/c  Credits funded out'of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  Amounts
of principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in
effect on M.arch 31, 1984, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits
funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange
in effect on the dates of disbursement.
/d  Became effective in April 1984.
/e  Not yet effective.
If  Not yet signed.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
/a
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                                 Amounts in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business              Loan   Equity    Total
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                     1.20     0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of          Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.                Finance Company                 -       1.05      1.05
Total gross commitments                                                1.20      1.41      2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                -         -        -
Total now held by IFC                                                  1.20      1.41      2.61
Total undisbursed                                                      0.65       -        0.65
/a  The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1982    Bata Shoe Co.                    Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.               and Tannery                   2.7        .5       3.2



-30-                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
SUPPLEMENTAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare credit:
three months.
(b) Agencies preparing the credit:
Implementing agencies for each project and the
External Resources Division of the Ministry of
Finance.
(c) Date of appraisal mission:
January 1984.
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations:
May 1984.
(e) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action:
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
The Government would:
(a) make arrangements satisfactory to IDA to carry out the
review of its procedures for equipment supply and civil
works contracts and for appointment of consultants
(paragraph 53); and
(b) establish special accounts for projects included under
the proposed credit (paragraph 56).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
-31-
Other Conditions
The Government would:
(a) from time to time, review those government directives,
which in IDA's opinion unduly restrict project-related
expenditures, and introduce necessary changes to
facilitate project implementation (paragraph 48);
(b) by December 31, 1984, review its procurement procedures
for award of civil works and equipment supply contracts
and for selection and appointment of consultants with
a view to expediting action, and thereafter implement
the recommendations of this review in a manner and
within a time frame satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 53);
and
(c) by June 30, 1985, review the performance of the unit
in the Ministry of Finance to monitor project-related
expenditures with a view to further strengthening this
unit as may be necessary (paragraph 54).



-32-
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 22
Supplemental Assistance Credit
Muhuri Irrigation Proiect
Credit No. 725-BD
Background
Credit Amount              US$21.0 million
Date of Approval            June 16, 1977
Date ofpEffectiveness       June 1, 1978
Total Disbursement          US$10.5 million (March 30, 1984)
Project Cost
(at appraisal)           US$42.2 million (net of taxes and duties)
(current estimate)       US$62.3 million (net of taxes and duties)
Cofinancing                US$14.2 million (CIDA, EEC)
Proposed Supplemental
Financing                SDR 9.6 million (US$10.0 million
equivalent)
Closing Dates
(original)               June 30, 1983
(proposed)               June 30, 1986
Proiect Description
1.      The project, located around the! confluence of the Muhuri and Feni
Rivers in southeast Bangladesh, covers a gross area of about 99,000 ac and a
net agricultural area of about 67,000 ac. The project is designed to provide
irrigation, improved flood control, drainage, and agricultural support
services. The main project component is the construction of a dam and a
regulator in the Feni River to form a reservoir which would store water and
raise water levels in channels and waterways for dry season irrigation.
Within the project area, water would be! provided to farms utilizing low lift
pumps (LLPs).
2.      The project, as originally approved, included the following
components:
(a)  construction of about five miles of coastal earthfill embank-
ments and a dam of about 1.5 miles across the Feni River
Channel;
(b) construction of a reinforced-concrete regulator structure
equipped with radial. and flap gates;



-33-
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 22
(c) construction of one major and 30 minor drainage structures
equipped with flap gates, and the improvement of an existing
drainage outlet;
(d) improvement of 110 miles of natural channels and the excavation
of six miles of new channels;
(e) improvement of nine miles of existing roads and the construction
of nine miles of new roads for access to the main project works;
(f) provision of about 1,100 LLPs to raise water from the channels
to adjacent farmlands;
(g) provision of workshops, equipment, and vehicles for maintenance
of civil works and pumps;
(h) construction of offices and housing for project staff;
(i) transportation (field vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles), and
agricultural equipment (hand sprayers, grain dryers) to
facilitate agricultural extension, and supporting services; and
(j) consultant services to assist the Government in project
planning, design, supervision of construction, and evaluation of
project impact.
Project Implementation
3.      The project is about three years behind schedule due primarily to
delays in the construction of the Feni Regulator. The Feni Regulator, after
encountering delays in the preparation of construction drawings, the procure-
ment of equipment and the recruitment of an implementation assistance team
for the contractor, is now almost completed. There were also delays in the
design and preparation of tender documents for the construction of the Feni
River Closure Dam. However, the tender was advertised on October 1, 1983 and
the bid opening took place on January 11, 1984. The contract was awarded in
April 1984. The construction of the closure dam can commence only after the
Feni Regulator is completed to discharge the flow in the Feni River when the
river is obstructed or closed for the construction of the closure dam.
4.      According to current schedules, the filling of the Feni Reservoir is
expected to begin in the monsoon season of 1985 to store irrigation water for
the dry season of 1985/86. Due to delays in completing the two large struc-
tures in the project, work on other components has also been rephased. The
project is expected to be fully completed by June 1986.



-34-
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 22
Revised Project Costs and Financing Plan
5.      The total cost of the Project was estimated during appraisal at
US$42.2 million equivalent (net of duties and taxes).  The original project
costs had included price contingencies of 210% and physical contingencies of
8% of the total project cost above (although physical contingencies for the
closure dam were 15%). The revised project costs are estimated at US$62.3
million equivalent (net of taxes and duties). While some of the cost
increases are the result of delays in implementation, the major reason for
project cost overrun is the significant increase in the cost estimate of the
closure dam above the appraisal estimate. (The project was appraised before
the establisbment of the Bank's requirement for completion of detailed design
before Board presentation.) As shown in Tab'le 1 below, the cost of the
closure dam and related components was estimated at US$8.4 million during
appraisal. The revised costs, based on the bid price and estimated costs of
related components, is expected to be US$25.7 million.



-35-
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 22
Table 1: ESTIMATED COST
(US$ million)
Status
Oritinal                      Revised              Accomp-
Local  Foreign  Total La /c Local  ForeiRn  Total /c  lished  Remaining
1.  Land Acquisition        0.7        -    0.7         3.8         -      3.8        1.3      2.5
2. Civil Works
Regulator and
Related Works       17.7    10.6   28.3          13.8       8.3    22.1       17.1       5.0
3. Closure Dam and
Embankments          5.7      2.7    8.4         17.5       8.2    25.7        0.3      25.4
4. Channels and Con-
trol Structures      3.2      0.5    3.7          0.6      0.1      0.7        0.4       0.3
5.  0 + M Facilities        0.2     0.1    0.3          0.1         -      0.1        0        0.1
6. Vehicles and
Agric. Equipment    0.3       0.2    0.5          1.9       1.6     3.5        3.5       0
7.  Lov-Lift Pumps          1.2      1.9    3.1           -         -        -          -      -
8.  0 + M Facilities        0.1      0.2    0.3           -         -        -          -      -
9. Consulting
Services             2.6      2.2    4.8          2.6       2.2     4.8        3.0       1.8
10. Management and
Administration        1.9       -    1.9          5.1       _       5.1        3.7       1.4
TOTAL                      33.6      18.4   52.0 Lb    45.4       20.4    65.8 /d   29.3       36.5 /e
La  Discrepancies in currency conversion due to rounding.
/b  Includes taxes and duty of US$9.8 million equivalent.
/c  Costs include contingencies.
Id Includes taxes and duties of US$3.5 million.
/e Includes taxes and duties of US$2.6 million.
6.      It should also be noted that the revised project cost estimates takes
into account savings resulting from two project components. As originally
designed, about 1,100 LLPs were to be provided under the Project. However,
in keeping with the Government's new policy that LLPs are to be purchased,
rather than rented by farmers, the purchase of needed LLPs is being financed
under other Government programs and is no longer included as a component of
this project. At appraisal, it was thought that about 30 minor drainage
structures were needed to prevent river water from entering into some of the
low areas after the completion of the Feni Reservoir. It has now been
established, however; that due to rapid siltation of sediments during floods
these areas have been largely filled and the construction of these structures
is no longer necessary. The saving from these items amounts to about



-36-
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 22
US$3.4 million. The project scope cannot be reduced further to fit the
amount of resources available because the major item causing cost overruns is
the Feni River Closure Dam without which the project benefits cannot be
realized.
7.      The Government had secured a credit of Canadian $9.0 million (about
US$8.6 million equivalent) from the Govermaent of Canada (through CIDA) at
the time the IDA credit was approved. Subsequently, the Government also
obtained a grant of US$5.6 million equivalent from EEC. The original IDA
credit of US$21.0 million and CIDA credit of US$8.6 equivalent covered 70% of
the total project costs (net of taxes and duties), including the full foreign
exchange requirements. The EEC contribution increased external financing to
about 83% of the total original cost estimates (net of taxes and duties).
The balance was to have been provided by the Government.
8.      As shown in Table 2 below, in the absence of additional external
financing, the Government, in order to complete this project, would have to
increase its financing share to about 43.5%, of the total project costs (net
of taxes and duties). This is prohibitively high given the Government's
financial resource constraints. The proposed supplemental financing of
US$10 million equivalent would reduce the Government's burden to about 27.4%
of the total cost. Although this is still substantially higher than the
16.6% share envisaged earlier, the proposed supplemental financing would play
a particularly critical role in that it would increase external cost sharing
for remaining project costs (estimated at IJS$33.9 million) from the current
level of approximately 53% (calculated on the basis of undisbursed portions
of the existing IDA and CIDA credits and of EEC grant) to 83% which is more
in line with he Government's financial capabilities.



-37-
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 22
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
OriRinal     %       Revised       %
IDA                     21.0      49.8        21.0       33.7
IDA (Supplement)           -         -        10.0       16.1
CIDA                     8.6      20.4         8.6       13.8
EEC                      5.6      13.2         5.6        9.0
GOB                      7.0 /a  16.6         17.1 /a   27.4
42.2    100.0        62.3      100.0
/a Excluding taxes and duties.
Procurement and Disbursements
9.      Procurement procedures would remain unchanged under the proposed
credit. Disbursement categories would be the same as established for Credit
725-BD. Disbursement percentages against the various categories of expendi-
tures would also remain unchanged except that, with the supplemental financ-
ing to be provided, disbursement would be made against 70% of local expendi-
tures for civil works as compared to 50% as specified in the original credit.
A revised disbursement schedule including the proposed supplemental financing
is as follows:
Table 3: REVISED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Without Supplemental           With Supplemental
IDA Fiscal Year      Per                           Per
and Semester    Semester   Cumulative          Semester    Cumulative
FY 1985
I                    2.0          13.2             4.4           15.6
II                   3.0          16.2             5.9           21.5
FY 1986
I                    3.1          19.3             6.1           27.6
II                   1.7          21.0             3.4           31.0



-38-
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 22
Proiect Implementation Agency
10.     The Water Development Board, under the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forests, Division of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood control, is the
principal executing agency.  In addition, the Integrated Rural Development
Program is responsible for the formation of farmers' pump groups and their
integration into the cooperatives structure and the Ministry of Agriculture
is responsible for strengthening, extension services to farmers.
Justification
11.     The economic viability of the project was re-assessed, taking into
account the higher cost of the closure dam, and the revised cropping pattern,
and crop acreage based on the results of addlitional water supply studies. As
a result, the project's economic rate of relturn has declined from 16%
estimated at appraisal to about 14%. A sensitivity analysis has indicated
that a lag of one year in benefits would reduce the rate of return to 12.6%
while a two-year lag would result in a rate of return of 11.4%.  A further
cost overrun of 20% would reduce the rate oiE return from the current
estimated 14% to 11.8%.



-39-
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 22
Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Proiect
Credit No. 1023-BD
Background
IDA Credit                         :  US$ 29.0 million
Date of Board Approval             : May 20, 1980
Date of Project Effectiveness  :  September 4, 1980
Project Cost
(at appraisal)                   : US$42.0 million (net of duties and taxes)
(current estimate)               :  US$53.4 million (net of duties and taxes)
Total Credit Disbursement          :  US$ 6.6 million (March 1984)
Cofinancing                        :  US$6.1 million (Netherlands)
Proposed Supplemental
Financing                        :  SDR 4.8 million (US$5.0
million equivalent)
Closing Date
(original)                       :  December 31, 1983
(proposed)                       :  June 30, 1986
Proiect Description
1.       The project, designed to improve the performance of three existing
fertilizer plants owned by Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC),
includes: improvements at the three fertilizer plants located at Ghorasal,
Chittagong, and Fenchuganj; construction of a national training center at
Ghorasal to ensure availability of skilled staff to operate plant facilities;
and the import of critical plant spares, catalysts and chemicals to meet the
needs of the plants over a two-year period.
Pro ject Implementation
2.       Following delays of about two and a half years in implementation,
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily. About 95% of all machinery and
equipment needed for rehabilitation of the three plants is expected to be on
site before June 1984. BCIC expects the rehabilitation component of the
project to be completed by about June 1985.
3.       No significant progress, however, has been made in the implementation
of the training component because of changes in the Government's views
regarding the scope of the training program. While initially this project
component had limited provision for training facilities at Ghorasal plant,
the Government now plans to establish a more comprehensive National



-40-
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 22
Fertilizer Training Institute (NFTI) al: Ghorasal to meet the training needs
of all existing and future ferti]Lizer and chemical plants in the country.
The total cost of the first phase of the Training Institute, to be imple-
mented during the implementation of this project, would be about US$3.8
million while the amount allocated inil:ially for this purpose was only US$1.0
million.
4.      Regarding the import of spares, catalysts and chemicals components,
BCIC has allocated the ongoing Credit amount among the three plants which are
satisfactorily handling procurement.
Revised Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
5.      The total project cost has increased from US$ 42.0 million to US$53.4
million (excluding taxes and duties), or by about 28%. As shown in Table 1
below, the rise in project cost is due to changes in scope of the improvement
in the Ghorasal (US$5.7 million increase) and Chittagong plants (US$0.6
million increase) to provide greater f:Lexibility in plant operations and the
training component (US$2.8 million increase). The Ghorasal plant now
includes the installation of a gas turbine generator and the Chittagong plant
includes facilities for imported phosphoric acid for producing triple
superphosphate. The revised project costs also reflect the larger training
component, including the first phase oi- expanded NFTI facilities.



-41-
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 22
Table 1: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate          Revised Estimate              Status
Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total    Accomp-
lished Remaining
Proiect Component
I.   Plant Improvement
Ghorasal           6.1    11.7    17.8        6.0      17.5    23.5       4.1        19.4
Chittagong         5.3      9.7    15.0        5.4     10.2    15.6       4.4        11.2
Fenchuganj         1.5      3.0      4.5       0.8      3.1      3.9      0.6         3.3
Subtotal          12.9    24.4    37.3       12.2      30.8    43.0       9.1       33.9
II.   Training               0.9      0.1     1.0       2.3       1.5      3.8     0.5         3.3
III.   Spares, Catalysts,
& Chemicals            -      8.3      8.3         -      8.3      8.3      1.4         6.9
Total Financing
Required            13.8    32.8    46.6 La  14.5        40.6    55.1 lb 11.0          44.1
L  Includes US$4.6 million equivalent of taxes and duties.
/b  Includes US$1.7 million equivalent of taxes and duties.
6.      As these three plants are not in a position to finance their invest-
ment programs from their own resources, the Government needs to increase its
contribution and mobilize supplemental funds from external sources in order
to complete this project. The Government of the Netherlands is expected to
increase its financing from US$4.7 million to US$6.1 million. The proposed
supplemental credit of US$5 million would essentially help finance the gas
turbine generator at the Ghorasal facility which is required to improve power
supply reliability. The following table shows a revised financing plan for
this project.



-42-
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 22
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Original                           Revised
Local  Foreign  Total       %      Local  Foreign  Total    %
IDA                 0.9      28.1   29.0    69.0       0.9    28.1    29.0    54.3
IDA (Supplement)      -         -       -      -         -      5.0     5.0      9.4
Netherlands           -       4.7    4.7    11.2         -      6.1      6.1    11.4
GOB                 8.3         -    8.3 /a 19.8    11.9        1.4    13.3 /a 24.9
9.2     32.8   42.0   100.0    12.8    40.6    53.4   100.0
/a Excluding taxes and duties.
7.      The proposed supplemental IDA i-inancing and the increased aid from
the Netherlands would increase the external financing contribution to about
75% of the project cost.
Procurement and Disbursement
8.      No changes are envisaged in procurement procedures under the proposed
credit. There would also be no changes in disbursement categories or the
percentage of expenditures to be financed. The proposed supplemental credit
as well as the original credit would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1986.
The closing date at appraisal was December 31, 1983 but was postponed by one
year to December 31, 1984.  A revised disbursement schedule including the
proposed supplemental financing is as follows:



-43-
ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 22
Table 3: REVISED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Without Supplemental          With Supplemental
IDA Fiscal Year          Per                         Per
and Semester           Semester  Cumulative        Semester   Cumulative
FY 1985
I                        4.9        11.5              6.7         13.3
II                       7.1        18.6              9.1         22.4
FY 1986
I                        6.8        25.4              7.6         30.0
II                       3.6        29.0              4.0         34.0
Proiect Implementing Agency
9.      BCIC, a government-owned corporation, is the implementing agency for
the project. Implementation of the plant improvement programs at Ghorasal
and Chittagong are the responsibility of the individual General Managers of
the plants, assisted by their Material Control Managers and separate Project
Managers. The engineering contract management, procurement coordination and
material planning is the responsibility of the two Project Managers. The
civil works and construction are being carried out by the existing main-
tenance departments of the plants. The Fenchuganj plant improvement program
is being carried out by the plant's operating, maintenance and material
managers without a formal implementation organization.
Justification
10.     At the time of appraisal, the average incremental  economic rate of
return for the Ghorasal and Chittagong plant improvement components of the
project was estimated at 62%. The economic rate of return for improvements
at the Ghorasal facility alone was estimated at 92%, and for the Chittagong
plant at 18%. Despite the cost increases at the Ghorasal and Chittagong
plants, the revised economic rates of return, calculated on the incremental
basis, for the Ghorasal and Chittagong improvements are about 34% and 10%,
respectively. The decline in the economic rate of return of the project has
been due to the combined impact of long delays in project implementation,
increased costs mainly for Ghorasal plant, and unfavorable movements in the
price of TSP fertilizer which mainly affects the Chittagong plant.



-44-
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 22
Chittagong Port Project
Credit No. 1247-BD
Background
IDA Credit                  SDR 54.0 million (US$60.0 million) 1/
Date of Approval         : May 18, 1L982
Date of Effectiveness  : November 17, 1982
Disbursements            : No disbursements made as of May 25, 1984
Project Cost
(at appraisal)        : US$91.0 million (net of duties and taxes)
(current estimate)    : US$85.0 million (net of duties and taxes)
Cofinancing              : US$5.0 m-Lllion (Finland)
Proposed Supplemental
Financing              : SDR 6.7 maillion (US$7.0 million equivalent)
Closing Date
(current)             : December 31, 1987
(proposed)            : Same 2/
1.      As a result of worldwide changes in shipping technology, Bangladesh
has been receiving increasing amounts of container traffic. In April 1982
the Bank Group approved the credit to assist Chittagong Port to handle the
container traffic expected to materialize through the early 1990s. To do
this, the port's overall capacity will be increased with the construction of
two multipurpose berths suitable for servicing general cargo as well as
container traffic, the provision of new cargo handling equipment on existing
berths and the training of port workers.
Project Description
2.      The project comprises:
(a)  two multipurpose berths (with a total length of 450 meters) with
ample back-up facilities (for container storage, stuffing and
unstuffing) and container handling equipment;
1/ At the exchange rates prevalent aLt the time of negotiations.
2/ An extension of the closing date may be considered closer to the end of
the current period.



ANNEX IV
-45-                    Page 14 of 22
(b)  cargo handling equipment for the interim container facilities and
to replace and expand the equipment assigned to the existing berths;
(c)  maintenance facilities for cargo handling equipment;
(d)  improvements to the Training Institute;
(e)  technical assistance to train skilled laborers and managers, to
establish a preventative maintenance program, and to develop manage-
ment information systems; and
(f)  various engineering services.
Proiect Implementation
3.      Project implementation has been slower than expected at the time of
appraisal. The contract for the construction of the two multipurpose berths
was awarded by the Chittagong Port Authority (CPA) eight months behind
schedule because of delays in the preparation of bidding documents, bid
evaluation and contract award. Delays have also taken place in the appoint-
ment of the consultants in charge of construction supervision. Progress,
however, is now satisfactory.
Revised Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
4.      At the time of appraisal, total project cost was estimated at
US$110.0 million including about US$19.0 million in duties and taxes. The
original cost of each component is indicated in the table below. Total
project cost estimates have been revised downward to take into account a
likely reduction in the cost of constructing the two multipurpose berths.



-46-
ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 22
Table 1: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Original Proiect Cost /a    Revised Project Cost               Status
Accomp- Remain-
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   lished    ing
Civil Works       31.0       25.0      56.0     28.0      22.0      50.0       1.3   48.7
Equipment            -       27.9      27.9         -     27.9      27.9         -   27.9
Tech. Cost           -        7.1       7.1         -      7.1       7.1         -    7.1
Total           31.0       60.0      91.0     28.0      57.0      85.0       1.3   83.7
/a  Net of duties and taxes.
5.      Finland has agreed to extend a US$5.0 million grant to the Government
for the acquisition of some of the cargo handling equipment included in the
Chittagong Port Project. The proposed supplemental financing and the con-
tribution by Finland, would increase the combined external financing to about
80% of the revised project cost (net of taxes and duties). The following
provides the original as well as a revised financing plan:
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
Original Financing Plan         Revised Financing Plan
(Excluding Taxes and Duties) (Excluding Taxes and Duties)
US$ Million        %            US$ Million         %
GOB                      15.0          16.5              0.8            0.9
CPA                      16.0 /a       17.6             16.0 /a        18.8
IDA                     60.0           65.9             56.2 /b        66.1
IDA (Supplement)          -             -                7.0            8.3
Cofinancing (Finland)   -               - _              5.0            6.0
Total                    91.0         100.0             85.0          100.0
/a  In addition, CPA is expected to pay taxes and duties of about
US$19 million.
/b Based on SDR 1 = US$1.04095



-47-
ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 22
Procurement and Disbursement
6.      There would be no change in procurement procedures, nor would there
be any change in the categories eligible for disbursement. Disbursement
percentage for all civil works, however, would be increased. Disbursements
for procurement of equipment and consultant services would be made at 100%,
as before. Disbursements of the original credit are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1988, one year after the current closing date. However, no
postponement of the closing date is proposed at this time. This will be
considered closer to the current closing date of December 31, 1987. A
revised disbursement schedule including the proposed supplemental financing
is as follows:
Table 3: REVISED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Without Supplemental          With Supplemental
IDA Fiscal Year          Per                          Per
and Semester           Semester  Cumulative         Semester   Cumulative
FY 1984
I
II                        1.3         1.3              1.3          1.3
FY 1985
I                         4.2         5.5              5.7          7.0
II                       4.7         10.2              6.7         13.7
FY 1986
I                         8.3        18.5             10.3         24.0
II                       11.9       30.4              13.4         37.4
FY 1987
I                        12.2       42.6              12.2         49.6
II                        9.2       51.8               9.2         58.8
FY 1988
I                         4.4        56.2              4.4         63.2



-48-
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 22
Project Implementing Agency
7.      The implementation of the project is the responsibility of CPA, under
the Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport Division of the Ministry of
Communications. With assistance from consultants, CPA is expected to imple-
ment the project satisfactorily.
Proiect Justification
8.      At the time of appraisal, the project's economic rate of return was
estimated at 23%.  Although there have been some delays in project
implementation, their impact on the project's feasibility will be moderated
by, among other things, the lower-than-expected cost of construction of the
multipurpose berths. Based on sensitivity analysis carried out at the time
of appraisal, the revised economic rate of return is now estimated to be
about 21%.



-49-
ANNEX IV
Page 18 of 22
Rural Electrification Proiect
Credit No. 1262-BD
Background
Credit Amount               SDR 36.0 million (US$40.0 million equivalent)l./
Date of Approval           June 10, 1982
Date of Effectiveness       September 30, 1982
Total Disbursement          SDR 2.0 million (March 1984)
Project Cost
(at appraisal)           US$56.7 million (net of duties and taxes)
(current estimate)       US$54.2 million (net of duties and taxes)
Cofinancing                None
Proposed Supplemental
Financing                SDR 7.6 million (US$8.0 million equivalent)
Closing Date
(current)                June 30, 1989
(proposed)               Same 2/
1.      The project supports the Government's efforts to expand the supply
of electricity in rural areas and finance the installation of new and the
rehabilitation of some existing electricity distribution networks in seven
PBS (Palli Bidyut Samity or Rural Electricity Society) areas, as part of the
Second Phase (Phase II) of the Government's Rural Electrification Program.
The balance of Phase II, which covers 13 other PBS areas, is being financed
by the United States Agency for International Development on a parallel
basis. In addition, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is financ-
ing the rural electrification program of eight new PBS's and Finland in one
area.
Proiect Description
2.      The project will (i) install new electricity distribution networks
in the above seven areas, (ii) rehabilitate existing distribution systems in
these areas that are operated by Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB),
1/ At the exchange rates prevalent at the time of negotiations.
2/ The existing credit is expected to be disbursed well in advance of the
current closing date.



-50-
ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 22
and (iii) establish seven new member-owned PBS cooperatives. The size of
the seven areas was chosen to make the cooperatives manageable, while keeping
the number of consumers per cooperative staff member high. The average PBS
area has a population of about 800,000 (ranging from 500,000 to 900,000) in
about 140,000 households, contains about 750 existing irrigation pumps, and
about 430 small and medium industries in an area of about 400 square miles.
Project Implementation
3.      The project is being implemented by the Rural Electrification Board
of Bangladesh (REB). The procurement of the first tranche of material, which
includes conductors, insulators, poles, accessories and substations (worth
about US$12 million) was approved in May 1983. The procurement of this
tranche is four months behind the original schedule due to delays in the
Government's approval of contract awards. Hlowever, REB is now receiving the
materials, and construction for 25% of the works under the Project started in
early 1984. Bid invitations were issued in December 1983.
4.      Most of the necessary steps for the institutional development com-
ponent have been taken in three PBSs, namely Faridpur I, Noakhali II and
Barisal II. Land necessary for construction of PBSs headquarters has been
selected and the acquisition process has started in five PBSs. In some of
these PBSs, local consultants (civil ad electrical) have been selected to
carry out design, and supervise the implementation of works.



-51-
ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 22
Project Costs and Financing
5.      The following table gives cost details:
Table 1: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Original Project Cost la       Revised Project Cost             Status
Accomp- Remain-
Foreign   Local   Total       Foreign   Local   Total   lished        ing
Construction
Commodities      28.1       3.6     31.7       28.1       3.6      31.7      2.7     29.0
Support
Commodities       1.8       -         1.8        1.8      -         1.8      -         1.8
Installation        -         4.5       4.5        -        4.0       4.0      0.7       3.3
Engineering
& Overhead        -         3.7      3.7        -         3.2       3.2      -        3.2
Sub-total        29.9      11.8     41.7       29.9      10.8      40.7      3.4     37.3
Physical
Contingency       2.2       0.9      3.1        2.2       0.9       3.1      _        3.1
Price
Contingency       7.9       4.0      11.9       7.9       2.5      10.4      -       10.4
Total            40.0      16.7      56.7      40.0      14.2      54.2      3.4      50.8
Duties and
Taxes             -         7.6       7.6       -         9.4       9.4      0.5      8.9
Total Project
Cost             40.0      24.3     64.3       40.0      23.6      63.6      3.9     59.7
Interest
Capitalized       -         0.2       0.2       -         0.2       0.2
Total Financing   40.0       24.5      64.5       40.0     23.8      63.8
The IDA credit of SDR 36.0 million (US$40.0 million equivalent at exchange
rates prevalent then), was estimated to finance 70.5% of the total costs, net
of duties and taxes. As REB does not yet generate internal cash resources of
its own, the Government was to finance the balance of the project costs or
29.5%. To help ensure that this project is implemented in a timely manner,
the proposed supplemental credit would increase IDA's share to 84.3% and
reduce the Government's cost sharing to 15.7%. Table 2 below gives the
existing and the proposed financing plan.



-52-
ANNEX IV
Page 21 of 22
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Original.      %          Revised         %
GOB                      16.7         29.5           8.5          15.7
IDA                      40.0         70.5          37.7 la       69.5
IDA (Supplement)             -                       8.0          14.8
Total                    56.7        10(.0          54.2 /b    100.0
/a Dollar value of IDA Credit of SI)R 36.0 million at March 1984
exchange rate of SDR 1.00 = US$1.04695.
/b Excluding taxes and duties and capitalized interest.
Procurement and Disbursement
6.      Under the proposed credit, installation costs and equipment procured
locally according to local procedures, and which were not financed under the
original Credit, will become eligible for IDA financing. Accordingly, two
new categories for disbursement will be added to the existing ones under
Credit 1262-BD. These categories are "Installation" and "Inspection
Services" for which IDA will reimburse against 70% of local costs and 100%
foreign expenditure. REB's local procurement procedures are acceptable to
the Association. A revised schedule of disbursements including the proposed
supplemental financing as follows:



-53-
ANNEX IV
Page 22 of 22
Table 3: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Without Supplemental          With Supplemental
IDA Fiscal Year          Per                         Per
and Semester           Semester  Cumulative        Semester   Cumulative
FY 1985
I                        8.2        10.8             10.2         12.8
II                       7.4        18.2              9.9         22.7
FY 1986
I                        7.1        25.3              9.4         32.1
II                       5.4        30.7              6.6         38.7
FY 1987
I                        4.0        34.7              4.0         42.7
II                       3.0        37.7              3.0         45.7
Project Justification
7.        There has not been any major change since appraisal in the valua-
tion of costs and benefits for the project that would result in any sig-
nificant change in the economic rate of return for the project. At
appraisal, the project's economic rate of return was estimated to range from
11% to 17% (depending on the split of incremental demand between replacement
and generated consumption) based on savings to be realized from use of elec-
tricity in comparison with other sources of energy. The economic benefits of
the project would be significantly higher if additional output resulting from
electrification were also taken into account. The proposed supplemental
financing of US$8 million equivalent would reduce the possibility of slippage
in project implementation which might affect project benefits.






