Document of
The World Bank                              N M   g  
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3666-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
April 16, 1982
South Asia Projects Department
Transportation Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of
reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as intervention
currency. On December 30, 1981, the exchange rate was set at Tk 37.9568
buying and Tk 38.0568 selling per Pound Sterling and the US Dollar, the
Taka/Dollar crossrate is subject to change. In recent months, this rate
has fluctuated between Tk 18 and Tk 20 per US dollar. Throughout this
report the rates shown below have been used:
/w                                 US$ 1         =  Tk l8
Tk 1         =  US$ 0.0555
u                                   Tk 1 million =  US$ 55,556
Weights and Heasures
1 foot       =  0.305 meters
1 mile       =  1.609 kilometers
Abbreviations
ADB              Asian Development Bank
BADC             Bangladesh Agricultural and Development Corporation
BIWTA            Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BIWTC            Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BR               Bangladesh Railways
CCJ              Cement Clinker Jetty
CPA              Chittagong Port Authority
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
GCB              General Cargo Berth
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GOB              Government of Bangladesh
GSJ              Grain Silo Jetty
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
MPB              Multipurpose Berth
MTC              Ministry of Transport and Communications
MTFPP            Medium Term Foodgrain Production Plan
OED              Operations Evaluation Department
PCA              Port of Chalna Authority
PCR              Project Completion Report
RHD              Roads and Highways Department
TEU              Twenty Foot Equivalent Units
TSP              Triple Super Phosphate
TPY              Tons Per Year
USAID            United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .......................................... .    1
A. Introduction    ..
B.  Major Determinants of International Trade           .       .              1
C. The Transport System..                               .                      2
D.  Transport Administration and Planning ................                     5
E.  Past IDA Assistance to the Transport Sector.                               6
II. CHITTAGONG PORT ............                                                   . 7
A. General....                                                                 7
B. Organization and Administration .............                         .   8
C.  Existing Facilities    ........................................    10
D.  Operations .............................................. .   12
E.  Development Strategy ........................................    16
III. THE PROJECT .....  18
A.  Project Objectives and Composition ....... ..................            18
B.  Project Description    ........................................    19
C.  Technical Evaluation        .......................................    21
D.  Cost Estimates .............................................    21
E.  Financing Plan ..........................................                 22
F.  Execution of the Project          ...................................    23
G.  Procurement ..............................................    24
H.  Disbursements ..............................................    24
I.  Monitoring ..............................................    25
J. Port Efficiency Indicators                      .....   25
K.  Environmental Impact        .......................................    26
L.  Uncertainties in the Project .          ...............................   26
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .............................................    26
A.  Traffic Forecasts   ..........................................    26
B.  Port Capacity Considerations            ...............................   28
C.  Economic Justification         .....................................    29
D.  Sensitivity Analysis        .......................................    31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.   FINANCE AND EARNINGS ...........................................   32
A.  Introduction ...............................................   32
6.  Improveraents in Accounting System ........... ..     .............  32
C.  Budgets and Audits ....................       .....................   33
D.  Tariffs      ......................... ......................... .   34
E.  Past Performance ...........................................   35
F.  Future Prospects ...... ...............     .................... .   37
G.  Financial Resources .................  ..     .....................  39
H.  Financial Aspects of Container Facilities ........ ..........   40
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....       .....................   41
Annexes
Annex I - Port Efficiency Indicators ................................  45
Annex 2 - Assumptions Made in Preparing Financial Forecasts .........   48
Annex 3 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .   51
Tables
Table 1 - Cost Estimates ...........................................  52
Table 2  - Implementation Schedule ..................................  54
Table 3  - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ......................  55
Table 4  - Traffic Through Chittagong Port ..........................  56
Table 5  - Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................   57
Table 6  - CPA Revenue and Expenditure Accounts FY1977-81 ....      .......  58
Table 7  - CPA Balance Sheets, 1977-81 ..............................   59
Table 8  - Key Cost Items as Percentages of Total Working Expenses ..   60
Table 9  - CPA Income and Expenditure Forecasts FY1982-88 ....      .......  61
Table 10 - CPA Balance Sheet Projections FY1982-88 ..................  62
Table 11- CPA Investmemt Program FY1982-87 .          ........................   63
Table 12 - CPA Sources and Application of Funds Forecasts FY1982-88 .   64
Table 13 - Effect of Alternative Investments on Effective Port
Capacity .      ................................................   65
Charts and Maps
Chart 1 - CPA's Organization ..66
Chart 2  - Port Capacity Supply and Demand .67
Map IBRD - 16051R - Port Facilities
Map IBRD - 16052R - Multipurpose Berth Lay-out
Map IBRD - 12279R1 - Transportation Network
This report is based on information provided by the Government
of Bangladesh and the Chittagong Port Authority and on the findings of
an appraisal mission in July 1981 consisting of Messrs. R.N. Vinekar
(Port Engineer), M. Pulgar-Vidal (Economist), M. Alikhan and S. O'Humay
(Financial Analysts).



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01      Bangladesh is a 55,000-square mile country nested between India
and Burma, and comprising the fertile alluvial plains of the Ganges-Jamuna
(Brahmaputra)-Padma-Meghna rivers as they tlow towards the Bay of Bengal.
The deltaic nature of Bangladesh's geography results in complex development
problems. about one third of the country's surface is normally flooded
annually during three to six months; there are few areas that are not liable
to serious tlooding every two or three years, and the flooding potential has
grown in recent times as a result ot increasing river siltation. These
features make access to the various regions of the country difficult since
transport infrastructure is generally expensive, river channels are fre-
quently shifting and roads have to be built to high standards and recon-
structed periodically.
1.02      At the time of independence in 1971, the Government of Bangladesh
(GOB) inherited a country devastated by war and climatic calamities, much of
the physical infrastructure had been destroyed, managerial and financial
resources had flecd away, and the economy was in a state of disarray. During
its first ten years of existence, however, the country witnessed a degree of
economic improvement, particularly in the late 1970's when GNP grew at about
6%. per annum.
1.03      With a population of approximately 94 million, and growing at about
3% per annum, Bangladesh is one of the most densely populated areas in the
world; about 1,700 persons per square mile of total area or alternatively
about 2,580 persons per square mile of cultivable land. The population
pressure is also reflected in the annual per capita income which stood at
US$120 in 1980, among the lowest in the world. Despite recent improvements,
life expectancy is still short, child mortality remains high, and human
fertility has only begun to be checked by population planning measures. The
majority of the population is illiterate, ill-fed and under-employed. In
1979, per capita toodgrain production and average nutrition levels were still
below the levels attained in 1970, and it is estimated that per capita
foodgrain consumption will not increase in the near future much over its
present level of 15 ounces per day. The country remains critically dependent
on foreign aid, which finances about 75% of public investment and represents
roughly one-tenth of GNP.
B. Major Determinants of International Trade
1.04      Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for about
55% of GDP, 75% of all employment and 75% of all exports. The agricultural
productivity is, however, among the lowest in the world. Rice, which



-2--
accounts for about 80% of the cropped area, has an average yield of about 0.5
ton per acre, barely half that of Asia as a whole. Until recently, agricul-
tural production has grown at a rate lower than that of population, and large
foodgrain imports (mainly wheat) have been needed to make up for domestic
production shortfalls. In FY80, for instance, despite a record harvest ot
13.3 million tons, an all-time high 2.7 million tons of foodgrain were
imported of which over 2 million tons were handled at Chittagong. A promis-
ing development in the foodgrain sector in recent years has been the rapid
increase in annual wheat production from about 100,000 tons in the early
1970's to over 800,000 tons in FY80. Also, GOB and IDA have recently
prepared a Medium Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP), whereunder
foodgrain production is expected to reach the 18-20 million tons range in
FY85. If reached, this ambitious but attainable target would significantly
reduce the need to import foodgrains.
1.05      Large amounts of fertilizer will be needed to reach the MTFPP
targets. Three fertilizer plants are currently in operation, and a fourth,
the IDA-assisted Ashuganj plant, will soon come in operation. Local demand
will still exceed supply and significant amounts of fertilizer will have to
be imported for a long time to come. The Port of Chittagong handles about
60% of fertilizer imports.
1.06      Jute, which only covers 6% of the country's cropped area, is the
single most important export, and contributes about 25% of Bangladesh's
foreign exchange earnings. About 90% of raw jute exports, as well as 60% ot
jute goods, are handled at the Port of Chalna. Other major components of
international trade are imports of cement, cement clinker, coal, iron and
steel products, POL and general cargo mainly handled at Chittagong (Table 4).
C. The Transport System
1.07      The transport sector suffered considerable damage during the war of
independence in 1971. More than one-third of trucks and buses were lost;
about 600 road and railway bridges were damaged or destroyed; railway
workshops, motive power and rolling stock were severely hit; airfields and
ports were damaged; and sunken ships blocked important waterways. During
the 1970's, Bangladesh made a significant effort to reconstruct and expand
its transport sector.
1.08      Traditionally the main transport modes have been the inland water-
ways and the railways. however, there has been a steady change in favor of
road transport, which now carries about 20% of freight and about 50% of
passenger traffic, in spite of the poorly developed highway network, with
only 4,000 miles of paved roads, many unbridged gaps and inadequate ferry
services. Among the reasons for the underdevelopment of the road system is
the very high cost of road construction resulting from the poor engineering



-3-
characteristics of soils, the flooding potential that makes high embankments
necessary, and the scarcity of construction materials. The main road system
is administered by the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MLC) through
its Railways, Roads, Highways and Road Transport Division, while minor roads,
mostly unpaved, are under the responsibility of local authorities. Overall
lack of financial resources, compounded by policies favoring construction
over maintenance, have resulted in poor road maintenance standards and prac-
tices throughout the country. Road maintenance and rehabilitation would be
the object of a possible Third Highway Project now being discussed with GOB
(para 1.22).
1.09      Bangladesh Railway (BR) is state-owned and managed, and has a
system of about 1,200 route miles of meter gauge track located mainly in the
eastern part of the country and about 600 route miles of broad gauge track in
the west. The two halves of the system are connected by two ferries across
the Jamuna(Brahmaputra) River. The track is of low standard and most of it
is poorly maintained. Since independence, employee productivity and utiliza-
tion rates of locomotives and rolling stock, have all fallen, thus reducing
the railway's carrying capacity. Freight traffic is below pre-independence
levels while passenger transport has increased considerably due to low pas-
senger fares and an implicit GOB policy of priority to passenger traffic.
Bangladesh Railway receives considerable assistance from the Asian Develop-
ment Bank (ADB), Britain, Saudia Arabia and Canada. The economy would
benefit if some ralway bridges, with few rail movements were provided with
permanent decking to permit their use by road transport also.
1.10      The length of navigable inland waterways ranges from 3,245 miles in
the dry season to 5,240 miles during the monsoon. 1/ The Bangladesh Inland
Water Transport Authority (BIWTA) controls the inland waterways, regulates
traffic and fares and maintains certain facilities such as inland ports and
navigation channels. Mechanized inland water transport is provided by the
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC) and by private
operators, the latter carrying about 90% of passengers and 50% of freight
traffic. The mechanized fleet is supplemented by about 90,000 country boats
of one or two ton average capacity. Of the BIWTC fleet of some 600 vessels,
with a static capacity of about 180,000 tons, some 70% will require extensive
repairs within five years, and a program of repair and replacement is being
prepared with the help of specialists financed by IDA (Credit 735-BD). The
private mechanized sector, comprising about 600 vessels of 155,000 tons
static capacity, is currently undergoing expansion with GOB's help. The
inland water transport subsector is also receiving assistance from the
Netherlands and Norway.
1/ Bangladesh Transport Survey Update 1978.



-4-
1.11      International trade is handled at the maritime ports of Chittagong
and Chalna, which are operated by the Chittagong Port Authority (CPA) and the
Port of Chalna Authority (PCA) respectively. Chittagong is Bangladesh's main
port and has experienced a steady growth since partition when Calcutta ceased
to be the preferred port for the East Bengal hinterland. Port facilities and
throughput grew from four berths handling about 0.5 million tons in 1947 to
the present 17 general cargo berths, several jetties and moorings which
handled about 6.2 million tons in 1979/80 (Table 4). The operations at
Chittagong Port are characterized by labor intensive handling techniques,
slow cargo clearance and overcrowded storage and transit sheds. The Port of
Chalna, located in the west on the Pussur River about 50 kms south of Khulna,
was established as an anchorage in 1950. It serves as a major outlet for
jute exports and is currently handling over 2 million tons per year.
Recently, alongside facilities comprising 5 berths with transit sheds and
warehouses have been constructed with financial assistance from Yugoslavia
but their use is seriously affected by draft restrictions; it is hoped that
the studies of the Pussur River which have been financed under the Second
Technical Assistance Credit (872-BD), will provide when completed in late
1982 some insight into the siltation problem and suggest economic ways to
overcome draft restrictions.
1.12      The state-owned Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) provides
commercial services linking Bangladesh to India, Pakistan, the Middle East,
the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States. In late 1979, BSC owned
23 vessels with capacities ranging from 2,000 DWT coasters to 20,000 DWT dry
cargo vessels and a 90,000 DWT tanker. The fleet's total capacity was over
330,X000 DWT. Most vessels are 10 to 20 years old and the average age is
about 15 years. Under Credit 424-BD, BSC acquired second hand two tankers of
about 20,000 DWT to provide lighterage services between sea-going tankers and
the petroleum refinery at Chittagong. The bulk of shipping services is for
cargo transport (about 1.5 million tons in 1978/79) though some passenger
services are also provided (about 8,000 passengers in the same year). BSC's
share of international cargo traffic now amounts to about 15%.
1.13      One of the salient features of Bangladesh's transport sector is the
co-existence of modern and traditional technologies. In road transport for
instance, motorized vehicles (trucks, buses, vans, cars, auto-rickshaws and.
motorcycles) and non-motorized ones (bicycles, cycle rickshaws and
animal-drawn carts) ply on and compete for the use of road space, both in
urban areas and intercity stretches. The relative importance of traditional
means of transport is evidenced by traffic counts suggesting that even on
major (national and regional) highways, non-motorized traffic easily accounts
for about 90% of vehicles. About 30 different types of locally-made boats
ranging all the way from small dugouts and canoes to large boats capable of
carrying up to 20 tons are used for passenger and goods transport. These
traditional transport modes are largely uncontrolled and unregulated. GOB is
currently encouraging efforts to improve the technology of cycle rickshaws,



-5-
bullock carts and country boats, but the impact of these efforts has so far
been negligible, partly because of poor financing and inadequate orientation.
1.14      The air transport subsector is of limited relevance to Bangladesh's
economy, in 1979, domestic air traffic amounted to about 1,800 tons of cargo
and 350,000 passengers. The state-owned airline, Bangladesh Biman, is the
only domestic operator and it also flies international routes in competition
with foreign airlines. Biman has four F27's for domestic routes and four
707's for international operations, it hopes to purchase or lease F28's for
domestic services and wide-bodied aircraft for international operations. In
addition to Dacca's Kurmitola International Airport, there are eight domestic
airports: Takurgaon, Saidpur, Jessore, Ishurdi, Sylhet, Comilla, Cox's Bazar
and Chittagong (which also receives a few international flights from
Calcutta). About eight additional airports now in disuse could be put in
operational condition with some minor investment. GOB's policy is to keep
domestic fares low, but since it does not provide direct subsidies to Biman,
there is cross-subsidization of domestic passengers by international
travelers.
D. Transport Administration and Planning
1.15      Most transport activities fall under the responsibility of either
the Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport Division or the Railways,
Roads, Highways and Road Transport Division of MTC. These divisions have
control over staff appointments and promotions, wages and salaries and
budgets of operating agencies and relevant private sector activities under
their respective jurisdiction. The civil aviation and airports subsector
comes under the Ministry of Defense. The Ministry of Finance and Planning is
responsible for coordinating transport investments and policies through its
Transport Section, on the basis of information collected and analyzed by its
Transport Survey Section.
1.16      Within the ministries, control is highly centralized, and coopera-
tion among the various ministries and agencies is largely informal. Invest-
ment priorities are not clearly. Experienced specialists have tended to seek
employment in the private sector and in the Middle East.
1.17      Several sector-wide issues have been identified in recent years.
First, capital investment tends to be seen by GOB as the principal remedy to
the ills of the sector. This attitude was encouraged in the early 1970's by
the urgent need to reconstruct the infrastructure badly damaged by war, and
militates against the allocation of resources for maintenance purposes.
Second, the large potential benefits to be gained trom improved operation and
management of public agencies in the sector have been overlooked. Third,
scarce funds, equipment and staff have frequently been spread over a large
number ot projects, and the ensuing dilution of resources has contributed to



-6-
slow project implementation. Finally, although the private sector plays an
important role in the road and inland water transport subsectors, its access
to foreign exchange and even local credit has been severely limited in recent
years.
1.18      GOB is struggling to resolve the above investment issues.  More
attention is beginning to be given to the rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing transport facilities. Also, because of the shortage of resources, a
number of projects have been by necessity indefinitely suspended and invest-
ment plans are becoming more selective with more emphasis on quicker yielding
projects. Finally, GOB policy is changing to encourage greater private
participation in the transport sector.
1.19      Bangladesh is well endowed with natural gas, but has to import its
crude oil and petroleum products requirements. The retail prices for motor
gasoline and high speed diesel in September 1981 were Taka 51.75 (US$2.88)
and Taka 24.31 (US$1.35) respectively per imperial gallon. Duties and taxes
included in the retail price amounted to 10% of the former and 6% of the
latter. The international prices, per imperial galon, based on August 1981
quotations CIF Chittagong, were estimated at US$1.32 for motor gasoline and
US$1.35 for high speed diesel. GOB policy is to pass on all price increases
to consumers.
E. Past IDA Assistance to the Transport Sector
1.20      Given the extensive involvement of the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
and bilateral financing agencies in Bangladesh's transport sector, IDA assis-
tance has been limited to the highway and inland water transport subsectors.
The First Highway Project (Credit 408-BD, US$25.0 million), approved in 1973,
reactivated a 1964 road project (Credit 53-PAK). Execution was very slow
because of the lack of suitable materials, poor performance of govern-
ment-supplied equipment, the inexperience of domestic contractors, and delays
in agreeing on the design and location of the new Highways Department head-
quarters building. Because of rapid price escalation, the scope of the
project, originally planned for upgrading the whole of the Dacca-Chittagong
road, had to be drastically curtailed. Of the three major components of the
project, one, the Sitalakhya Bridge, was completed and opened to traffic in
December 1977, the second, Feni Bypass, was completed and opened to traffic
in July 1979; and the third, the RHD headquarters building, was completed and
ready for occupancy by the end of 1979. Pavement failures on the Feni
Bypass, shortly after opening to traffic, have resulted in extension of the
Credit closing date to December 31, 1982 in order that unexpended project
funds may be utilized in necessary remedial works. GOB is currently con-
sidering alternative means of carrying out the necessary strengthening. The
Second Highway Project (Credit 964-BD, US$10.0 million), approved in December
1979, provides for the construction of bypasses round the congested towns of



-7-
Comilla and Chandina on the Dacca-Chittagong road. Delays in award of both
equipment supply contracts and construction contracts have resulted in the
loss of at least one construction season, but completion of construction by
the credit closing date of June 30, 1984 may be achieved.
1.21      The First Inland Water Transport Project (Credit 424-BD, US$4.1
million), approved in 1973, provided for acquisition of urgently needed spare
parts and equipment, and a supplementary credit (US$4.6 million), approved in
1975 financed an alternative oil transfer system at Chittagong, this project
has been successfully completed. A Project Completion Report (PCR) has been
prepared and the Operations Evaluation Department (OLD) is auditing the
project. The Second Inland Water Transport Project (Credit 735-BD, US$5.0
million), approved in July 1977, provides for acquisition of spare parts,
materials and equipment, and for technical assistance to strengthen the
planning, accounting and operational capabilities of agencies involved in the
inland water transport subsector. All the studies included in the project
have been completed and the implementation of the recommendations is cur-
rently in progress. The credit closing date has been extended to December
31, 1982.
1.22      The Fertilizer Transport Project (Credit 1096-BD, US$25 million),
approved in early 1981, will improve the availability of fertilizer to
farmers by expediting fertilizer handling and distribution, increasing the
efficiency and capacity of the transport sector, and encouraging private
sector participation in fertilizer distribution and transport. The project's
physical components, which have been designed to remove major bottlenecks in
the transport sector, include river port improvements, dredging at Chittagong
Port and unit block/train operations. IDA-assisted projects in other sectors
also occasionally include transport-related components, such as minor roads
in agricultural and fisheries projects.
1.23      Projects currently under discussion with GOB include a possible
Third Highway Project which would finance components to be identified under
the IDA-assisted Road Maintenance, Improvement and Rehabilitation Study. A
Secondary Roads Project, which would help improve rural and intercity com-
munications in selected districts and support GOB's production targets under
the MTFPP, is also being considered.
II. CHITTAGONG PORT
A. General
2.01      Chittagong has served as a maritime port for the northeastern part
of the Indian sub-continent for many centuries. Known to the Arabs and
Yemenis as "Chatigram" in the 9th century and to the Portugese as "Porto



-8-
Grande" in the 16th century, it played a long and active role in the maritime
trade of the region in the era of sailing vessels. With the construction of
jetties towards the turn of the century, Chittagong prepared itself to serve
the needs of the steamship. Although its function during the British rule
was subordinated to that of Calcutta, Chittagong became, after the partition
in 1947, the principal maritime port of East Pakistan. The port suffered
badly during the War of Liberation in 1971 but recovered rapidly to become
the premier port of Bangladesh.
2.02      Chittagong is located on the right bank of the Karnafuli River
about 15 km upstream from its mouth on the Bay of Bengal (Map IBRD 16051).
The access to the port is restricted by a bar at the river mouth and by a
sharp bend in the river. The former places a limit on the draft and the
latter on the length of the vessels that can use the port. Average depth
over the bar below chart datum varies from 4.5 m in the dry season to 5.2 m
in the wet season. As the mean high water level reaches 3.80 m and 2.90 m
above the chart datum at spring and neap tides, the range of draft for ves-
sels entering the port on flood tide is 7.5 to 8.4 m during wet season and
6.8 to 7.7 in the dry season. The maximum length of the ship that can clear
the bend is 184 m. During night hours, permitted lengths of vessels are 160
m for outward and 138 m for inward movements respectively. The draft limita-
tion results in substantial amounts of bulk cargo (mainly grain, fertilizers
and oil) having to be lightered in the outer anchorage. Despite these con-
straints, the port's traffic has grown steadily from 3.58 m tons in 1973-74
to 6.2 m tons in 1979-80.
2.03      Pilotage is compulsory for ocean shipping.  The ship movements
commence about 4 to 5 hours before day/night high water. The access channels
in the sea and the river are adequately buoyed and equipped with range
markers. The VHF international calling/safety channel and the port opera-
tional channel are constantly monitored. The port's services are available
round the clock and seven days a week. Chittagong is well connected to the
capital city of Dacca by road (260 km) and by rail (320 km).
B. Organization and Administration
2.04      Prior to 1947, Chittagong was administered by Commissioners
appointed under the "Chittagong Port Commissioners Act" of 1887. With parti-
tion of India in 1947 and formation of Pakistan, the port came under the
control of Minister of Railways and Communications and the berths and shore
installations were administered by the Railways and the Commissioners acted
as Conservators (in charge of harbor, navigational aids and pilotage, a sort
of dual control). This arrangement continued till 1960, when the Chittagong
Port (Amendment) Ordinance created the "Chittagong Port Trust" which held
charge of the port for a decade. After independence from Pakistan and with
the creation of Bangladesh (1971), GOB being convinced that more autonomy



-9-
should be given to the port, created the Chittagong Port Authority (CPA)
under Ordinance No. Lll dated 1976. CPA is managed by a Board, comprising
a Chairman and three members, which reports to the Secretary, Ports, Shipping
and Inland Waterways Division of MTC. The Government has in consultation
with CPA appointed an Advisory Committee of port users to voice their views
and expectations regarding the port's services. This Committee is headed by
the CPA Chairman and includes ten other members.
2.05      The Chairman of the Board is the chief executive, who is respon-
sible for supervision and control of all port activities. The three members
heac the departments of (i) engineering and development, (ii) operations, and
(iii) finance. In addition ,the Secretary of the Board heads a secretariat
whfih is responsible for a number of administrative functions (Chart 1).
2.06      The powers and functions of the Authority are laid down in the
ordinance (1976) which authorizes the CPA: (i) to manage, maintain, improve
and develop the port; (ii) to provide and maintain adequate and efficient
services in the port and in the approaches of the port; (iii) to regulate and
control berthing and the movements of vessels and navigation within the port,
(iv) to construct and maintain facilities, (v) to be responsible for the
financial consequences of its activities, (vi) to borrow funds with prior GOB
approval, and (vii) to set tariff rates, but prior Government approval is
required before the rates are officially published.
2.07      While the above provisions indicate delegation of considerable
autonomy and independence to CPA, in practice they are applied only to its
day-to-day operations, since decisions of any major consequence cannot be
taken without reference to GOB. This is especially true in matters of staff-
ing and finance. The Chairman is appointed from the Civil Service cadre and
his tenure is for three years. This system, especially the short tenure of
the Chairman, is not conducive to good management as it does not provide for
continuity, which is needed in operating a large and complex organization as
the port. The advisability of increasing the Chairman's tenure has been
brought to the attention of the Secretary MTC.
2.08      Staff and Labor:  There are 150 otficers and about 7,000 other
employees which is high, especially since about another 6,000 laborers are
hired from local contractors for handling of cargo on the quays and in the
sheds. Almost all employees are members of one of the four unions, not all
of which are recognized. The practice is to recognize that union as a bar-
gaining agent which has been successful in getting the largest number of
employees as members. Unions are politically affiliated and are strong
enough to be able to challenge or forestall the management's decisions on
disciplinary action.
2.09      There is ample evidence that CPA is over-staffed and
under-officered. A number of studies e.g., Bangladesh Transport Survey
(1973), Louis Berger (1974), NEI (1978), have recommended organizational and



-10-
other changes, and have also stated that the port is overstaffed. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that CPA will make a careful assessment
of the manpower requirements in the different categories of staff and by
December 31, 1983 implement a program satisfactory to IDA for correcting the
imbalances.
2.10      CPA's organizational framework is satisfactory to cope with the
variety of present activities. A general weakness in the present organiza-
tion is that there is inadequate delegation of authority and responsibility
to lower levels in the organization. This in part, has to do with the lack
of skilled and experienced staff. Many of those who do attain the skilled
level leave for the Middle East. An effective training program covering all
levels of staff will go a long way to improve the operations and management
of CPA. Recognizing the need for such a program CPA has recently started a
Training Institute, but it will have to be properly housed, staffed and
equipped before it can fulfill its objective.
2.11     Planning:  In CPA planning activity is weak because of lack of
coordination between engineering and development, traffic and finance
activities. There is a planning unit under the engineering and development
department but its function is geared mainly towards meeting the Government's
reporting requirements relating to works under annual and five year plans.
While potential projects under the present system get identified, financing
and execution of the projects do not get the required attention. For
example, traffic and financial forecasts for five year periods are not
prepared, and it could be stated that planning is limited to the preparation
of the annual budget. Clearly defined objectives and the means to achieve
these are not planned ahead ari; determina_`on of prioritles seems absent.
2.12      In the past the need for formal planning may not have been felt,
because there was enough rehabilitation work to be done as a consequence of
damages caused to the port facilities during the war of independence. As
resource constraints, especially the lack of foreign exchange, become more
acute, the need for more formal planning has been recognized. Accordingly,
CPA agreed to strengthen and expand the functions of the Planning Cell.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Planning Cell would be
reorganized in a manner satisfactory to IDA by January 1, 1983.
C. Existing Facilities
2.13      The facilities available at the port fall under three main groups
viz. (i) general cargo berths, (ii) specialized berths and (iii) barge and
coaster wharves (Map IBRD-16051)-
2.14      The general cargo berths include 13 marginal berths (Nos I to 13),
2 pontoon berths (Nos 14 and 15) and 2 light deck wharves (Nos 16 and 17).



-11-
Berths 1 to 6, which were originally constructed at the turn of the century,
have been replaced by new ones built during the seventies, while berths 7 to
13 are between 30 and 40 years old. Pontoon berths 14 and 15, which were
built in 1952 as an emergency measure have no vehicular access, and berths
16 and 17 built in 1953 are subject to loading restrictions due to structural
deterioration. Berths 1 to 13 are equipped with 39 rail mounted electric
portal wharf cranes. Other equipment available for handling general cargo
includes 28 mobile cranes, 20 tractors, 49 trailers, 31 scammels, 22 trucks,
45 forklifts and 28 battery operated trucks. Except for berths No 11 and 17,
all the general cargo berths are provided with transit sheds (86,000 m2).
Under the reconstruction program, new sheds are nearing completion at berths
1, 2, 4, 5, and 6. Nine of the transit sheds are served by railway sidings
both at the front and the rear and six at the rear only. A program of paving
the sidings in the port area is underway to facilitate movement of road
vehicles and cargo handling equipment. The port has 16 warehouses (about
82,000 m2) of which one is reserved for vehicle imports, one for hazardous
goods, and two for exports and the remaining twelve for imports. In addition.
there are six warehouses (50,000 m2) outside the port area.
2.15      The specialized berths are built and operated by public sector
corporations under license from the CPA which owns the river front. The
cement clinker jetty, the grain silo jetty, the TSP jetty and oil jetties are
operated respectively by the Bangladesh Cement Corporation, Food Corporation,
TSP factory and Petrobangla. In addition to the dues levied on the vessels
using these berths, CPA recovers from the corporations half the regular
landing charges on the bulk cargo handled across them. The cement clinker
jetty can receive vessels upto 170 m in length. It is equipped with a bucket
wheel unloader but due to mechanical problems, the machine has been hardly
used. At present, clinker is discharged with grabs operated by ships gear
and unloaded on the jetty from which it is fed to the conveyor belt by manual
labor. The grain silo jetty has two berths, the large one capable of dis-
charging 184 m vessels with a draft of 8 m and the small one for discharging
or loading barges/coasters. The former berth is equipped with two mobile
grain elevators of 100 tons per hour nominal capacity. Two conveyor belts
transport the grain to a silo complex with a storage capacity of 100,000 tons
and equipped with facilities for bagging and for bulk loading of grain into
trucks or railway wagons. The small jetty has a fixed elevator/loader which
is served by a reversible conveyor belt. The TSP jetty, which can service
vessels up to 160 m in length is equipped with 4 hoppers discharging over a
conveyor belt leading to the factory storage. Bulk fertilizer is discharged
into the hoppers using semi-automatic grabs operated with ships gear. Bulk
mineral oil is handled at two lighter jetties and four river moorings, all of
which are provided with pipelines for transferring crude and petroleum
products to the storage tanks. Another river mooring is used for discharging
vegetable oil, tallow and molasses.



-12-
2.16       Barge and coaster berths for dry cargo other than coal are located
mainly at the Inland Water port at Sadarghat, upstream of the general cargo
berths. Coal, which comes mostly from Calcutta in small vessels, is handled
at a river mooring located near the oil berths.
D. Operations
2.17       Throughput:  During 1979/80, Chittagong port handled some 6.2
million tons comprising 1.8 m tons of liquid bulk (crude, POL), 2.8 m tons
of dry bulk (grain, fertilizer, cement clinker and coal) and 1.6 m tons of
general cargo including 2,235 containers. The port's traffic includes nearly
3.0 m tons of liquid and dry bulk cargo lightered in the outer anchorage and
rehandled at Chittagong port. Of the dry bulk cargo, 2.1 m tons were handled
at the specialized berths and moorings, and the balance of 0.7 m tons of dry
bulk together with 1.6 m tons of general cargo or a total of 2.3 m tons
through the general cargo berths. A total of 942 vessels were serviced
during the year at the general cargo berths and the average berth occupancy
was as high as 92%. The average detention to shipping was 4 days per ship
bringing the total of shipdays lost in waiting time to 3,768, during the
year. These delays resulted in surcharges of 10% and 20% being levied by
various shipping conferences during three periods between June and December
1979. The high berth occupancy and the projected growth of traffic, par-
ticularly containerized cargo, highlight the urgent need for suitably improv-
ing the port's throughput capacity to match the needs not only of the
expected increase in the traffic but also of the growing trend of con-
tainerization and the recently introduced ro-ro service.
2.18      Cargo Handling:  The ship-shore transfer of general cargo is
effected mainly with ships gear and wharf cranes but manual labor is largely
used for the movement of cargo to transit sheds and for delivery to trucks or
railway wagons.  Extensive use is made of rail wagons for intra-port move-
ments. This operation is slow and inefficient, because of unrealiable
availability of wagons and locos, and compares unfavorably with the use of
trucks. There is a good case for curtailment and eventual phasing out of
rail movement within the port area. The average throughput per berth per
annum in 1979-80 was 144,000 tons while in the past throughputs of more than
190,000 tons have been achieved at these berths. Although at first glance
these throughput figures appear very satisfactory, they are in fact con-
siderably lower than what could be expected, it due allowance is made for the
substantial tonnage of bulk (grain) and semi-bulk (bagged fertilizer)
included in the tonnage and the two shifts working which is normal practice.
Analysis of available statistics indicates that the output of break-bulk
cargo is about 261 tons per ship-day, while that of grain (discharged with
vacuators) and bagged cargo (handled with ships gear and manual labor) was
1,300 tons and 582 tons per ship day respectively. The average output per
gang hour is 3.2 tons. Clearly there is much scope and need for improvement
in cargo handling rates. Use of pallets for transit storage of general cargo



-13-
has been tried and found to speed up cargo movement and also to make effi-
cient use of transit shed space. Experiments of importing fertilizer in bulk
and bagging it on the wharf have shown encouraging results both as regards
the cost of fertilizer and tons handled per ship-day. These improved methods
should be continued and brought into regular usage. During negotiations,
assurance was obtained that CPA would; (i) extend the palletization scheme to
more berths as additional fork lifts are acquired; and (ii) take up a phased
program for reducing railway movement and tracks in the port area, and that
GOB would arrange that import of fertilizer at Chittagong would be in bulk
to the extent possible and that it would be bagged locally.
2.19      Poor performance and low availability of cargo handling equipment
are major contributing factors to the low handling rates. The performance of
the wharf cranes is so unreliable that vessels prefer to use their own gear,
even though they have to pay hire charge for wharf cranes whether used or
not. Records show that on average the handling rate with ships gear is
higher than that with the wharf cranes. Electrical power failures, operator
delays and poor maintenance are the main causes for the high down time of
these cranes. Battery operated trucks also have similar poor record but the
chief problem in this case is the excessive time lost in charging of bat-
teries and non-availability of spare parts. Condition of other items of
equipment like mobile cranes, fork lifts, tractors etc. is also well below
the required standard. High proportion of overaged equipment, lack of main-
tenance, shortage of spares, faulty operation and misuse of equipment, inade-
quate capacity and distant location of repair workshops have been identified
as the main factors which have contributed to the low performance of equip-
ment. To remedy this situation, provision has been made in the proposed
project for: a) replacement of overaged equipment; b) technical assistance
for developing a proper maintenance program and inventory control system for
spares and training of operators, and c) central and zonal workshops. Since
procurement of spares will be critically dependent upon the availability of
foreign exchange, assurance was obtained from GOB during negotiations that
adequate amount of foreign exchange for this purpose will be provided to CPA
on a regular basis. The proposed repair facilities will be equipped mainly
for preventive maintenance and servicing of equipment, but not for major
overhaul or renewal, for which CPA should use the services of private
workshops in Chittagong. Agreement in this regard was reached with CPA
during negotiations. Assurance was also obtained that CPA would complete
necessary improvements to the port's electrical network by December 31, 1983.
2.20      For improving the cargo operations, it is necessary not only to
replace overaged equipment but also to provide additional equipment for
handling the expected increase of general cargo traffic and also of con-
tainers. To meet this need, provision has been made in the project for the
procurment of adequate equipment together with spares for 3 years.
2.21      Work Shifts:  Although the port is officially open for working
round the clock, the port labor works in two regular shifts, with gaps in



-14-
between which are covered by overtime work if required. Because higher
charges are applicable during overtime hours, cargo working outside regular
shift hours is not a normal feature. The long gaps between shifts result in
considerable loss of time in closing hatches, returning equipment to garage
etc. The operations suffer further due to the shift hours of tally clerks
being different trom those of the port labor. In the interest of efficient
operations, it is highly desirable that CPA introduces two regular shifts
(without gap) to be followed by a third shift on an optional basis, and that
the same timings are observed by both the labor and all the CPA staff
assigned to cargo operations. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with CPA that such new system would be in operation by December 1, 1982.
2.22      Port Working System:  All cargo handling in the port is carried out
by licensed contractors. Stevedoring firms engaged by the ship's agents
attend to ship-shore movement. Transfer of cargo between the hook and tran-
sit sheds/storage areas and between the latter and the warehouses is
entrusted to shore handling and jetty handling contractors engaged by CPA.
There are more than 50 firms who undertake these contracts, many of whom are
inexperienced. Up to four contractors are involved in handling the same
cargo at different stages of its passage through the port. This contributes
to damage and pilferage of cargo and inefficient use of labor.   The contrac-
tors hire the labor through the unions and pay them by time at rates fixed by
collective bargaining. The payment received by the contractors is based on
rates per ton of cargo handled. This arrangement should have caused the
contractor to make every effort to get the most out of the labor, but judging
from the handling rates in the port, there is little evidence of such concern
on the part of the contractor, apparently because in negotiating the tonnage
rate he allows for a low level of productivity. It may be possible to
improve the performance, if a bonus is paid when the average output per shift
exceeds an agreed level. GOB has approved, in December 1980, a scheme for
the regulation of employment of Chittagong Dock Workers, under which a Dock
Workers Management Board has been recently constituted. The Board will
maintain a register of dock workers and employers and be responsible, inter
alia, for making payment to the workers (from deposits to be made in advance
by employers), taking disciplinary action and arranging training courses and
welfare measures. CPA has recently taken action to reduce the number of
licensed contractors from 55 to 33. During negotiations, assurance was
obtained that in consultation with the Dock Workers Management Board, CPA
will examine the desirability of further reducing the number of licenced
contractors by raising the qualification criteria and of introducing a bonus
scheme or other suitable measures to improve cargo handling performance of
the contractors and to implement such measures in consultation with IDA.
2.23      Cargo Clearance:  It is not surprising that, like many other ports,
Chittagong also suffers from slow cargo clearance. According to the Port's
statistics, cargo remaining uncleared on June 8, 1981 amounted to 83,822
tons. This included 77,845 tons lying for less than 2 months, 4,548 tons
over 2 months, 791 tons over 4 months and 638 tons over 6 months bringing the



-15-
average dwell time to more than 35 days. More than 25% of the cargo remain-
ing uncleared for more than 2 months belonged to public sector corporations,
whose inability to take delivery of their cargo stems generally from a com-
bination of administrative, budgetary and cash-flow problems. The defaulters
in the private sector, who account for nearly 75% of cargo lying over 2
months and 87% of that lying less than 2 months, are mostly the industrial
importers who often have difficulty in mobilizing necessary cash in time.
The current tariff for storage provides for a free period of 4 days and for
stepping up of rates as storage periods increase; an increase in the tariff
will not by itself be effective as the parties concerned are able to pass on
most of the additional cost to the consumer. Remedial measures to overcome
the difficulties experienced by importers in both the public and private
sector entities would be more productive. Stricter enforcement of the rules
for disposal of uncleared cargo by customs also would help. The period after
which uncleared cargo is removed to the customs enclosure or auctioned off
should be reduced from 60 to 45 days and this should be applied uniformly
to both public and private sector cargos. There is also scope for streamlin-
ing the customs processing of the bill of entry by telescoping/deleting some
steps. During negotiations, agreement was reached that CPA/GOB will by June
30, 1983 develop and implement a plan of action to bring down the dwell time
of cargo in the port area to less than 25 days. Storage charges, which
account for about 35% of CPA's revenues will go down to about 25% with the
reduced dwell time. However, this will be offset by the increase in the
revenue when the tariffs are revised to reflect the cost of services (para
5.04). It is expected that the storage charges would then be higher than
those in the private sector. -
2.24      Organizational Changes:  The present organization of the operations
department, which does not permit adequate supervision of the wharf and shed
activities, needs to be improved. The traffic manager is assisted by three
jetty superintendents, one in the head office and two in the Port area. The
administrative and paper work related to the operations in the port area
extending over 17 general cargo berths, special berths, outer anchorage and
the storage area keeps the two jetty superintendents, two assistant jetty
superintendents and three assistant traffic officers so fully occupied that
they are hardly able to supervise the operations. It has been proposed that
the present operations area should be divided into four zones and each zone
should be placed under the charge of an assistant traffic manager, who will
be assisted by traffic officers and assistant traffic officers/foreman so
that adequate attention could be given to administrative as well as super-
visory duties. An additional zone should be set up to cover the multipurpose
berths when they become operational. There is also need for reorganizing the
Maintenance Department. The staff responsible for repair and maintenance of
cargo handling equipment are also responsible for other duties such as civil
and electrical work in the colony, the maintenance of cars and light tran-
sports of CPA, maintenance of lights, fans and air conditioners in office and
residential building etc. In discharging their several duties, the staff do



-16-
not give to cargo equipment the priority it deserves. To correct this situa-
tion it is proposed that a separate division should be established and placed
in the charge of a senior official whose main responsibility would be to
maintain and repair cargo handling equipment. This change should be possible
mostly through reorganization of existing staff. CPA has accepted in prin-
ciple the need for making the above changes and is working out detailed
proposals. During negotiation, agreement was reached with CPA that the
proposed organizational changes, satisfactory to IDA, would be made effective
by June 30, 1983.
2.25      Training Needs:  A review of the port's operations points to the
need for training in all aspects of dock-work involving personnel from manual
grades through to supervisory level. An effective training program is an
essential prerequisite for Chittagong's advent into the era of modern tech-
nology. CPA has already made a modest beginning with training classes held
in an old warehouse building, but substantial improvement in the scope,
organization and planning of the scheme is needed. The establishment of a
properly planned and staffed Training Institute is proposed. Provision is
made in the project for a building to house the institute and for the serv-
ices of specialists to assist in the planning, organization, and initial
running of the training program. The first priority would be to upgrade the
skills of the operators for cargo handling equipment and to have sufficient
number trained before the new equipment to be procured under the proposed
project is delivered. At the same time, there would be courses for tally
clerks/checkers, shed supervisors, traffic officers and for the staff engaged
in the maintenance and servicing of the cargo handling equipment. This part
of the program would be initiated as soon as possible. The second priority
will be to train personnel for the operations at the proposed MPBs. The long
term objective of the program would be to provide training courses for all
categories of port workers, employed not only by CPA but also by stevedores
and cargo handling contractors, shipping agents, clearing and forwarding
agents, customs and transport services etc. In due course, the Institute may
also undertake the training of apprentices, as and when an apprenticeship
scheme is adopted for ensuring an adequate supply of suitable workers for the
port industry. During negotiations, assurance was obtained that CPA would by
November 1, 1982 organize a training program satisfactory to IDA and arrange
for a sufficient number of equipment operators to be trained by April 1,
1983, when the delivery of the new equipment is scheduled to begin.
E. Development Strategy
2.26      Because of the draft and length restrictions to which ships using
the Port of Chittagong are subjected, GOB/CPA have under consideration the
development of an outer port at Patenga on the right bank of Karnafuli just
near its mouth. The main benefits expected from the outer port are: (a) the
elimination of the present lighterage operations in the outer anchorage; and



-17-
(b) substantial freight savings due to the possible use of 5G,000 DWT vessels
for the import of bulk commodities. Although the Patenga location would be
free from the restriction on the length of ships, it would still be subject
to some draft restrictions as the working depth would depend entirely on the
extent to which it would be feasible to dredge and maintain a channel across
the outer bar. With a view to assessing the optimum depth that can be
economically achieved and the estimated cost of capital and maintenance
dredging involved therein, CPA has embarked on a project of trial dredging
with financial assistance from IDA (Credit 1096-BD). The dredging operations
which commenced in April 1981 are expected to continue for about a year.
Some indication about the feasibility of dredging will be available in the
latter part of 1982. Even if the indications are positive, it would not be
practical or advisable to attempt to carry out in one operation the dredging
to the full depth of -11.7 m required to service 50,000 DWT vessels. This
represents an increase of nearly 4.5 m above the present depth resulting in a
significant change in the regime of the river, which experience suggests
should be avoided. It would be desirable to carry out the deepening in three
stages of 1.5 m each, so that the river would have an opportunity to stabi-
lize between stages and the effects of the dredging in one stage before
action is taken on the next could be carefully monitored. Thus even under
optimistic assumptions, the working depth required for the outer port would
not be attained for at least another 15 years.
2.27      The implications of the possible diversion of traffic to the Port
of Chalna need to be considered before deciding on a major development like
the outer port at Patenga, if on completion of the on-going studies on the
siltation problems in the Pussur River (para 1.11), it is determined that the
present draft restrictions at Chalna can be eliminated or substantially
reduced. Therefore Patenga development should not start for several more
years.
2.28      Another alternative which could affect the decision on Patenga is
the offshore bulk terminal recommended by the USAID financed study carried
out by SOROS Associates (USA). However, traffic is unlikely to be sufficient
to justify the high cost of this alternative in the near future.
2.29      Since none of the alternatives is a short term proposition, the
only possibility of meeting the growing needs of traffic in the immediate
future is by improvement and expansion of the facilities in the existing
port. The strategy for port development in the short and medium term should
theretore be directed to: (a) improving the throughput of the existing
general cargo and specialized berths, and (b) providing additional capacity
in stages by constructing new berths between berths No. 13 and the cement
clinker jetty. The new development should be tested for economic and finan-
cial viability under the present restrictions on both the draft and length of
vessels but the berth structures should be designed for alongside depth of 10
m to provide for the possibility that it would be feasible to make the access



-18-
channel suitable for the entry of 184 m, vessels at tull draft.  Any develop-
ment of the existing port should be compatible with the plans under con-
sideration (Patenga and bulk terminal) for meeting the long term needs. The
provision made in the project for procurement of new cargo handling equip-
ment, improvement of maintenance and repairs and training of dock workers
would increase the throughput of general cargo berths. In the case of the
specialized berths, the respective operators would have to take the necessary
improvement action. The Grain Silo Berth should be able to discharge 800,000
tons of grain per year if arrangements are made for installing weighing
equipment, improving the offtake from the silos and increasing the flat
storage capacity. The TSP and Cement Clinker jetties should have no dif-
ficulty in handling all the fertilizer raw materials and clinker imports
forecast for the decade. During negotiations agreement was reached that
grain would not be required to be handled at the general cargo berths unless
the imports exceed 800,000 tons per year or subject to severe bunching condi-
tions and that cement clinker and fertilizer raw materials would be handled
wholly at the specialized berths. The two multipurpose berths proposed under
this project conform fully to the above strategy.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Composition
3.01      The primary objective of the project is to provide the Port of
Chittagong with adequate capacity for handling the expected growth in general
cargo and container traffic through the early nineties. This will be
achieved firstly by constructing two multipurpose berths suitable for servic-
ing general cargo as well as container vessels and secondly by improving the
throughput of the existing berths through the provision of new cargo handling
equipment and training of the port workers.
3.02      The scope of the project is adapted from the feasibility study
carried out by CPA with the help of its consultants (Maunsell Consultants,
Australia and Engineering Consultants and Associates Ltd, Dacca) in 1980/81
under IDA Credit 872-BD. To meet the long term requirement of container
traffic, it is proposed to construct two new berths along the undeveloped
riverbank upstream of No. 14 berth. The berths will be designed to carry
gantry cranes and other container handling equipment. However, no gantry
cranes are to be provided now as the container traffic in the early years of
development is expected to be moved in vessels equipped with their own
cranes. Provision for yard equipment and back-up facilities (storage yard,
freight station, etc.) will be adequate to meet the traffic needs in the
initial years. It is envisaged that suitable augmentation of these
facilities as also the addition of gantry cranes would be made at a later
stage as and when required. For an orderly and rapid development of etfi-
cient container operations, CPA should have the full cooperation and support



-19-
of all the parties concerned. To this end, CPA has constituted a Container
Development Committee for coordinating the procedures for handling and
storage of containers, and for developing suitable procedures for smooth
processing of documents, quick clearance through customs and inland movement
of containers etc. During negotiations, it was agreed that the composition
and terms of reference of the committee would be reviewed in consultation
with IDA.
3.03      Pending the construction of the new berths, container vessels are
to be serviced at existing berths No. 10 and 11. Two of the existing
warehouses and a part of the paved area available near these berths together
with the yard equipment to be provided under this project will serve as the
interim container facilities. Because of limitations of deck loading, the
container operations at these berths would be confined to the use of ships
gear and tractor/trailer units, as the wheel loads of fork lifts, mobile
cranes or straddle carriers would be too heavy.
3.04      For improving the operations at the general cargo berths, it is
proposed to replace overaged equipment and to provide additional cargo han-
dling equipment. Furthermore, technical assistance will be provided to
develop an effective program for preventive maintenance of equipment and for
the training of operators, dock workers and warehouse supervisors.
B. Project Description
3.05      The project will comprise:
a) Two Multipurpose Berths (Map IBRD-16052)
i) Construction of two multipurpose berths of a total length of
450 meters (including a 45 meter ramp for ro-ro vessels) with
alongside depth of 10 m below port datum, fitted with rails to
carry gantry cranes;
ii) Provision of back-up facilities including paved storage area
for containers (about 150,000 m2) container freight station
(13,650 m2), office and other buildings, custom fencing, garage
and workshops, services and utilities; and
iii) Provision of container handling equipment: two mobile cranes
(35 T @ 40 m), 11 fork-lift trucks (25-30 T) 23 fork-lift trucks
(3-5 T), and 8 tractor-trailer units.



-20-
b) Cargo Handling Equipment
i) For interim container facilities: 5 rubber tired portal cranes
(35 T), 3 fork-lift trucks (30 T); (for use in storage yard)
and 21 tractor-trailer units.
ii) For replacement of overaged equipment: 30 fork-lift trucks (3 T),
8 tractors, 16 trailers, 3 mobile cranes (10, 20 and 40 T);
iii) Additional equipment for general cargo berths: 38 fork-lifts
(3-5 T), 8 tractors, 35 railers, 4 mobile cranes (10, 20 and
40 T);
iv) Spares for 3 years.
c) Maintenance Facilities
Provision of one central and four zonal workshops with necessary
equipment and auxilliaries.
d)  Training Institute
Additions and alteration to the Institute building and
furnishing it with necessary equipment and auxilliaries.
e) Technical Assistance for:
i) developing and putting into operation a preventive maintenance
program;
ii) training of equipment operators, dock workers, tally clerks,
and supervisors;
iii) developing a long-term training program and organizing the
working of the Training Institute;
iv) overseas fellowships;
v) developing a port management information system and training
staff for its operation; and
vi) preparing a manual detailing the procedures and documentation
for container operations and training CPA staff in the
management and operation of the container facilities.
f) Engineering services for:
i) detailed engineering of back-up facilities; and



-21-
ii) supervision of the contracts for civil works and procurement
of equipment.
C. Technical Evaluation
3.06      The main considerations taken into account in the technical evalua-
tion of the project were:
i) conformity of the proposed berths with CPA's development strategy
and with the Master Plan for future development of Chittagong
Port;
ii)  suitability of soil conditions for the pile construction proposed
for the multipurpose berths;
iii) need for two berths for handling the expected growth of container
traffic to 90,000 TEU by 1990;
iv)  suitability of the lay-out proposed for the storage yard and
container freight station for phased expansion to suit container
traffic growth;
v) suitability of the parameters of the design vessel, (viz. overall
length of 184 m, maximum draft of 9.1 m and maximum capacity of
20,000 DWT) for which the length, alongside depth and fendering
system of the berths are designed;,
vi)  adequacy ot the loadings for the design of the decking;
vii) suitability and adequacy of the equipment proposed for handling
containers and general cargo; and
viii) availability of land for future expansion of storage yard and
CFS capacity.
D. Cost Estimates
3.07      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$110.0 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$60.0 million, which would be financed
under the proposed development credit. Details of the cost estimates are
given in Table 1 and are summarized below:



-22-
---- Taka million -----    ---- US$ million 
Local    Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign Total
a) Multipurpose Berths
i) Berth structures        198.90   255.60   454.50   11.05   14.20   25.25
ii) Back-up facilities      200.34    81.90   282.24   11.13    4.55   15.68
iii) Container Handling
Equipment               94.32   155.34   249.66    5.24    8.63   13.87
b) Cargo Handling Equipment
i) Interim Container
Facility                62.64   100.98   163.62    3.48    5.61    9.09
ii) Replacement Equipment   37.26    61.92    99.18    2.07    3.44    5.51
iii) Additional Equipment    37.98    64.44   102.42    2.11    3.58    5.69
c) Maintenance Facility       33.48    19.80    53.28    1.86    1.10    2.96
d) Training Institute          11.88     9.00    20.88    0.66    0.50    1.16
e) Technical Assistance                 35.46    35.46              1.97    1.97
f) Engineering Services                 64.44    64.44              3.58    3.58
Base Cost                 676.80   848.88 1,525.68   37.60   47.16   84.76
g) Contingencies
Physical                   54.36    61.38   115.74    3.02    3.41    6.43
Price                     168.84   169.74   338.58    9.38    9.43   18.81
Grand Total               900.00 1,080.00 1,980.00   50.00   60.00  110.00
3.08      The base cost estimate of civil works and equipment has been
obtained by updating to January 1982 of the consultant's estimate which was
based on January 1981 prices.  The latter estimate was prepared on cost of
materials and labor in Chittagong area and on the recent bids and prices
(inclusive of duties and taxes) quoted for comparable work and equipment and
are considered to be realistic. Contingency provision has been made for:
(a) physical variation in civil works at 8% in the case of the berth struc-
tures and 20% in the case of the back-up facilities and other works for which
detailed engineering has not been prepared yet; and for (b) annual price
escalation on foreign cost at 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983 to 1985 and 6% for
1986-87 and on local costs at 11% for 1982-87. Provision for technical
assistance allows for 132 man-months of expatriate specialist services at
US$10,000 per man-month and 96 man-months of local/regional expertise at
US$3,000 per man-month.
E. Financing Plan
3.09      The proposed IDA financing for the project would cover the
estimated foreign exchange cost of US$60.0 million. Of the local currency
costs estimated at US$50.0 million, US$35.0 million would be met by CPA from
its own reserves and the balance of US$15.0 million would be provided by GOB.



-23-
3.10      GOB will be the Borrower and CPA the Executing Agency for this
project. The proceeds of the development credit will be on-lent to CPA under
a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. During negotiation, agreement was reached with GOB regarding
the on-lending terms (para 5.21). Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement
would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
F. Execution of the Project
3.11      CPA will be responsible for the execution of the project in accord-
ance with the provisions of a Project Agreement to be signed between CPA and
the Association. As indicated in the bar chart (Table 2), proJect implemen-
tation is expected to take about 5 years from July 1982 to June 1987. During
negotiations, the implementation program was agreed with CPA.
3.12      For attending to the various administrative, coordination and
monitoring functions necessary for the proper execution of the project, CPA
would establish under the Chief Engineer Planning and Development, a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with a senior engineer as its head and an account-
ant and an office manager as its members and provide it with adequate support
staff. Appointment of the key members of the PIU whose qualifications and
experience would be satisfactory to the Association would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit.
3.13      For the preparation of detailed engineering and bid documents for
the back-up facilities, and for the supervision of the contracts for civil
works and equipment procurement, CPA will need to retain the services of
consulting engineers. During negotiations, agreement was reached with CPA
that the qualifications, experience, terms of references and the terms of
appointment of such consulting engineers and the principles and procedures
of such appointment would be satisfactory to the Association on the basis
of the Bank Group's Guidelines (August 1981).
3.14      The area at the back of the proposed site for MPBs, which is under
lease to four public sector agencies has to be vacated and cleared well
before the construction of the berths is scheduled to start. CPA and GOB
have already initiated action to terminate the leases and to bring pressure
on the tenants to vacate the premises. The lessees have started the process
of moving their effects and are expected to complete it by June 30, 1982.
However, because of the importance of this issue, for the timely implementa-
tion of the project, it should be a condition of effectiveness that CPA shall
have obtained vacant possession of all the land abutting the MPB site.  GOB
approval of the Project Proforma should also be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness.



-24-
G. Procurement
3.15      Contracts for the construction of the MPBs and for the major com-
ponents of the back-up facilities totalling about US$34.0 million would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) after pre-
qualification of bidders in accordance with the Association's guidelines.
Eligible local bidders would be affored a preference of 7 1/2% under ICB
procurement. Minor civil works of estimated contract size less than US$1.0
million, aggregating to US$6.0 million would be procured in accordance with
local bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association and under which
foreign bidders would have opportunity to participate. Procurement of all
cargo handling and other equipment also would be made through ICB. A
preference of 15% of the CIF cost or the customs duty and taxes, whichever is
less, will be allowed in the case of items of local manufacture, but it is
not likely that any of the items to be procured will be locally manufactured.
Documents for all contracts estimated to cost over US$200,000 for civil works
and US$50,000 for equipment and other goods, will be reviewed by IDA before
the bids are invited.
XH. Disbursements
3.16      Previous experience, as reflected in actual disbursement profiles,
indicates that transport projects in South Asia, as well as all projects in
Bangladesh, normally require seven to eight years for full implementation.
However, in the case of the proposed project, it is considered reasonable to
allow a shorter implementation period. The construction of berths, which
will be the subject of international competitive bidding is expected to be
carried out by foreign contractors who will be imploying modern work methods
and equipment, this component, which has the longest lead time, would nor-
mally require less than three years for completion, but to allow for local
conditions, it is conservatively estimated to take four years. In the case
of the procurement of equipment, which is the other major component of the
project, the suppliers would be reputable foreign firms selected from inter-
national bidders and can be expected to effect timely deliveries. An
implementation period of five years should be adequate for this project.
3.17      The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
I. Civil Works
i) Berth structures                      56% of total cost
ii) Back-up facilities,         )
Maintenance facilities    )           31% of total cost
and Training Institute    )
II. Equipment                                100% of foreign expenditure
if imported, 100% of ex-
factory cost if locally



-25-
manufactured, and 65% of
total cost if procured
locally other than
ex-factory.
III. Technical Assistance
and Engineering Services                  100% of total cost
The above proposals would cover disbursement of the full estimated
foreign exchange cost of the project and the local costs in the case of III
but not duties and taxes.
3.18      Table 3 gives the estimated schedule of disbursements based on the
above proposals and the implementation program (Table 2). As the execution
of the project is expected to be completed by June 1987, the proposed closing
date for the credit is December 31, 1987.
I. Monitoring
3.19      For facilitating the monitoring of the project execution, CPA
should: (i) submit to IDA quarterly progress reports in specified formats,
(ii) maintain separate account of the financial transactions relating to the
project and have it audited annually by an independent auditor satisfactory
to the Association; and (iii) prepare a project completion report within six
months of the closing of the credit. Agreement was reached during nego-
tiations that CPA would comply with the above monitoring requirements.
J. Port Efficiency Indicators
3.20      For optimizing the utilization of port resources and for taking
timely action for improving port operations, CPA should compute each quarter
operating efficiency indicators relating to: (i) cargo handling rates for
the main categories of cargo viz. break-bulk, unitized, dry bulk, containers
and liquid bulk; (ii) dwell time of cargo in port; (iii) ship turnaround
time; (iv) ship waiting time, and (v) berth occupancy. This will require
systematic collection of data for each ship from its arrival till departure,
and recording them in a manner suitable for easy derivation of the above
indicators. The data to be collected and the efficiency indicators which
should be used as targets to be achieved are shown in Annex 1. During nego-
tiations agreement was reached that CPA would start computing the efficiency
indicators not later than January 1, 1983 and use its best efforts to equal
or better the targets referred to above, by June 1, 1984.



-26-
K. Environmental Impact
3.21      No significant adverse environmental impact is expected in the port
or the city of Chittagong due to the proposed project, since no handling of
any dirty or dusty cargo is envisaged. It is not expected that the container
movement would adversely affect the traffic conditions in the city, as the
transfer of full containers destined for Dacca area would be largely handled
by inland waterways and railway, and the remainder choosing to move by road
would be able to by-pass the city.
L. Uncertainties in the Project
3.22      Although experience of other ports in the region strongly points to
a rapid rise in container traffic, it is conceivable, though not probable,
that at Chittagong the growth might not materialize as expected or may even
be reversed. In the unlikely event of such a development, the signs of the
unfavorable trend would be evident during the early period when the interim
container facility is in operation, and there would be sufficient time to
review the situation and to postpone or cancel the procurement of the con-
tainer handling equipment for MPBs and acquire instead equipment suitable for
general cargo, for which the new berths would then be used. The lay-out of
the back-up facilities is flexible enough to make it possible to effect such
change over. During negotiations agreement was reached that before inviting
bids for MPB equipment, CPA would review the prospects for container traffic
development and decide in consultation with the Association, on what equip-
ment to acquire for the MPBs.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Traffic Forecasts
4.01      In recent times, the volume of traffic handled at Chittagong Port
has been characterized by significant variability from one year to the next
(Table 4), reflecting mainly the volatility of bulk imports. In particular,
the volume of foodgrain imports has ranged from roughly one-fourth to
one-half of total dry cargo tonnage, depending on the relative success or
failure of domestic foodgrain harvests. Other important, and somewhat vari-
able, bulk imports are fertilizer, cement clinker and coal. General cargo
constitutes about one-third of dry cargo tonnage and has been relatively
stable in recent years.



-27-
4.02      Traffic forecasts for the period 1981/82-95/96 (Table 4) have been
estimated on the basis of commodity-wise analyses, described in the project
file, whereunder import and export traffic volumes reflect differences
between domestic production and consumption. Domestic consumption estimates
take into account the growth of GDP and population, while domestic production
estimates reflect future output levels in the relevant subsectors. In par-
ticular, foodgrain and fertilizer import projections have been estimated
within the framework of GOB's MTFPP. Given the operational constraints of
the Port of Chalna (para 1.11), the Chittagong Port's share of imports and
exports has been conservatively assumed to remain constant over the period
under consideration. The resulting average growth rate for dry cargo traffic
over the period 1981/82-1995/96 is about 3.7% per annum, which is conserva-
tive when compared with a likely GDP growth rate of 4-5% per annum.
4.03      Ships calling at the port of Chittagong are beginning to bring in
some container traffic, in amounts currently estimated at about 15,000 tons
per year. Although future levels of container traffic will depend, among
other things, on the provision by CPA of suitable container handling
facilities, the experience of other ports in the region indicates that, even
in the absence of such facilities, container traffic is likely to increase
significantly. The reasons for such trend are, among others, the strong
resistance to and the high cost of handling break-bulk cargo in the ports of
developed nations. Taking into account the volume and containerizability of
cargo traded between Bangladesh and its industrialized partners, it is con-
servatively estimated that container traffic could grow to about 90,000 TEU
or 600,000 tons per year toward the end of this decade. 1/ In the interest
of Bangladesh's trade with developed countries, it is appropriate that the
country's premier port should prepare itself to meet the needs of container
traffic th.rough the provision of berths and equipment designed to be equally
suitable for handling general cargo and container traffic.
1/   A significant proportion of container traffic will be general cargo,
which has been one of the least volatile traffic categories in recent
years. The growth path of container traffic is projected (in thousand
tons per annum) as 27 in 1981/82, 54 in 1982/83, 108 in 1983/84, 135
in 1984/85, 201 in 1985/86, 268 in 1986/87, 335 in 1987/88, 469 in
1988/89, and 600 in 1989/90 and thereafter. The average load per con-
tainer handled at the port would be 6.7 tons. Estimated container
traffic of 600,000 tons in 1989/90 would be equivalent to about 20% of
all dry cargo tonnage not not handled at specialized bulk berths; this
is a conservative projection, since preliminary estimates suggest that
up to 1,500,000 tons of dry cargo would be containerizable annually by
1990.



-28-
B. Port Capacity Considerations
4.04      At present, port capacity is limited by several factors, including
the number of berths, the persistently low cargo handling rates and the
inadequate rules for traffic allocation between GCBs and specialized bulk
jetties. If effective port capacity is to increase to meet future traffic
levels, CPA will have to improve cargo handling rates and/or construct of
additional berths. In so far as increases in handling rates are concerned,
various physical and institutional changes may be considered by CPA, includ-
ing the procurement of handling equipment for general cargo and containers,
the institution of labor training programs, speeding up of cargo clearance,
and improvement of work shift patterns. The effect on port capacity of
increases in handling rates courses of action is shown in Table 13 and
Chart 2.
4.05      It is estimated that, if cargo handling rates remain constant at
their present low levels, there would be a dramatic increase in berth day
requirements to handle future traffic. Even if the long ship waiting times
associated with a 90% occupancy are tolerated, as many as 27 berths (10 more
than today) would be required in 1990/91; and, if an occupancy of 80% is to
be reached, about 31 berths (14 more than today) would be needed in the same
year. Assuming, however, that cargo handling rates will experience some
measure of improvement so as to avoid the construction of a large number of
additional berths, the following alternative scenarios are among the many
possible:
(a) If all target handling rates (para 4.07) except container
rates are achieved in 1993/94, it is estimated that 19
berths (2 more than today) would be required to handle
the 1990/91 traffic at 90% occupancy; alternatively,
21 berths (4 more than today) would be needed to lower
occupancy to 80%.
(b) If all target handling rates except container rates are
reached in 1987/88, only 17 berths would be required to
handle the 1990/91 traffic, but occupancy would remain
at a high 90%; alternatively, with 19 berths (2 more
than today) occupancy would be an acceptable 80% in the
same year, but this improvement would not last too long
and occupancy would rise to 94% in 1993/94 as a result
of tratfic increases.
(c) If in addition to reaching target rates by 1987/88,
container handling facilities and equipment are provided,
these items would have an overall effect similar to that
of two additional berths; in particular, congestion levels



-29-
would drop considerably, with occupancy remaining under
90% unitil 1994/95.
C. Economic Justification
4.06      The main economic benefits resulting from the project are a com-
bination of:
(a) reduced ship turnaround time, 1/ reflecting the fact
that the average ship waiting time at the outer anchorage
and the average ship time at berth will be lower with
the project than without it; and
(b) avoided construction of additional berths, which the
project will render unnecessary as higher handling rates
will increase the port's effective capacity.
4.07      The project's economic justification (Table 5) is predicated on the
following assumptions:
(a) cargo handling equipment, container facilities and labor
training provided under the project will result in a
steady increase in handling rates, which will reach the
following target levels by 1987/88: 500 tons of general
cargo, raw jute or jute goods per berth-day; 800 tons of
iron and steel products per berth-day; 1,200 tons of
tertilizer and cement per berth-day; 1,400 tons of foodgrain
1/   In order to estimate changes in ship turnaround time attributable to the
project, the GCBs/MPBs have been analyzed with the tools of queueing
theory. A model was formulated on the basis of generalized Erlang-k
(Gamma) probability distribution functions for ship interarrival times
and for ship time at berth; under this approach the GCBs/MPBs system is
parametrically defined by three variables only, namely k for interar-
rival times, k for berth times and the number of berths. The chosen
Erlang-k (Gamma) functions among other things, do not impose the con-
straint that the mean be equal to the standard deviation, and therefore
provide a more accurate representation of queueing phenomena than the
Poisson interarrival and random (negative exponential) service times.
The model was calibrated on the basis of available 1979/80 port statis-
tics, and subsequently applied to each year in the period under evalua-
tion. Since no closed mathematical formulae can be derived for the
computation of average waiting time under this model, an interpolation
method was used, which is described in the project file.



-30-
per berth-day; and 150 TEU of container traffic per berth-day
Agreement was reached during
negotiations (para 3.20) that the above target cargo handling
rates would be achieved by 1984/85, which is feasible, and
will result in even greater benefits to Bangladesh (para
4.09); concerning the without-project case, it is assumed
that CPA will find it necessary to effect institutional
changes and purchase some new and replacement equipment
over the next eight years, and as a result cargo handling
rates will increase slowly, reaching target levels in
1993/94, i.e. several years later than they would under
the project;
(b) if the project is not implemented, CPA would have to construct
additional berths to cater to increasing traffic, but only as
few as needed to keep the occupancy factor (traffic intensity)
around 90%, which is representative of the congestion level
prevailing in recent years, although a 90% occupancy reflects
unacceptable port operating conditions, it has been used to
characterize the without-project case so as to not overestimate
the benefits resulting from avoided berth construction; the
financial cost of each additional berth is US$12 million,
including a 56% foreign exchange component;
(c) a proportion of bulk traffic will be diverted away from GCBs
and onto existing specialized bulk handling facilities, thus
relieving GCBs from an additional burden, specifically,
agreement will be reached with CPA, the Food Ministry, BADC
and bulk jetty operators, that bulk facilities will handle up
to 800,000 tons of foodgrain and 250,000 tons of fertilizer
inputs annually, as well as the entire volume of coal and
cement clinker imports (para 2.29);
(d) the value of ship time is estimated at US$9,000 per ship day,
which reflects the ship mix currently calling at Chittagong,
and
(e) the shadow foreign exchange rate is 20% higher than the
official rate.
4.08      For the estimation of the economic rate of return (ERR), it has
been assumed that the full savings resulting from avoided ship days at the
outer anchorage may be attributed to the project, which reflects the fact
that avoided surcharges would be of the same order of magnitude as the cost
of avoided ship days of the outer anchorage, this is so regardless of what
fraction of such savings is actually captured by CPA by means of its tariff
structure. On the other hand, only 25% of the savings resulting from avoided
ship days at berth has been included as a project benefit, because such



-31-
savings would only accrue fully to the country in the case of Bangladeshi
vessels (15% of total traffic) and in the case of foreign chartered vessels
(10% of total traffic) which operate in a competitive environment and are
likely to pass the bulk of cost reductions on to shippers. Finally, the
avoided cost of additional berth construction has also been included in the
benefit side. The savings from reduced cost of cargo handling have not been
included. The resulting base ERR is 23% and, as an indication of the
project's timeliness, the estimated first-year ERR is about 17%.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
4.09      To account for the effect of possible departures from the assump-
tions used in the base case, economic rates of return have also been
estimated for the situations summarized below:
Base case                                         23%
If only 70% ot avoided ship waiting
time of outer anchorage is attributed
to the project as a benefit                       15%
If costs are 15% higher                           18%
If benefits are 15% lower                         17%
If costs are 15% higher and benetits
are 15% lower                                     12%
If the materialization of benefits is
delayed by two years                              13%
If target cargo handling rates are
reached by 1984/85                                37%
4.10      The main fact brought out by the sensitivity analysis is that
either a two-year implementation delay or a 15%-cost-increase-cum-
15%-benefit-reduction would result in about a 13-point reduction in the
project's ERR. Conversely, if CPA takes ali the steps required to reach
the target cargo handling rates by 1984/85, this would produce an increase
of about 10 points in ERR.
4.11      The risks associated with this project are not expected to be
greater than those found in similar projects. The main risks would be
related to changes in the country's economy, particularly in food production
and balance-of-payments performance, which could have a depressing effect on
traffic volumes through the port of Chittagong. In this respect, however, it



-32-
is estimated that reductions, even large, in the volumes of foodgrain, fer-
tilizer, coal, cement and POL traffic would have a negligible effect on the
project, since those items will be handled almost exclusively at specialized
tacilities (para 2.29). A reduction in the level of general cargo would have
some effect on the project but it is unlikely that general cargo volumes
would grow at a much slower pace than has been conservatively assumed. Con-
tainer traffic forecasts have also been made on conservative assumptions
(para 4.03); in the unlikely event of container traffic volumes are much
lower than forecast, there would be sufficient time to revise, postpone or
drop the proposed procurement of container handling equipment (para 3.22).
V. FINANCE AND EARNINGS
A. Introduction
5.01      CPA is a financially autonomous corporate entity.  The principal
activities of the accounting and finance department are: (i) preparation of
bills related to vessels; (ii) preparation and maintenance of accounting
records; (iii) preparation of budgets in respect of operational and capital
receipts and expenditure; and (iv) preparation of interim financial reports
and annual financial statements. To perform its functions, the department is
organized in to two main sections, namely, accounting and finance and inter-
nal audit. CPA follows accrual principles of accounting. All handling of
cash transactions has been transferred to local banks. CPA is exempt from
paying income taxes.
5.02      In the past CPA has taken prompt action to request needed tariffs
and GOB has granted tariff increases to match increased cost of inputs. The
financial surpluses from its operations have enabled CPA to pay all its debt
service and make substantial contribution to development expenditure. The
large surpluses are appropriated to various funds.
B. Improvements in Accounting System
5.03      Several studies have been conducted in recent years (EWP/Price
Waterhouse 1981; NEI 1978; Louis Berger 1974 and others) which have included
assessments of CPA's accounts and finances. Those reports have made
criticisms regarding lack of a proper register of fixed assets and their
valuation, worthless receivables and payables (including loans), doubtful
debts, obsolete stocks, slow preparation of accounts, lack of proper audit-
ing, poor management and budgetary control and tariffs being unrelated to the
costs of providing the several services to vessels and cargoes, because
accounts are not prepared in a way which facilitates ascertainment of costs.



-33-
CPA has responded by making some improvements such as revising the deprecia-
tion categories and rates, speeding up presentation of accounts, appointment
of professional auditors, making changes in budgetary control procedures,
making a start with machine accounting and creating a new post for developing
rates having special responsibility for tariffs and costs.
5.04      Although the pace of progress has been steady, further improvements
are needed. Under IDA's Technical Assistance Credit 872-BD an accounting
and financial services and tariff structure study - Phase I (referred to in
this report as Accounting and Tariff study) was completed in April 1981. The
consultants have recommended that: (i) CPA's accounting system be modified
and adapted in order that revenues by service could be identified and matched
with cost of providing the related service (cost accounting); (ii) CPA's
tariff structure be simplified and rate levels established to reflect the
cost of service provided; and (iii) training be provided to staff. Under
Phase II of the Accounting and Tariff study, the consultants will assist CPA
in the implementation of these recommendations. Specifically fixed asset
register will be created, fixed assets will be revalued and a system for
periodic updating will be provided, accounting improvements including
write-off of obsolete and worthless items both on asset and liability side of
the balance sheet will be accomplished, and cost accounting system imple-
mented for instituting cost based tariffs. In developing tariff rates,
consultants will give due attention to marginal cost pricing concepts and
provide on the job training to CPA staff who will later constitute CPA's
costing cell.
5.05      It is expected that two years will be required to achieve full
implementation which is expected to start in May 1982. During negotiations
agreement was reached with CPA/GOB on a timetable with target dates for
completion of the Phase II study and for the revision of tariffs and improve-
ment of the accounting system in consultation with IDA.
C. Budgets and Audits
5.06      CPA must submit an annual budget to the Government for approval
which includes the revenue, current expenditure and capital expenditure
estimates. Once approved by GOB it forms the financial plan for the ensuing
year. The budgeting process begins in January, six months in advance of the
start of the ensuing fiscal year (July 1) and ends with GOB approval
generally by end May. Annual budget is prepared on the basis of six months
actual results of the current year. Budget also shows capital expenditure
to be financed from port funds and non-port funds. For capital expenditure
financed with non-port funds the approval of the Planning Commission is
required (ADP - Annual Development Plan). CPA's financial planning which is
now limited to one year and needs to be improved to cover a period of five
years (para 2.11).



-34-
5.07      Budgetary control is not sophisticated but it is effective due to
the application of a rigid pre-audit system which disallows any expenditures
outside the approved budget. Until recently, any expenditure over Taka 100
had to be approved by the Chairman. Recently this has been changed and
new reasonable level of expenditures can be authorized and approved by
departmental officers without reference to the Chairman. Annual budget
preparation is satisfactory.
5.08      CPA maintains a competent internal audit department comprising
seventy-seven staff members who conduct financial, operational and management
audits of a satisfactory professional standard. The useful role played by
the internal audit in protecting port assets would be enhanced if it reported
to the highest level of executive authority instead of to the Member Finance,
as at present. Agreement was reached during negotiations that by October 1,
1982, CPA would implement a plan of action satisfactory to IDA for arranging
that its internal audit would report directly to the Chairman.
5.09      CPA Ordinance (1976) requires that accounts of the port authority
be audited by at least two firms of chartered accountants and a joint audit
report is issued. Auditors are now appointed for a term of three years as
compared to previous practice of annual appointments. This change will
provide continuity and it is hoped that it would enhance overall quality of
audit reports. The audit reports are generally thorough and are satisfactory
to IDA. In addition, the Auditor General of GOB also conducts audits of CPA
accounts, but his reports are behind in their coverage. During negotiations
agreement was reached that CPA would furnish audited statements and audit
reports to the Association within six months after the end of each fiscal
year. However, for FY83 and FY84 when the implementation of the accounting
improvements would be in progress, a longer time of nine months would be
allowed for this purpose. Also assurances were received from CPA that neces-
sary corrective action will be taken on deficiencies pointed out in the audit
reports.
D. Tariffs
5.10      CPA's tariff structure dates back from early years of Chittagong
Port Trust. The tariffs are not cost based and follow the colonial pattern
in that charges against vessels are low and those against cargo are high.
The structure is complex and time consuming to administer, and covers a wide
range of services. The aim of CPA in setting tariff charges is to generate
sufficient revenues to cover full cost of services provided. Even though
this practice has enabled CPA to generate sufficient surpluses, the tariff
increases over the years have not been based on costing individuai services,
but probably influenced by overall increase in costs. Tarift rates at
Chittagong are generally considered low and are also low in comparison to
those of other ports in the region especially in respect of the vessel
charges.



-35-
5.11      Since all port charges are payable in Taka, the shipping lines, the
majority of whom are foreign have been reaping benefits from the decline in
the value of Taka which has fallen from US$0.132 in 1973 to US$0.055 in 1981.
To avoid erosion of CPA's revenue from vessels due to adverse changes in
exchange rate, agreement was reached at negotiations that vessel charges will
be linked to a major convertible currency.
5.12      Several revisions of CPA tariffs (1975, 76, 78 and '80) have been
made since the formation of Bangladesh in 1971, and periodic tariff increases
have averaged about 20% p.a. over the period FY77 to FY81. The charges on
vessels have been increased at a higher percentage rate than those on cargo.
The average revenue from cargo (excluding that on storage) grew by about 28%
p.a. between FY77 and FY81 whereas during the same period the average revenue
from charges against vessels increased by about 44% p.a. Thus charges on
vessels now constitute about 28% of total revenue compared to some 20% pre-
viously. The structure and rate level of tariffs will be further improved
when recommendations of the accounting and tariff study are implemented (para
5.04).
E. Past Performance
5.13      CPA's actual revenue and expenditure accounts for the period FY77
to FY81 are summarized below and detailed in Table 6. The balance sheets for
the corresponding period are shown in Table 7.
Account Head                          Actual Revenue and Expenditure   Annual
(in current Taka million)        Growth
1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 rate %
Total Revenues                  129.5   167.4   261.3   344.4   395.3   32.2
Total Working Expenses           65.9    89.2   114.7   159.0   207.8   33.2
Depreciation                     10.5      9.4    17.8    36.4    42.2   41.6
Total Operating Expenses         76.4    98.6   132.5   195.4   250.0   34.5
Operating Revenues               53.1    68.8   128.8   149.0   145.3   28.6
Interest Charges                 14.0      9.5      9.2     6.8      6.1  (18.8)*
Total Expenses                   90.4   108.1   141.7   202.2   256.1   29.7
Net Revenues                     39.1    59.3   119.6   142.2   139.2   37.4
Operating Ratio a/               59.0    58.9    50.7    56.7    63.2
*   Indicates reduction.
a/ Total operating expenses as a percentage of total revenue.
5.14      CPA has been able to generate large surpluses over the years, and
the revenues by FY81 have registered an increase of about 200% over those of



-36-
FY77. The revenue increases were mainly attributable to tariff and traffic
increases (12% p.a. during FY77 to FY81). CPA had its best results in FY80
handling a record high of 6.2 million tons of cargo which resulted in gener-
ation of the largest surplus of Taka 142.2 million.
5.15       Growth rates of some key cost items during FY77 to FY81 are shown
in Table 8. Total expenses have grown at an average rate of about 29.7% p.a.
Staff and labor, repairs and maintenance and administration which constitute
about 4U%, 50% and 10% of the total working expenses have shown average
annual increases of 36%, 30% and 32%, respectively. This has resulted in the
total working expenses showing an average increase of 33.2% p.a. in current
prices. The increases are partly attributable to factors outside CPA's
control, such as inflation which has averaged about 12% p.a. over the four
year period; salary increases authorized by GOB in 1978 with retroactive
adjustment; and large increases in the prices of fuel (which accounts for
25% of CPA's bills for repairs and maintenance). On the other hand, staff
strength has increased by about 1.7% p.a. and CPA's management has been
generous in granting staff benefits and allowances and paying higher rates
for handling contracts. The justification for increases provided by CPA was
that during the period immediately following the war of independence very
little had been done to keep up with the rising costs and a lot of catching
up had to be done during the period FY77 to FY81. It is expected that a
general slowing down in the growth rate of the cost of inputs would be
experienced in the coming years and this has been reflected in financial
projections. Except for the staff costs, the other reported working costs
are low as shown by the working ratios during the period (Table 6).
5.16      Up to FY78 the depreciation charge was very low.  However, in FY79
CPA changed its practice, which resulted in substantial increase in the
depreciation charge for FY79 and subsequent years. The change involved
broadening of rate categories and increase in depreciation rates. It rose
from Tk 10.5 million in FY77 to Tk 42.2 million in FY81. This increase
though may be less than what is required on a replacement cost basis, none-
theless has contributed to a small rise in the operating ratio from 59% in
FY77 to 63.2% in FY81, which is still favorable.
5.17      The financial position of CPA has consistently been sound.  CPA's
balance sheet for FY81 shows a large amount in the investment account of Tk
575.3 million which have resulted from earnings accumulated over the years
by appropriation of surpluses into a number of reserve funds. These invest-
ments which are entirely in the form of interest bearing bank deposits con-
stitute about 30% of the total non-current assets of CPA and interest income
earned on these amounted to Tk 31 million in FY81. The interest income
earned on investments is included in respective funds. As these investments
earned an average interest rate of about 9%, which was lower than the average
inflation rate of about 12% during the last few years, CPA would have fared
better if the funds were used for development works instead of investing them
in a bank account and allowing them to deplete in value. However, CPA could



-37-
not take up such works as it had no access to foreign exchange. The cash
reserves would contribute substantially to the local cost of the proposed
project. Currently with rise in interest rates in Bangladesh the port has
been earning an interest rate on its investments of about 12% on its
deposits. CPA's debt/equity ratios have been consistently very favorable
(Table 7). CPA has taken positive steps on the liability side of the balance
sheet in that foreign loans are in FY81 reflected at the current exchange
rate rather than the very old rate which was in use previously which resulted
in understatement of the true liability.
F. Future Prospects
5.18      Table 9 shows forecast revenue and expenditure accounts of CPA for
the years FY82 to FY88 so as to cover project implementation period and one
year of operation of the MPBs. The assumptions used for the financial
projections are detailed in Annex 2. In conformity with the practice fol-
lowed by CPA, the projections do not provide for capitalization of interest
during construction period. The projections are summarized below:
during 1st year
Forecast Revenues and Expenditure of CPA           Operation
 ------during project implementation period---------   of MPBs
Annual
(in current Taka million)    Growth
1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 Rate %  1987/88
Total Revenues            444.0   534.4   598.,8   706.2   833.3   982.6   17.2   1,300.0
Total Working Expenses   251.2   303.9   368.3   447.2   543.6   661.6   21.4           844.6
Depreciation               43.2    51.8    57.0    62.7    69.0    76.0   12.0          213.0
Total Operating Expenses 294.4   355.7   425.3   509.9   612.6   737.6   20.2   1,057.6
Operating Revenues         149.6   178.7   173.5   196.3   220.7   245.0   10.3         242.4
Interest Charges             5.8    32.3    86.1   132.8   176.7   201.8  103.4         200.0
Total Expenses            300.2   388.0   511.4   642.7   789.3   939.4   25.6   1,257.6
Net Revenues               143.8   146.4    87.4    63.5    44.0    43.2  (21.4)*    42.4
Operating Ratio a/          66.3    66.6    71.0    72.2    73.5    75.0                 81.3
*   Indicates reduction.
a/  Total operating expenses as a percentage of total revenue.
5.19      Operating revenues are based on CPA's revised estimates for FY51.
Future revenues have been projected on the conservative assumption that CPA's
traffic will increase by about 3% p.a. and is in line with traffic forecasts
(Table 4). A 25% tariff increase has been proposed by CPA in July 1981.
That such tariff increase shall have been approved by GOB and made effective
by CPA would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The revenue projections



-38-
reflect the 25% increase for FY83 and thereafter a tariff increase of 15%
p.a. for the period FY84 to FY87 and 30% for FY88. Under these conditions
revenues would more than double between FY82 to FY87 showing a growth rate of
about 17.2% p.a. The tariff increases assumed reflect the minimum required
for CPA to generate sufficient funds to meet all its commitment including 40%
of its annual capital investment. The future tariff increase seems
reasonable when compared with the increases in the preceding years. The
larger increase in FY88 could be reasonably collected through higher charges
against vessels using the new berths as they would benefit from faster tur-
naround time. During negotiations, agreement was reached with CPA/GOB that
the tariffs will be revised from time to time as necessary in order for CPA
to generate sufficient funds to cover all its cash operating and maintenance
expenses and debt service charges and contribute not less than 40% toward the
annual average capital expenditures.
5.20      Expenses for the period FY82 to FY87 have been projected using
current prices. Staff and labor cost are expected to increase by 15% p.a.,
maintenance and repair cost to experience an increase of 25% p.a. and
administrative costs to register an increase of 20% p.a. Total working
expenses indicate a growth rate of 21.4% p.a. The depreciation charge is
expected to increase from Taka 43.2 million in FY82 to Taka 76 million in
FY87 and interest charges show a dramatic increase (103% p.a. over the period
FY82 to FY87) because of the necessary borrowing for the proposed project
(Taka 1,350 million) from GOB, at an assumed rate of 14.0% per annum. Thus
total expenses are expected to show an increase of 25.6% p.a. The operating
ratio would increase from 66.3% in FY82 to 75% in FY87 which is still
favorable. The reason for the increase is because the tariff increases
projected are relatively lower than the expected increases in expenses.
5.21      Forecast balance sheets for the period FY82 to FY88 are shown in
Table 10. The financial projections have assumed that IDA Credit would be
US$60 million equivalent and that CPA reserves (USA35 m) and GOB's contribu-
tion (US$15 m) would cover the local cost of capital expenditures. It is
also assumed that the proceeds of the Credit would be relent to CPA at 14.0%
p.a. (which is in line with the current industrial lending rate and is
estimated to be positive over the loan period) with a repayment period of 20
years including 4 years of grace, and that the foreign exchange risk would be
assumed by CPA. These terms of lending were agreed at negotiations (para
3.10). As the proposed project is implemented, the debt/equity ratio is
expected to increase from 18:82 in FY82 to about 48:52 in FY87. Despite this
change the forecast balance sheets indicate a strong financial position for
CPA from liquidity and capital structure standpoint.
5.22      Financial forecasts are most likely to be affected by variation
in operating costs and accordingly sensitivity analysis was performed by
increasing these costs by 10% which indicates that the tarift increases
required would go up from 15% to 18% p.a. A reduction of 10% in costs would



-39-
bring down the required tariff adjustment to 12% p.a. These tariff adjust-
ments would enable CPA to meet the cash generation requirements as outlined
in para 5.19.
G. Financial Resources
5.23      The investment program proposed for the six-year period 1981/82
- 1986/87 is shown in Table 11. The period 1981/82 - 1984/85 covers the last
four years of the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) and the two years 1985/86 and
1986/87 will form part of the Third Five-Year Plan which is under considera-
tion by GOB. The proposed investment program has been approved by CPA.
Initially it included a provision for future dredging for maintaining a
deeper access channel, which has been deleted. The reasons are that there is
uncertainty with respect to future maintenance dredging due to its dependence
on the results of current trial dredging. Also, because of the need for
substantial amount of foreign exchange to undertake this dredging, it is
considered appropriate that it should be included in the investment plan only
after the prospects of its technical, economic and financial viability are
more clearly indicated. The impact of its inclusion would be higher tariffs
to generate additional funds to recover the investment costs.
5.24      Proposed spending for the five-year period 1982/83 - 1986/87 during
which the proposed project is to be executed amounts to about Tk 2,628 mil-
lion (in current Taka) and this amount has been used in the financial
forecasts. Of this, the proposed project amounts to Tk 1,980 million, or
about 75% of the total investment program for the period. The balance of
Tk 648 million is considered reasonable for normal capital works and replace-
ments to be undertaken by CPA during the same period. The bulk of the
foreign exchange required (40% of the total investment program) is for the
proposed project and will be covered by the proposed IDA credit. Small
amounts of foreign exchange required for other items will be provided by GOB
or through bilateral arrangements. The proposed investment program is ade-
quate and is reasonable considering the financial resources of the port. It
meets CPA's most critical needs which are for handling containers and main-
taining normal capital expenditures for handling of general cargo. Agreement
was reached at negotiations with CPA on the investment plan for the period
1982/83-86/87, outside of which CPA will not make any investments in excess
of US$2 million equivalent in any fiscal year without prior consultation with
IDA.
5.25      The forecast source and application of funds statement in Table 12
shows that cash generation will be sufficient to meet CPA's requirements.
During the period FY83 to FY87, in which proceeds of the proposed credit will
be utilized, the funds required by CPA and the anticipated sources of such
funds are summarized as follows:



-40-
Taka
million   US$ million    %
Sources of funds:
For Investment Program
CPA internal cash generation    1,276           71          43
IDA Credit                        1,080         60         36
GOB loan                            612         34         21
Sources of Funds - Total          2,968        165        100
Required Funds
Capital Expenditure               2,628        146          88
Loan Repayment                      109          6           4
Change in Working Capital           231         13           8
Required Funds - Total            2,968        165         100
5.26      CPA would be able to generate about 43% of its total investment
requirements out of internally generated funds.  The balance would be met
with funds provided by IDA and GOB which would also cover immediate foreign
exchange expenditures.  During negotiations, it was agreed that CPA will
incur additional debt only if debt service payments, including that on the
relending of the proposed IDA Credit and on any new loans or credits obtained
by or made available to CPA, are covered 1.5 times by CPA's cash generation
from operations.
5.27      Having regard to the satisfactory level of all financial indicators
(working, operating and debt/equity ratios) as reflected in the financial
projections, the modest tariff increases required under the revenue covenant
and the past Government action in approving tariffs, it is considered that
the risks of failure to achieve forecast financial results are small. The
proposed project is financially feasible and CPA's financial position will
continue to be sound.
H. Financial Aspects of Container Facilities
5.28      At present CPA does not have a separate tariff for its container
traffic. Under the accounting and tariff study Phase II (para 5.05), the
consultants will propose a rate structure for the interim period until the
MPB's are completed. Also they will identify cost elements to be included in
developing rates for container handling when facilities are completed. The
broad objectives in setting tariffs would be to generate revenues sufficient
to meet (i) cost of providing the services; (ii) the need for normal replace-
ments and renewals of assets; and (iii) reasonable internal generation of
resources to finance future programs. A fund analysis made by Maunsell
consultants indicates that based on 70% ot utilization of the container
facilities and providing for full cost recovery including a return on equity



-41-
of 12% p.a., the total gross charge per container would be about US$200
(distributed through tariff in general) or US$20 per ton. The proposed rate
is lower than current charges in ports in the developed countries, but
slightly higher than in some ports in the region.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following.
a) With GOB:
i) Import of fertilizer at Chittagong to be in bulk to the
extent possible and bagging to be done locally (para 2.18);
ii)  Release to CPA ot adequate amount of foreign exchange
for spares on a regular basis (para 2.19);
iii) Ali grain imports at Chittagong would be handled at the Grain
Silo Jetty unless the imports exceed 800,000 tons per year
or are subjected to severe bunching of vessels; and all cement
clinker and fertilizer raw materials would be wholly
handled at the CCJ and TSP jetties, respectively
(para 2.29); and
iv)  Proceeds of the Credit would be onlent to CPA under a
subsidiary loan agreement on terms satisfactory to IDA
(paras 3.10 and 5.21).
b) With CPA:
i) Making a careful assessment of the manpower requirements in
the different categories of staff and by December 1983,
implementing a program satisfactory to IDA for correcting
imbalances (para 2.09);
ii)  CPA to reorganize its Planning Cell in a manner satisfactory
to IDA by January 1, 1983 (para 2.12);
iii) Extending the palletization scheme to more berths and adopting
a phased program for reducing railway movements and tracks in
the port area (para 2.18);
iv)  Use of private workshops for major overhaul/renewal of cargo
handling equipment (para 2.19);



-42-
v) completing necessary improvements to the port's electrical
network by December 31, 1983 (para 2.19),
vi) Adoption of revised system of workshift for dock workers
and CPA staff by December 1, 1982 (para 2.21),
vii)  Examination of the possibility of further reduction in
the number of licensed contractors and of adopting measures
to improve their cargo handling performance (para 2.22);
viii) Development and implementation, by June 30, 1982, of a plan of
action acceptable to the Association to bring down the
dwell time of cargo to less than 25 days (para 2.23);
ix) Implementation by June 30, 1983 of organizational changes
in the operations and maintenance departments and placing
of the maintenance of cargo handling equipment separately
in the charge of a senior official, in a manner satisfactory
to IDA (para 2.24);
x) Organizing by November 1, 1982 a training program satisfactory
to IDA and arranging for a sufficient number of equipment
operators to be trained by April 1, 1983 (para 2.25);
xi) Composition and the terms of reference of the recently
constituted Container Development Committee would be
reviewed in consultation with IDA (para 3.02),
xii)  Project implementation program (para 3.11);
xiii) Consultants, whose qualifications and experience, terms of
reference and terms of appointment would be satifactory to
IDA would be appointed for detailed engineering, preparation
of bid documents and for supervision of contracts and the
principles and procedures of such appointments would be
in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines (August
1981) (para 3.13);
xiv)  Compliance with monitoring requirements (para 3.19),
xv) Computation and use of efficiency indicators to begin by
January 1, 1983; and cargo handling rate targets to be
achieved by June 1, 1984 (para 3.20);
xvi)  Before inviting bids for container equipment for use at the
MPBs, CPA would review prospects of container traffic
developments and decide in consultation with IDA as to what
equipment to acquire (para 3.22);



-43-
xvii) Timetable for the completion of the accounting and tariff
study (Phase II), and for the revision of tariff proposals
and improvement of the accounting system (para 5.05);
xviii) By October 1, 1982, CPA will implement a plan of action
satisfactory to IDA for arranging that Internal Audit
will report to the Chairman of CPA (para 5.08);
xix) Audited accounts and audit reports to be furnished to the
Association within six months after the end of each fiscal
year; for FY83 and and FY84, however, a longer period of
nine months would be allowed for this purpose: CPA to
take corrective action on points mentioned in audit
reports (para 5.09),
xx) Tariff for services to vessels would be linked to a major
convertible currency (para 5.11);
xxi) CPA to revise tariffs from time to time so as to generate
sufficient funds to cover all its cash operating and
maintenance expenses and including debt service charges
and contribute not less than 40% toward the annual capital
expenditures (para 5.19);
xxii) Investment Plan to be followed by CPA for the period 1982/83
to 1986/87, and the condition that CPA would not make any
investment in excess of US$2.0 million on items outside the
plan without prior consultation with IDA (para 5.24); and
xxiii) No new debts (other than those relating to the proposed project)
would be incurred by CPA unless the debt service payments on
the current and new borrowing are covered 1.5 times by the cash
generated by CPA's operations (para 5.26).
6.02       It is recommended that conditions of effectiveness for the
proposed credit should be:
(i) Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement (para 3.10);
(ii) Appointment of the key members of the PIU, whose
qualifications and experience would be satisfactory
to IDA (para 3.12);
(iii) CPA's obtaining vacant possession of all land abutting
the MPB site (para 3.14);



-44-
(iv) GOB approval of Project Proforma (para 3.14);
(v) Tariff increase of 25% to be approved by GOB and made
effective by CPA (para 5.19).
6.03      Based on the agreement reached on the matters indicated above, the
proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$60.0
million equivalent to the Government of Bangladesh.



_ 45 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
PORT EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
I. Data to be Collected
1.      In order that Port Efficiency Indicators may be computed on a regular
basis, the following important data should be collected.
a) For each ship serviced at the port:
i) date and time of arrival in port;
ii) name, dead weight tonnage, length and draft on arrival of ship;
iii) date and time of start and end of lighterage operations (if any);
iv) date and time of arrival at berth and name of berth assigned;
v) date and time of departure from berth;
vi) periods when ship is idle at berth and reasons therefore;
vii) tonnage and category of cargo discharged and loaded;
viii) number of gangs and number of men in each gang employed in each
shift;
ix) number of shifts and overtime worked;
x) type, number and shifts of cargo handling equipment requested;
xi) type, number and shifts of cargo handling equipment was available.
b)  For each transit shed and open storage area:
i) tons of cargo cleared within free period;
ii) tons of cargo remaining uncleared for more than 2 ,4 and 8
weeks;
iii) No. of containers (TEUs) cleared within free period;
iv) No. of containers (TEUs) (full) remaining uncleared for more
than 2, 4 and 8 weeks;



-46 -                                 ANNEX 1
Page 2
v) No. of containers (TEUs) (empty) remaining uncleared for more
than 2, 4 and 8 weeks.
2.      From the above data, the following indicators should be derived each
quarter and compared with the targets shown in the last column below:
Target
(to be achieved
by June 1984)
a)  Throughput per ship        Total tonnage handled
per day (of 2 shifts)    divided by number of days
at CPA berth
Break-bulk general cargo    500 T/ship day
Palletized general cargo    700 T/ship day
Bagged cargo                  1,200 T/ship day
Iron and Steel.               800 T/ship day
Fertilizer                    1,200 T/ship day
Grain                         1,400 T/ship day
Containers                    150 nos/ship day
b)  Productivity               Total tonnage handled
Tons per net gang hour   divided by total gang time
(including overtime) less
stoppages not attributed to
the gang (e.g. weather,cargo/
equipment not available etc.)
Break-bulk general cargo       15 tons/gang/hr
Bagged cargo, fertilizer,    25 tons/gang/hr
grain                          30 tons/gang/hr
Containers                     12 nos/gang/hr
not more than:
c)  Average Dwell Time         Ton-days of cargo in           25 days for general cargo
storage beyond free            15 days for full containers
period divided by total        25 days for empty containers
tonnage stored
d)  Equipment Availability   Equipment hours supplied
divided by equipment hours
requested                      70%



- 47 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 3
e)  Waiting Time              Total time between arrival
(hours/ship)              and berthing of all ships
divided by number of ships
berthed
f)  Service Time              Total time at berth of all
(hours/ship)              ships divided by number of
ships



ANNEX 2
-    -                            Page  I
BANGLADESHi
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
Assumptions Made in Preparing Financial Forecasts
A.   General
The financial projections in current prices cover the period
1981/82-86/87 and account for increases in the traffic throughput and
assume some reduction in the growth rates ot working expenses.
B.   Revenue and Expenditure Forecasts (Table 9)
The base revenue figures consist of CPA's revised estimates for
fiscal year 1981 based on nine months actual operating results. There-
after the operating revenues are expected to be influenced by (i) an
average expected annual growth of about 3% which corresponds to a 15 years
average annual growth in the volume of traffic as shown in Table 4, and
(ii) minimum increases in the general tariff rates required to preserve a
healthy financial position of the port. The projected increase in the
containerized general cargo has not been treated separately since it is
assumed that such cargo will pay approximately the same charge as
non-containerized cargo.
Uniform tariff increases effective July 1 of each fiscal year have
been assumed across the board as follows:
Fiscal Year:       1983   1984   1985   1986   1987  1988
Tariff increase    25%    15%    15%    15%    15%   30%
With the exception of 25% increase in FY83, for which CPA has
requested GOB approval, the tariff adjustments used in the forecasts are
not proposals but rather indications of the order of magnitude of the
adjustments which will be required for CPA to maintain a reasonable finan-
cial position and meet all its financial commitments.
Maintenance and Repairs
These costs recorded an average growth of over 30% per annum
during FY77 to FY81. Main inputs to such a growth were fuel costs and
spares which increased at growth rates generally higher than the general
rate of inflation. In view of the anticipated stability of oil prices it
is assumed that costs of fuel and spares in future will be rising at much
lower rates. Thus a growth of 20% per annum in the cost of maintenance
and repairs, combined with the growth in the volume of traffic is assumed
to result in a composite average growth of 25% per annum. Cost of
materials is expected to grow at its historical record of about 25% per
annum.



- 49 -                                  ANNEX 2
Page 2
Administrative Costs
These have been assumed to grow at about 20% per annum which is
slightly lower than its historical growth.
Depreciation
Forecast figures were provided by CPA and were determined on the
straight line method using the following rates which have been in use by
CPA consistently in the recent past. The rates are (i) civil works
(2.5%); (ii) vessels and crafts (5%), (iii) plant and machinery (10%),
(iv) electrical installations (10%); and (v) vehicles and trailers (10%).
Since the fixed assets have not been revalued the depreciation charge may
be understated. The realistic values of depreciation will remain unavail-
able until Phase II of the accounting study is completed. Depreciation
based on historical cost is reflected in the forecasts. These estimates
should therefore be viewed as a very rough measure of what would be deter-
mined as a sufficient provision for depreciation.
Interest Charges
The interest charge on all monies provided by GOB to CPA were
assumed to be 14.0% per annum with repayment period of 20 years, including
four years of grace. The loan repayment is assumed to be in equal
installments starting July 1987.
C.   Balance Sheet Forecasts (Table 10)
It is assumed that since the new facilities, namely the multipur-
pose berths and their related machinery and equipment will not be opera-
tional until after 1986/87 when the project will be completed, all fixed
assets created during the implementation period with the exception of
renewals and replacements have been grouped under 'work in progress'.
Their transfer to the block fixed assets for depreciation purposes will
be made at the beginning of fiscal year 1988. Some of the old claims
which cannot be realistically collected are shown under "sundry advances",
"accounts receivable" and "accounts payable" headings. It is expected
that these items will be written off as recommended by the auditors.
Funds which are appropriated by CPA from gross surplus each year to
various funds and changes in the working capital have now been reflected
in one account as cash.



-50-                                         ANNEX 2
Page 3
D.   Capital Expenditure
The sources and applications of funds forecasts (Table 12) were
determined on the basis of the investment program shown in Table 11. The
flow of borrowed funds as well as withdrawals from own reserves as shown
in Table 12 were also based on the investment program.
E.   Financial Statement Presentation
The projected financial statements have been prepared by the
mission and the presentation has been modified from the format used by
CPA to conform to the more conventional way of presentation for clarity.



-     -                              ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESII
CHIITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. FeasibiliLy Study - Chittagong Port Development Project (September 1980):
Maunsell Consulants, Australia, Volumes 1 and 2
2. Economic and Financial Justification Study - Chittagong Port Development
Project (May 1980): Maunsell Consultants, Asutralia
3. Outline Equipment Specifications - Appendix B2, Volume 2 of Item 1 above
4. Outline Job Specifications - Appendix C - Volume 2 of Item 1 above
5. Outline Structure and Syllabuses of Training Courses - Appendix E4 of
Volume 2 of Item 1 above
6. Feasibility Study - Port of Chittagong (December 1974): Louis Berger
International Inc. Volumes 1 and 2
7. Chittagong Port Entrance Study (May 1978) - Netherlands Economic
Institute, Report and Annexes
8. Report on Accounting and Financial Services and Tariff Structure (April
1981): Maunsell Consultants in association with
EWP Associations and Price Waterhouse Associates
9. Worksheets: (i) Economic Analysis Sheets
(ii) Price Contingency Computation
(iii) Computer printouts of various Scenarios on financial
projections



BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Takas Million ---               ------  US $ Million ------
Item              Description                        Quantity                  Local        Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign      Total
A. Multipurpose Berths
Berth Structure                         15,300 m2                 198.90       255.60      454.50        11.05      14.20         25.25
2           Backup Facilities:
Reclamation and Pavement              150,000 m2                 81.00        27.00      108.00         4.50       1.50          6.00
Custom Wall                             1,530 m                   1.80          -          1.80         0.10        -            0.10
Patenga Road Relocation                   900 m                   3.24          -          3.24         0.18        -            0.18
Container Freight Station              13,650 m2                 32.76        14.04       46.80         1.82       0.78          2.60
Office and Other Buildings              4,320 m2                 17.10         8.64       25.74         0.95       0.48          1.43
Garage and Workshop                     1,800 m2                  8.10         3.96       12.06         0.45       0.22          0.67
Services and Utilities                     -                     56.34        28.26       84.60         3.13       1.57          4.70
200.34        81.90      282.24        11.13       4.55        15.68        
3           Container Handling Equipment:                                      24
Fork-lift Trucks - 30T                    3 nos.                 14.04        22.68       36.72         0.78       1.26          2.04
Fork-lift Trucks - 25T                    8 nos.                 27.36        37.44       64.80         1.52       2.08          3.60
Fork-lift Trucks -  ST                    8 nos.                  2.88         5.76        8.64         0.16       0.32          0.48
Fork-lift Trucks -  3T                   15 nos.                  5.40         8.10       13.50         0.30       0.45          0.75
Wharf Mobile Cranes 35T x 40m             2 nos.                 36.00        68.40      104.40         2.00       3.80          5.80
Tractor-trailer Units 30T                 8 nos.                  8.64        12.60       21.60         0.48       0.72          1.20
94.32       155.34      249.66         5.24       8.63        13.87
B. Cargo Handling Equipment
Interim Container Facilities
Rubber-tired Portal Cranes 35T            5 nos.                29.70        40.50         70.20        1.65        2.25         3.90
Tractor-trailer Units 30T                21 nos.                18.90        37.80         56.70        1.05       2.10          3.15
Fork-lift Trucks 30T                      3 nos.                14.04        22.68         36.72        0.78       1.26          2.04
62.64       100.98        163.62        3.48       5.61          9.09
2           General Cargo Berths
i) Additional Equipment
Fork-lift Trucks 3T                  31 nos.               11.16         16.74         27.90        0.62       0.93          1.55
Fork-lift Trucks 5T                   7 nos.                2.52          5.04          7.56        0.14       0.28          0.42
Tractors 25T                          8 nos.                4.32          8.64         12.96        0.24       0.48          0.72
Trailers 25T                        35 nos.                12.60        18.90          31.50        0.70       1.05         1.75
Mobile Crane lOT                      1 nos.                 1.44         3.06          4.50        0.08       0.17          0.25              g 
Mobile Crane 20T                      2 nos.                 3.60         7.20         10.80        0.20       0.40          0.60            @ 3
Mobile Crane 40T                      1 nos.                 2.34         4.86          7.20        0.13       0.27          0.40
37.98        64.44        102.42        2.11       3.58          5.69
3             ii) Replacement Equipment
Fork-lift Trucks 3T                  30 nos.               11.52        17.28          28.80        0.64       0.96         1.60
Tractors 6T                           8 nos.                 2.88         5.76          8.64        0.16       0.32          0.48
Trailers 6T                          16 nos.                2.86          5.76          8.64        0.16       0.32          0.48
Mobile Cranes lOT                     1 nos.                 1.44         3.06          4.50        0.08       0.17         0.25
Mobile Cranes 20T                     1 nos.                3.60          3.60          5.40        0.10       0.20          0.30
Mobile Cranes 40T                     1inos.                 2.34         4.86          7.20        0.13       0.27          0.40
Spares                                                     14.40        21.60          36.00        0.80       1.20         2.00
37.26        61.92         99.18        2.07       3.44          5.51
Carried Forward                                                  631.44       720.18       1,351.62      35.08      40.01         75.09



---    Takas Million -------          ------- US $ Million ------
Item              Description                       Quantity                  Local        Foreign       Total        Local      Foreign      Total
C. Maintenance Facilities
i) Central Workshops (1)
Building                                                   23.40       12.60        36.00           1.30       0.70         2.00
Equipment                                                   2.34        3.60          5.94          0.13       0.20         0.33
Ancillaries                                                 1.62        0.36         1.98           0.09       0.02         0.11
27.36       16.56        43.92          1.52       0.92         2.44
ii) Zonal Workshops (4)
Buildings                            4                      4.86        2.34         7.20           0.27       0.13         0.40
Equipment                                                   0.36        0.54         0.90           0.02       0.03         0.05
Ancillaries                                                 4.50        0.36         1.26           0.05       0.02         0.07
6.12        3.24         9.36          0.34       0.18         0.52
D. Training Institute
Alteration to Building                                           3.78        1.80         5.58          0.21       0.10         0.31
Equipment                                                        3.60        5.94         9.54          0.20       0.33         0.53            1
Ancillaries                                                      4.50        1.26         5.76          0.25       0.07         0.32
11.88        9.00        20.88          0.6        0.50         1.16
E. Technical Assistance and Training
Training Advisors                 204 m/m (108 m/m @ 10,000,
@ 96 m/m @ 3,000/-)                     24.66        24.66                     1.37          1.37
Overseas Fellowships              120 m/m @ 3,000/-                          6.48         6.48                     0.36         0.36
Container Operations Manual        12 m/m @ 10,000/-                         2.16         2.16                     0.12         0.12
Ports Management Information       12 m/m @ 10,000/-                         2.16         2.16                     0.12         0.12
System
35.46        35.46                     1.97          1.97
F. Engineering Services
i) 6% on Al - supervision                                                  27.18         27.18                     1.51         1.51
ii) 9% on A2, C and D - design
and supervision                                                        25.02        25.02                      1.39         1.39
iii) 2% on A3, B1, 2                                                          12.24        12.24                     0.68         0.68
64.44        64.44      -              3.58          3.58
G. Contingencies
I              Physical
i) 8% on Al and F (i)                                          20.16       18.36         38.52          1.12       1.02         2.14
ii) 20% on A2, C, D and F (ii)                                  34.20        43.02        77.22          1.90       2.39         4.29
54.36      61.38        115.74          3.02       3.41         6.43
2           Price
168.84      168.74       338.58          9.38       9.43        18.81
00 
Grand Total                                                      900.00   1,080.00    1,980.00           50.00      60.00       110.00            lmX
I-.



BANGLADESH
C5ITTAGOJ8G PORT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Fiscal Year                             1982                1983                       1984                     1985                          1986                       1987
Quarter                             III      IV    I    II    III    IV    I    II    III   IV            I    11    III   IV        I            IITIII   IV  I      IT    III    TV
X,,j,,j  ,.    -  il   i             -t                   l   I   I                       ~        ~~~LjI  ..
Credit Approval                              X         .
Credit Effectiveness                                   .
MPB - Berth Structure
Prequalify bidders                          X       .
Invite bids
Open bids                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
Award contract                                            t
Construction                                                    -  K -----  ----  _____       -----     ----   -----   -----  -----
MPB - Back-up Facilities
Detailed engineering                     Xi
Prequalify bidders
Invite bids                                               *
Award contract
Construction                                                                               x    -- -   -- -   ---- ----    -- - -- - -- - ---   - -- - -     -----------__   t  
MPB - Equipment                                        |-                                                                                               
Invite bids 
Open bids
Award contract                                                                                                                       $
Manu facture/delivery                                                                                                                              .______              i 
I.C.F. and GCB Equipment
Invite bids
Oen bids
Award contract
Manufacture/delivery                                                      ---- --------------------
Technical Assistance
Appoint Training                                   ii
Advisers                                      --------         |
Conduct courses                       ,                           -       ----------          ---- ----- ----------- j
Container Operations
Appoint expert                                            ----
Prepare Manual                                                   -----  ---
lort Management Information
Source: Ilission Estimate
October 1981



Table 3
- 55 -
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF CHITTAGONG PURT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
----- Disbursement in US$ 000 ----
IDA Fiscal Year
and Quarter Ending                 During Quarter             Cumulative
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                  300                        300
December 31, 1982                 1,000                      1,300
March 31, 1983                    1,500                      2,800
June 30, 1983                     2,000                      4,800
FY 1984
September 3U, 1983                 2,500                      7,300
December 31, 1983                  2,700                     10,000
March 31, 1984                     3,500                     13,500
June 3U, 1984                      3,800                     17,300
FY 1985
September 20, 1984                 4,200                     21,500
December 31, 1984                  4,500                     26,000
March 31, 1985                     4,700                     30,700
June 30, 1985                      4,300                     35,000
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                 4,100                     39,100
December 31, 1985                  4,000                     43,100
March 31, 1986                     3,700                     46,800
June 30, 1986                      3,500                     50,300
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                 3,000                     53,300
December 31, 1986                  2,500                     55,800
March 31, 1987                     2,000                     57,800
June 30, 1987                      1,200                     59,000
FY 1988
September 30, 1987                   500                     59,500
December 30, 1987                    500                     60,000
Source: Mission Estimate
October 1981



Chittagong Port Proect
Traffic Through Chittagong Peort (000 Tons)
1977/76 - 1995/96
---------------- Actual -----------------         ---------------------------------------------------------- Projection ------------------------------------------------------------
76/7     77/8      78/9      79/80      80/1      81/2     82/3      83/4      84/5      85/6      86/7      87/8     88/9      82990      908       91/2      92/3      93/4      94/5    95/6
Raw Jute and
Jute Goods          224        215       184       171       183       226       233       241       248       250      253       256       259       262        264       267       270       273       277      278
Foodgrain           552      1,287       884    2,044      1,021       900       800       700       600      600       600       600       600       600        600       600       600       600       600      600
Fertilizer           91        333       537       439       236       395       367       403       482      470       505       553       536       532        584       619       656       696       737      782
Cement               92         18       153       311       247       223       244       262       254      276       276       296       315       331        354       361       377       402       416      442
Cement
Clinker              21        239       175       245       182       220       230       240       250      250       255       260       265       270        270       270       270       270       270      270   0'
Coal                100        138        39      127        180       186       211       241       275      275       275       275       275       275        275       275       275       275       275      275
Iron and Steel
(inrl. pig iron)   96         224       227       270        330       358       38B      422       457       496       538       584       634       688        732       780       831       885       942   1.003
General Cargo
and other
(Export and
Import)             525        959       797      816   1.     0 7 1,009    1,083       1,161    1,247    1,339    1,437    1,513  1.594    1,679              1,769    1,863    1,963       2-068    2,180   2,297
Total Drv Car.o  1, ?01     3,413    2,996    4,423        3,457    3,517    3,556    3,670    3,833    3,956    4,137    4,337    4,478    4,637              4,848     S.035    5,242    5,469       5,697   5,947
(EPp. and Imp.)
of which, ' on-
taLier Traffic
(000 TEl)         -                -       _              (2)       (33      (9)        (16      (20)      (30)      (40)      (50)      (70)      (90)       (90)    (90)        (90)      (90)      (90)    (90)
(000 Tons)                  -               -            (14)      (27)      (54)     (108)    (135)    (201)    (2681    (335)    (469)    (6011)           (640)   (600)       (600)    (600)    (600)   (600)
FOL (Export and
import) (encl.
molasese)         1,557      1,569    1,489    1,809       1,870    1,940    2,010    2,090    2,170    2,250    2,300    2,340    2,390    2,440              2,480    2,530    2,580       2,640    2,690   7,740  D
Grand Total       3,258      4,982    4,485    6,232       5.327    5,457    5.566    5,760    5,983    6,206    6,437    6,677           6,868    7,077       7,328    7,565      7,822    8,109    8,387   8,687  .
Source: CPA and Appraisal Mission
October 1981



BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Figures in US$ Million)
1982/83   1983/84   1984/85    1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/93    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93   1993/94   1994/95                          1
COSTS
Capital Investment *WP           (16.96)    (33.60)    (22.63)    (17.63)   (11.22)           
*WOP             -          -       ( 5.8 )        -          -          -       ( 5.8 )        -          -           -
WP - WOP          (16.96)    (33.60)    (16.83)    (17.63)    (11.22)        -         5.8          -          -           -
Additional Operating Cost        ( 2.68)    ( 2,68)    ( 1.54)    ( 1.54)    ( 1.79)    ( 2.33)    ( 1.55)    ( 1.65'    ( 1.90)    ( 1.92)    ( 1.90)    ( 1.92)    ( 1.90)
Total Cost                       (19.64)    (36.28)    (18.37)    (19,17)    (13.01)    ( 2.33)        4.25     ( 1.65)    ( 1.90)    ( 1.92)    ( 1.90)    ( 1.92)    ( 1.90)
BENEFITS
100% of Avoided Waiting Time        -          7.60      15.16      18.92      13.42       17.01      18.81      11.47       14.38      15.69        7.94       6.92     ( 1.83)
50% of Avoided Berth Time            -         1.75       3.27       4.60        6.22       7.72       7.49       7.28        6.33       5.33        4.36       3.16        3.16
Avoided Berth Construction           -          -          -        13.34         -          -        13.34         -          -        13.34         -        13.34       13.34
Total Benefits                       -         9.35      18.43      36.86       19.64      24.73      39.64      18.75       20.71      34.36       12.30      23.42       14.64
NET BENEFIT STREAM                  (19.64)    (26.93)      0.06       17.69       6.63      22.40      43.89       17.10      18.81       32.44      10.40       21.50      12.74
ERR = 27%
W WP - With Project
*WOP = Without Project
Source: Appraisal Mission
October 1981



- 58 -
TABLE 6
BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
CPA Revenue and Expenditure Accounts FY1977-81
(Figures in Current Taka Million)
1977               1978          1979              1980            1981
----------Actual-----------------------                          Estimate
Revenues
Vessels - Revenue                       24.0              37.8           57.7             72.4            102.9
Cargo   - Revenue                       94.0             118.8          186.7            246.0            266.8
Port Revenues                          118.0             156.6          244.4            318.4            369.7
Rent                                     4.6               4.8            4.3              7.1              6.2
Interest 11                              2.3               3.2            7.1            13.5              14.0
Miscellaneous                            4.6               2.8            5.5              5.4              5.4
Total Revenue                          129.5             167.4          261.3           344.4             395.3
Working Expenses
Salaries and allowances                 21.7              32.5           39.5             50.4             59.2
Cargo handling                           3.9               6.6            9.2             12.3             17.9
Maintenance and Repairs                 23.0              29.4           34.3             55.6             78.8
Materials                               11.4              12.0           20.3             27.5             33.5
Administration                           5.9               8.7           11.4             13.2             18.4
Total Working Expenses                  65.9              89.2          114.7           159.0             207.8
Depreciation                      *     10.5               9.4           17.8            36.4              42.2
Total Operating Expenses                76.4              98.6          132.5           195.4             250.0
Interest charges                        14.0               9.5            9.2             6.8               6.1
Total Expenses                          90.4             108.1          141.7           202.2             256.1
Net Revenue                             39.1              59.3          119.6            142.2            139.2
Working ratio 2/                        50.9              53.3           43.9             46.2             52.6
Operating ratio -                       59.0              58.9           50.7            56.7              63.2
Interest coverage 4/                     4.5               8.2           15.9            27.3              30.7
1/  Does not include interest income earned on reserve fund investments
namely depreciation reserve fund, revenue reserve fund and sinking fund investments.
2/ Total workinR exDenses as percentaRe of total revenue.
3/ Total operaLing expenses as perceataie of to.al revenue.
4/ Total revenue less working expenses divided by interest charges.
Source: CPA/Mission
October 1981



-59-                                                      TABLE 7
BANGLADESn
CHITTAGONG PORH  PROJECT
CPA Balance Sheets as of June 30
(Figures in Current Taka Million)
1977       1978      1979       1980      1981
FIXED ASSETS
Land. buildings and civil works       175.2      402.3     435.5     451.3      531.4
Vessels and crafts                    118.7     157.3      249-5     257.2      268.9
Vehicles, eachinerv and esuipsent      28.6      85.3      123.6     199.7      223.0
Works in Progress                     349.1     135.0      187.6     199.4      239.8
Total net fixed assets                  671.6     779.9      996.2    1107.6    1263.1
OTHER NON-CtRRENT ASSETS
Investeents of reserve funds          358.2     322.7      368.4     471.7     575.3
Securitv dewosits                       0.3       0.3       0.3        0.2       0.2
Sundry advances                        65.7      63,9       68-9      76.6     101.9
Total non-current assets                424.2     386.9     437.6      549.5     677.4
Total Long-Term Assets                 1095.8    1166.8    1433.8    1656.1    1940.5
CllRRENT ASSETS
Stores and other inventorY             12.6       6.5        7-4       9.2      13.7
Accounts receivable                    36.6      44.9       49.7      52.1      99.3
Cash on hand/in Bank                    0.7       1.3        1.1       1.4       2.0
Total current assets                     49.9      52.7      58.2       62.7     115.0
TOTAL ASSETS                           1145.7    1219.5    1492.0    1718.8    2055.5
FINACED BY
ESUITIES
GOB contribution                      369.8     505.3     608.9      762.9    1000.4
Retained Earnings                      36.7      75.9      135.4     135.6     272.5
Reserves                              336.7     289.2     297.6      356.6     334.9
Total Eauities                          743.2     870.4    1041.9    1255.1    1607.8
LONr-TERM LIABILITIES
0B Loans                             136.6     116.4      116.3     116.2     116.1
Foreign Loans                         169.5     187.4      274.3     275.6     279.5
Security deposits                       3.0       3.0       2.8        2.4       3.1
Total long-ters liabilities             309.1     306.8      393.4     394.2     398.7
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank overdraft                         40.9                  2.4       3.4       4.6
Accounts Payable                       52.7      42.3       54.4      66.1      44.5
Total current liabilities                93.6      42.3      56.8       69.5      49.1
TOTAL EQUITIES AND LIABILITIES         1145.9    1219.5    1492.1    1718.8    2055.6
Liouid Ratio                              0.4       1.1       0.9        0.8       2.1
Current Ratio                             0.5       1.2       1.0        0.9       2.3
Debt to Eouity Ratio                      0.4       0.4       0.4        0.3       0.2
*    Provisional
Source: CPA
October 1981



BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
Key Cost Items as Percentages
of Total Working Expenses
(Current Prices)
Estimate
1976-77       1977-78      1978-79       1979-80        1980-81
(a)   Total Working Expenses                  100.0         100.0        100.0          100.0         100.0
Salaries and Allowances                  32.9          36.5         34.4          31.7           28.5
Cargo Handling - Labor Cost               5.9           7.4          8.0           7.7            8.6
Maintenance and Repairs                  34.9          32.9         29.9          35.0           37.9
Materials                                17.3          13.4         17.7          17.3           16.1                  %
Administration                            9.0           9.8         10.0           8.3            8.9                 0
Key Cost Items as Percentages
of Total Revenues
Estimate
1976-77       1977-78      1978-79       1979-80        1980-81
(b)   Total Working Expenses                   50.9          53.3         43.9          46.2           52.6
Depreciation                              8.1           5.6          6.8          10.6           10.7
Total Operating Expenses                 59.0          58.9         50.7          56.7           63.2
Interest Charges                         10.8           5.7          3.5           2.0            1.5
Total Expenses                           69.8          64.6         54.3          58.7           64.8
Net Revenue                              30.2          35.4         45.7          41.3           35.2
Source: CPA Data and Mission Estimates
October 1981                                                                                                                  t0



BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
CPA Income and Expenditure Forecasts
For the Period FY1982-88
(Figures in Current Taka Million)
-------------------Project Implementation Period---------           -      Operation*
1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88
REVENUES
Charges to Vessels            106.0        136.7        161.3        190.4       224.6         265.1         352.6
Charges to Cargo              274.8        354.5        418.3        493.6       582.5         687.3         914.1
Port Revenues                 380.8        491.2        579.6        684.0       807.1         952.4       1,266.7
Rent Income                     7.2          8.2          9.2         10.2        11.2          12.2          13.3
Interest Income                50.0         28.0           -            -           -              -            -
Miscellaneous Income            6.0          7.0         10.0         12.0        15.0           18.0         20.0
Total Income                  444.0        534.4        598.8        706.2        833.3        982.6       1,300.0          >
EXPENDITURES
Salaries and allowances        68.1         78.3         90.0        103.5        119.1         136.9        157.4
Cargo Handling                 20.6         23.7         27.2         31.3         36.0         41.4          47.6
Maintenance and Repairs        98.5        123.1        153.9        192.4        240.5         300.6        375.7
Materials                      41.9         52.3         65.4         81.8        102.2         127.8        198.1
Administration                 22.1         26.5         31.8         38.2         45.8          54.9         65.8
Working Expenses              251.2        303.9        368.3        447.2        543.6          661.6       844.6
Depreciation                   43.2         51.8         57.0         62.7         69.0           76.0       213.0
Operating Expenses            294.4        355.7        425.3        509.9        612.6          737.6    1,057.6
Interest Charges 1/             5.8         32.3         86.1        132.8        176.7         201.8        200.0
Total Expenses                300.2        388.0        511.4        642.7        789.3          939.4    1,257.6
Net Income                    143.8        146.4         87.4         63.5         44.0           43.2        42.4
Working Ratio 2/               56.6         56.9         61.5         63.3         65.2           67.3        64.9
Operating Ratio 3/             66.3         66.6         71.0         72.2          73.5          75.0        81.3
Interest Coverage 4/           33.3          7.1          2.7          2.0           1.6           1.6         2.3
*  The financial forecast for 1987/88 includes first year of operation
of MPBs.
1/ CPA does not capitalize interest and this practice has been conformed to
in the financial projections.
2/ Working ratio is working expenses divided by total income
3/ Operating ratio is operating expenses divided by total income
4/ Total income less working expenses divided by interest charges
Source: Mission Estimate
October 1981



BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
CPA Balance Sheet Protections as of June 30
(Figures in Current Taka Million)
1982        _983          1984           1985        1986          1987         1988
FIXED ASSETS
Fixed Assets                            1,103.3      1,110.1      1,118.3       1,131.3      1,153.6       1,179.6      3,950.8
Depreciation                               43.2         51.8         57.0          62.7         69.0          76.0        213.0
Works in Progress                         484.0      1,056.2      1,763.2       2,217.1      2,546.5       2,752.2         100.0
Total Net Fixed Assets                    1,544.1      2,114.5      2,824.5       3,285.7      3,631.1       3,855.8      3,837.8
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Investments of Reserve Funds              575.3        312.1            -            -            -             -             -
Security Deposits                           0.2          0.2           0.2          0.2          0.2           0.2           0.2
Sundry Advances                           101.9        101.9         101.9        101.9        101.9         101.9        101.9
Total Non-Current Assets                    677.4        414.2         102.1        102.1        102.1         102.1         102.1
Total Long-Tern Assets                    2,221.5      2,528.7      2,926.6       3,387.8      3,733.2       3,957.9      3,939.9
CURRENT ASSETS
Stores and other Inventory                 15.5         20.0         40.0          60.0         70.0          75.0         75.0
Accounts Receivable 1/                     60.0         65.0         80.0          85.0         90.0          95.0          95.0
Cash on Hand/in Bank                        5.5         50.0         144.3        104.9        149.3         177.0         160.4
Total Current Assets                         81.0        135.0         264.3        249.9        309.3         347.0         330.4
TOTAL ASSETS                              2,302.5      2,663.7      3,190.9       3,637.7      4,042.5       4,304.9      4,270.3
Financed By:
Equities:
GOB Contribution                        1,094.6      1,094.6      1,094.6       1,094.6      1,094.6       1,094.6      1,094.6
Retained Earnings                         751.3        897.7        985.0      1,048.5       1,092.5      1,135.6       1,178.0
Total Equities                            1,845.9      1,992.3       2,079.6      2,143.1      2,187.1       2,230.2      2,272.6
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
GOB Loans                                 116.1        116.1        216.1         368.1        548.1         728.1        728.1
Foreign Loans                             272.3        476.8        812.1       1,035.4      1,209.2       1,243.5      1,166.5
Security Deposits                           3.1          3.1           3.1          3.1          3.1           3.1           3.1
Total Long-Term  Liabilities                391.5        596.0       1,031.3      1,406.6      1,760.4       1,974.7       1,897.7
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank Overdraft
Accounts Payable                           65.1          75.4        80.0          88.0         95.0          100.0        100.0
Total Current Liabilities                    65.1           75.4        80.0         88.0          95.0         100.0        100.0
TOTAL EQUITIES AND LIABILITIES            2,302.5       2,663.7    3,190.9        3,637.7      4,042.5        4,304.9     4,270.3
Liquid Ratio 2/                               1.0            1.5         2.8          2.2           2.5           2.7          2.6
Current Ratio 3/                              1.2            1.8         3.3          2.9           3.2            3.5         3.3
Debt to Equity Ratio 4/                       0.2            0.3         0.5          0.7           0.8           0.9          0.8
1/  Only partial amount of this account represents trade receivable,
substantial portion is non-trade receivable.
2/ Current assets less inventory divided by current liabilities
/  Current assets divided by current liabilities
4/ Total long-term liabilities divided by total equities
Source: Mission Estimates
October 1981



BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
CPA's Investment Program FY1982-87
(Figures in Current Taka Million)
Budget       ------------------------Forecast       --------      -------           TOTAL
Name of the Project                              1981-82      1982-83       1983-84       1984-85       1985-86       1986-87        1982/83-86/87
1.    Reconstruction of Transit Sheds                    20.00         25.00        22.00         20.00            -             -              67.00
2.    Workshop and Slipway                               17.20         20.00         10.00           -             -             -              30.00
3.    Construction of Lighterage Jetty                    7.50         20.00           -             -             -             -              20.00
4.    Rehabilitation of Railway Track                     7.50         30.00           -             -             -             -              30.00
5.    Construction Explosive Jetty                       10.00         30.00           -             -             -             -              30.00
6.    Procurement of Vessels and Crafts                  20.00         15.00         20.00           -             -             -              35.00
7.    Multipurpose berths - IDA Project                    -          411.20       637.00        420.30         315.80        195.70         1,980.00
8.    Rehabilitation of Eight Jetties 14-17                -             -             -            3.6           3.6            -               7.20
9.    Construction of Two Lighthouses                     5.00          4.00          3.00           -             -             -               7.00
10.    Expert Services for Operating,
Accounting and Financial Services                 2.00          2.00          -              -             -             -               2.00
11.    Improvement of Lighting in the
Port Area                                         5.00          5.00         5.00           -              -             -              10.00             L
12.    Dredging 1/                                       130.00           -             -             -             -             -                -
13.    Embayment Works to Jetty No.1                      20.00         10.00         10.00         10.00         10.00         10.00            50.00
TOTAL - ADP Approval Required                     244.20       572.20        707.00        453.90        329.40        205.70          2,268.20
14.    Capital Works, Replacements and
Renewals                                        80.00         50.00         60.00         70.00         85.00          95.00           360.00
GRAND TOTAL                                       324.20       622.20        767.00        523.90        414.40         300.70         2,628.20
Source: Mission Estimates                                                                                                                                  a09
October 1931
Notes: 1/  One item dredging for the period 1982/83 onwards has been excluded from the
investment plan as its execution is dependant on success of the trial dredging currently
underway under the Fertilizer Transport Project. The above investment plan has been
approved by CPA.



BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
CPA Sources and Applications of Funds Forecasts
For the Period FY1982-88
(Figures in Current Teka Million)
1981/82     1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87       1987/88
Sources
Net income                                    143.9        146.4        87.3         63.5         44.0         43.1          42.4
Depreciation                                   43.2        51.8         57.0         62.7         69.0         76.0         213.0
Surplus withdrawal                               -      - 263.2        312.1           -            -            -             -
Total internal cash generation                187.1       461.4        456.4        126.2        113.0        119.1         255.4
GOB Grant                                      94.2           -           -            -            -             -            -              O
Proposed IDA credit                              -        211.6        342.7        230.8        182.5         112.5                           X
Other foreign loans                              -            -           -            -             -            -
Local loans                                      -           -         100.0        152.0        180.0         180.0       _
Total longterm debt                              -        211.6        442.7        382.8        362.5        292.5
Total sources                                281.3        673.0        899.1        509.0        475.5        411.6         255.4
Applications
Proposed IDA project                             -        411.2        637.0        420.3        315.8         195.7           _
Other capital investments                     324.2       210.8        130.0        103.6         98,6         105.0         195.0
Total investments                            324.2        622.0        767.0        523.9        414.4        300.7          195.0
Local loan repayments
Foreign loan repayments - World Bank             -           -            -            -            -           65.5          67.0
Foreign loan repayments - Other                 7.2         7.3          7.4          7.5          8.7          10.7          10.0
Total repayment                                 7.2         7.3          7.4          7.5          8.7         78.2           77.0
Working capital change                        (50.1)       43.7        124.7        (22.4)        52.4          32.7         (16.6)
Total annlications                           281.3        673.0        899.1        509          _            41i.6          255.4
tdj
Source: Mission Estimate
October 1981



- 65 -                           Table 13
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF CHITTAGONG PORT
Effect of Alternative Investments on Effective Port Capacity
82/3    84/5    87/8    90/1    93/4   95/6
Dry Cargo Tonnage
at GCBs/MPBs only
(000 tons)                    2065    2438    2952    3453    4074   4552
Berth day
requirements (Case A          5494    6375    7663    8928   10440  11598
(Case B         5494    5631    5898    6157    6495   7215
(Case C         5494    5009    4432    4954    5895   6615
(Case D          5494    5125    4767    5554    6495   7215
Note:   Case A:  If handling rates remain constant at present levels.
Case B:  If handling rates increase steadily and reach target
levels in 1993/94; container facility is not provided
[without-project case].
Case C:  If handling rates increase steadily and reach target
levels in 1987/88; container facility is provided
[with-project case]
Case D:  If handling nets increase steadily and reach target
levels in 1987/88; container facility is not provided.
Source: Appraisal Mission
October 1981



BANGLADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHITTAGONG PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of the Chittagong Port Authority (CPA)
0-,,~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                   CHARMNO
I I~~~~~-
|mn                                                                                                            Offw- Meme    l  l i  X
Shpp,~g
Dep_ty Chief  s |perDock Ma enr
Eeg her    _  Worktflop                                                                                                    Ori2



BANG LADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
PORT CAPACITY SUPPLY AND DEMAND
Berth-day Supply
and Demand at Port
12,000                                                                                                                       Case A
11,000
10,000
9,000 _
8,000 _
Cases B and D I
7,000                                                                                                                       Case C
...............        .                     =... 90% Occupancy   Berth-day Supply under
6,000 -                                                                                                                                      the Project, i.e.
..................                                     .......                                     ............... 80% Occupancy 17 Berths before 1986/87
19 Berths as of 1986/87
5,000 1...........
4,000 -
3,000                                                                                                               Note: Cases A, B, C and D are described in Table 13
2,000                                                                                                                  _    Demand for Berth-days
......  Supply of Berth-days
1,000 _
1982/83       1984/85        1986/87        1988/89       1990/91        1992/93       1994/95
1983/84       1985/86        1987/88        1989/90       1991/92        1993/94        1995/96
YEAR                                                                          World Bank-23355
Ili,






IBRD 16051 R
, A.I N C I A                                                                                        9]~.t91-4S                                                                                            91.52 FEBORUARY 1982
INt.                      N                                 Th,e ttta h-a  bea po,op.ed by the
f   h _    >                                   Wotrd B-at  eff -C- y t,o
the - -een,- of the--ee...o
<S                                 ~~~~~~~~~~the eport 'n oh,ch ,t   atta-hed
I,1_-2-2    hTOe de'noin.n22Cons n.ed and the                                                                                                                                                           22-2
- f' ~ ' .- _             do oro - opty on the pr of  .                        C    IheT
Wortd Ban. a-d tn affb,et-  any                                                                       Sadarghot
-j                                             )                   fndontent on the teettatus Sfo5ff|                                                         I
BANGLADE S H                    r                      C    eteve   h Ouch bno aetJ--
I  f         \k, {   \                                       + F--ip~~~~~~~~ Chittagong             Z+
rNOIA I, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~UI
It.                            I        ! .^                            I  f PA    9     f f i c             e             G
*         75 M.                               fs                        V tln  cto    ,                  /
75                           K            _**  BLR   A _rns  ..  
91 ,144'-....  .
- ~~~~ ~ ~     ~ ott.,         SRMAl Basel \ltn  1
- ~       ~          . -.mn\
|                                                                  \ \0<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Noner boon y I
Jety-   / \          0X:  AhoJO,,oott1 M C C)                       Gupta
! - - - \ g X > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bend
K22t16'                                                                          FUTURE                            srgo                                                                                                       22-16'
Port   limit                                            IIIDUSTRIAL
-                       ------                                    SITE\                                      hta          c
Pciteng/                                                                    BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
PORT FACILITIES
Project  site
--7    Teatotnp  -. .                                                                                                                                        -"        Jetties
,- . M  i d dI e          :         T         Training  walls
Island                           ------  Depth  contours - fathoms
lilt 11                                                              - .-.   -Mud
Ott^'B@' lil'l|te Boo                        ... -                                                   - Swamp
Roads
-e-   --.-- Railway
.    -N t----Port  limit
L 2.~2 .2        \\                                                                                                             -                                                                                              22'12
MILES~~~~~~~I
g   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     _                                                                     . . ~~~~~~~~~~~K LOAAETER; 0                            1             2               3
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IhAL E S  O                                                                          1                        2
19t'4J'                                                                                                9148'                                                                                                 91-52






f                                                                                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 16052R
BANGLADESH                                                                                                                      (fFEBRUARY 1982
CHITTAGONG  PORT PROJECT                                                    /GR
EXISTING  FACILITIES ANDN                                                                          /                              Q                         MULTIPURPOSE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                                       BERTHS LAYOUT
I!~~~~N I
PR  UHRT---                                                                                    STATIONAN
POTATORFRY              e                      2TANSIT SHED                                                                                                      'Zz
CUSTOM HOUSE      (       &D71~/CNTIESBEKB~
(7                      (                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NON STANDAD AND 
ON                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNITISED CARG  IMPORS
7  -             (50                                                                                                    /                          114
N- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~IN   ADR   N
''E l1                                                                                   U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NITISRG CARGO AND
1-7   Proiect Areo  ~      ~           *        MPOTSWHEELED VEHICLES
'~~'  71  Praieot Area                T~~~\\                                     IMPORTS          CONIAINERNS,      z7/
ExstngShed                                       '5               QPETNON
Se  Existing                        ,,n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  S~~TANDARD&        '5
0~  //~'  -~7~A) 57,/li ERShed Under Construction                              '\\UNITSED                                                            -
F~0Other Buildings                                                                                            CAORGO 
Railways
Port Authority Boundary
/  ME T/PStRQSF f1/T'S  i~~ 1'      200    400    600    Boo 
\,~/,~;;/E   E?AUFQ M~P~Gpto  ~    %BANGAMIETER/                                      CR                U>LK NONSADARD 
EXOC~~~~1~N
TE,s stan Era Been prapat~~~~d RE the  ~dK1AND,UNITUR
the oorwsntenoe rPsOe readers oP                  E,GCATED                     CARGOIMPORT
~~a~~t7r~~~t~~ ,nodradttm  0           /              i                                                         --             Boundary~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
hoodaoa how o tOs ap                                        STCKIG  REA' 
any tn/ttsp orasp sdoraStast                                            I       /                                                          RIER
WolPokasit tlae,ary/                                                                              L                                                         O                  0
jndpntsn no tEelegatottotDOfA
OCdOOOPtOflOt nP such LoDESH






::; <, 02200:0 TRANSPORTATION NETWORK ; t 
0   9, <    A            <       A~~~t  -0   G    iP tJX         W         z?              ;;         0                an    sooc hOHETdeRxhs00                         0        
t <GA X  s  0 r K  S                     I  
Mmnwj1\~~~~~~~~~~r flq4   k\1 -G    i
t;    0 0 i 0   =0 ) GSNuES   <   t_       -   t        j   ,                                                                                   , | / sTn I
4_2 2Qt;0 t0 ; (: \ rXr -,dtpR {SHAI :I;0      ;0000
:   0    S   o  H     i         iS                                        jat                    S    i                |   X              .  0,,  gz .: X    X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hb .,
j ; Q f J 11U S 5 0 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~, FD 4!4PUR.?N tbe        
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sb nf                                R):2Z YD            A 1           P4  U         
r  ,  - /; h>R TRAN~~~~~JSSORE                                                        0                                    5i  .  
~~~~ 1 T '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'>fU   Sl.* Us.1 f5          rI Ost ,\,,<J   
j  t tI L' I A  /  We CS.LA'E51- .   '<  9XF   /   l |                                                                   W                     )  \/8 Ji                \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
| f / bo. : ? j e 1Cz 2f ae *f se i \ :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tk,
tX                             <               1 \t  0                11       ?>        *f       '5      f 5                             |                               9*                    ?1| =>,:~~~~U~KHA
X/g8R1  LANK.S  i 0> ?' ol' 'f2' \ <'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CITTGO



