Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P -3286-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION-
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
April 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket
of reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as
intervention currency. On January 11, 1982, the exchange rate
was set at Tk 38.3720 buying and Tk 38.4720 selling per Pound
Sterling. Depending on exchange rate movements between Sterling
and the US Dollar, the Taka/Dollar crossrate is subject to change.
In recent months, this rate has fluctuated between Tk 21-22 per
US dollar. Throughout this report the rates shown below have
been used:
US$1         - Tk 18.00
Tk 1         - US$0.555
Tk 1 million - US$55,556
PRINCIPAL ABBREVATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB            Asian Development Bank
BIWTA          Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BIWTC          Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BR             Bangladesh Railways
CPA            Chittagong Port Authority
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
GCB            General Cargo Berth
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOB            Government of Bangladesh
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
MPB            Multipurpose Berth
RHD            Roads and Highways Department
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiary:           The Chittagong Port Authority (CPA)
Amount:                SDR 54.0 million (US$60.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) would re-lend to
CPA all the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit at an
interest rate of not less than 14% per annum, repayable
over 20 years, including four years grace period. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by CPA.
Project Description:  The project seeks to provide the Port of Chittagong with
adequate capacity for handling the expected growth in
general cargo and container traffic through the early
1990's. This would be achieved through the construction
of two multipurpose berths suitable for servicing general
cargo as well as container vessels and by improving the
throughput of the existing berths by providing new
cargo handling equipment and by training of the port
workers.
Risks:                 The project faces no major risks.  However, it is
conceivable, though not likely, that at Chittagong
the expected rapid rise in container traffic may not
materialize. Signs of such development would be evident
during the early period of the project implementation
and in this event the situation would be reviewed and
procurement of container handling equipment would be
postponed or even dropped.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs:                                       Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ million-------
(a) Multipurpose Berths
(i) Berth structures         11.0       14.2       25.2
(ii) Backup facilities        11.1        4.6       15.7
(iii) Container handling
equipment               5.2       8.6       13.8
(b) Cargo Handling Equipment
(i) Interim Container
Facility                3.5       5.6        9.1
(ii) Replacement Equipment   2.1          3.4        5.5
(iii) Additional Equipment    2.1          3.6        5.7
(c) Maintenance Facility          1.9        1.1        3.0
(d) Training Institute            0.9        0.6        1.5
(e) Technical Assistance           -         2.0        2.0
(f) Engineering Services           -         3.6        3.6
Base Cost                37.8      47.3       85.1
(g) Physical Contingencies        3.0        3.4        6.4
Price                         9.2        9.3       18.5
Total Estimated
Project Cost            50.0 1/   60.0      110.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                               -         60.0       60.0
GOB                              15.0         -        15.0
CPA                              35.0         -        35.0
Total                            50.0       60.0      110.0
Estimated
Disbursement:                            FY83      FY84     FY85      FY86      FY87
Annual            4.8      12.5      17.7     15.3       9.7
Cumulative        4.8      17.3     35.0      50.3      60.0
Economic Rate
of Return:            23%
Appraisal Report:    Bangladesh:  Chittagong Port Project, Report No, 3666-BD,
dated Aprtil 16, 1981.
1/   Includes duties and taxes of US$19.8 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 54.0 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$60.0 million), on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Chittagong Port Project. The Government would re-lend to the
Chittagong Port Authority (CPA) all the proceeds of the proposed credit at
an interest rate of not less than 14% per annum repayable over 20 years,
including a four year grace period. The CPA would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Develop-
ments and Selected Development Issues," (Report No. 3768-BD, dated March 3,
1982) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties. In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out
of a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be
scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore
Programme" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficul-
ties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a. despite
several serious setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing
rose by about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking
place outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain



- 2 -
supplies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deteriora-
tion in the balance of payments in FY80, the concluding years of the decade
witnessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures
to attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation during the second half of the past decade
was followed by continued improvements in production in FY81. Favorable
weather and stepped-up provision of agricultural inputs helped to increase
rice production by 9% to a record level of 13.7 million tons and wheat
production by 33% to 1.1 million tons. As output in industrial and services
sectors also increased substantially over their FY80 levels, GDP at market
prices increased by about 7% in real terms. Notwithstanding these improve-
ments in production, Bangladesh experienced growing financial difficulties
during FY81. Sharply higher petroleum prices, declining export prices for
jute goods and a shortfall in commodity aid availabilities below the Govern-
ment's expectations affected the balance of payments. The shortfall in aid
receipts, an unanticipated shortfall in debt service payments from public
enterprises, and substantial expenditures on food procurements which were
necessary in order to maintain farmgate prices in a record crop year also
affected the budget; and a budget deficit of Tk 5 billion, equivalent to
about 2 1/2% of GNP at market prices, emerged in FY81. As a result, credit
ceilings for June 1981 established in the context of the EFF arrangement with
the IMF were exceeded by a substantial margin and the EFF arrangement was
suspended. The Fund is currently reviewing the situation in the light of the
country's financial and balance of payment prospects.
The Balance of Payments
6.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid; export earnings are
currently less than 30% of the import bill. A sharp decline in export prices
of raw jute and jute goods (which account for two-thirds of total export
earnings) and of major non-traditional exports, notably leather and fish
products, led to a 2% decline in export earnings in FY81, although the volume
of exports increased by 10%. Imports, on the other hand, increased by 6% in
value terms as a result of increased prices of crude petroleum and petroleum
products and of other imports.  Bangladesh's terms of trade deteriorated by                g
22% in FY81 mainly as a result of higher import prices and the sharp decline
in export prices noted earlier.
7.      The current account deficit--US$1.43 billion in FY81--has been con-
siderably smaller than the trade deficit, due mainly to the rapid growth of



- 3 -
workers' remittances from the Middle East; these receipts are now the second
most important source of foreign exchange earnings. The payments gap was
largely covered by aid disbursements estimated at US$1.15 billion, close to
half of merchandise imports. Although project aid disbursements increased
substantially, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity
as well as a build up in the project pipeline, there was, as noted earlier, a
crucial shortfall in commodity aid availabilities and new commitments.
Bangladesh also made considerable use of IMF resources, including initial
drawings on a SDR 800 million EFF arrangement which became effective in
December 1980 and which was recently suspended.
8.      The balance of payments outlook for FY82 remains difficult.  Export
earnings are expected to decline sharply this year, due to depressed prices
for jute, and terms of trade to decline further by 15%.  Aid inflows are
expected to be only about 5% more in nominal terms than in FY81. Given the
tight foreign exchange position, imports will have to be reduced below FY81
levels in real terms with consequent detrimental effects on production,
especially in the manufacturing sector. Gross reserves may have to be run-
down by about US$100 million by the end of FY82 to around US$150 million, the
equivalent of three weeks imports; and in addition, net short-term borrowing
of about US$170 million will be required to bridge the external financing gap
for FY82.
9.      Debt service payments on medium and long-term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of the Bangladesh's
total debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Public Finance
10.     Government finances which had improved considerably in FY79
deteriorated in FY80 and FY81, partly as a result of expenditures for invest-
ments in foodgrain stocks, and lower than expected contributions by the major
public sector corporations to the revenue budget. Faced with these difficul-
ties, although the Government cut back the development budget by about 13%,
the deficit for FY81 substantially exceeded revised forecasts (see above).
The budgetary situation is expected to continue to be tight in FY82 as the
severe balance of payments situation will have a substantial impact on tax
revenues. In order to contain the budget deficit to manageable proportions,



- 4 -
the Government has reduced the local currency component of the development
budget by 15% below the budgeted level.
11.     The Government has shown a growing awareness of the need to improve
the financial performance of the public sector enterprises and utilities and
to reduce major subsidies. In recent years, GOB has raised foodgrain ration
prices and a number of utility rates and commodity sales prices of public
sector enterprises.  In some cases, these price adjustments only kept pace
with inflation, but in others--notably fertilizer and foodgrains--they served
to reduce the unit subsidy in real terms. Petroleum product prices have been
raised by roughly 140% since November 1979. Nevertheless, following the
depreciation of the taka, further adjustments will be required to eliminate
the subsidy on this account.
12.     Foodgrain prices remained stable during FY81, but the cost of other
essentials continued to increase and pushed the general cost-of-living index
up by about 9% for FY81 as a whole. Measured by the implicit GDP deflator,
aggregate inflation--which had spurted from a rate of 6.5% in FY79 to 14.9%
in FY80--declined substantially in FY81 to only about 6%. However, as a
result of the rapid expansion in credit in FY81 and the decline in food
production in FY82 inflation has accelerated during the first few months of
FY82 and is now running at an annual rate of about 18%. Tight controls were
placed on credit growth in the early part of FY82 in order to re-establish
financial stability and, as a consequence, the rate of inflation is expected
to slow down.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
13.     The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980) accords
high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in
foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase
to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population growth rate with
a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate to unity by 1990; (iii)
progress towards mass literacy through free universal primary education; and
(iv) priority to energy development, particularly through accelerated
exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.
14.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion
of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts
to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with
assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which
provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP
target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. While this target is feasible, its
achievement will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient resour-
ces to provide needed inputs to farmers and to permit the private sector to
play an expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural



implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of
foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension services and
training, and appropriate producer incentives.
15.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have been
coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
bank assistance, a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.
16.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The planners recognize that it will take longer than five years,
but they have set themselves the ambitious target of introducing universal
primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary-school age by
1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal mass
education scheme for those already past primary school age. IDA is assisting
GOB in preparing a medium-term plan for the education sector.
17.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an annual
basis. The Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more work and
considerable discipline will be needed in identifying core programs and
projects and protecting them to the extent possible in a situation of
resource scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent,
activities such as education and rural development should be carried out in a
decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and
grass-roots participation. 1/
18.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations have concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the
industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and
1/   A review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the Bank's
1981 economic report, No. 3309-BD, dated February 23, 1981.



-6-
industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$147.1 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971. In addition, as of March 31, 1982, 58 new credits have been
approved, totalling US$1,804.67 million; of these, US$765 million have been
for import credits (ten imports program credits and two fertilizer imports
credits). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three invest-
ments (for a shipbuilding company, an investment promotion company and a
leather factory) have been approved.
20.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(19 of the 46 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities. In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks interferring
with the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example,
IDA plans to emphasize rural electrification and elimination of shortages of
generation capacity or distribution facilities which have been a major
impediment to utilization of existing industrial capacity.
21.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh.  The industrial sector has also benefited from
three fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project,
several DFC and small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans.
22.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population program makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population



- 7 -
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
23.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies.  IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
24.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to sectors where the percentage of foreign exchange costs
is relatively low, local currency expenditures also are being financed in
certain priority areas such as education, agriculture and rural development,
including small-scale and cottage industries.
25.     Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy, industrial
investment strategy, and increased domestic resource mobilization and have
been undertaken in the context of the recent detailed review of the Govern-
ment's Second Five-Year Plan.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Sector Characteristics
26.     The deltaic nature of Bangladesh's geography results in complex
transport problems. About one third of the country's surface is normally
flooded annually during three to six months, and there are few areas that
are not liable to serious flooding every two or three years. The flooding
potential has been aggravated in recent times by increasing river siltation.
These features make access to the various regions of the country difficult
since transport infrastructure is generally expensive, river channels are
frequently shifting and roads have to be built to high standards and recon-
structed periodically.



- 8 -
27.       The transport sector suffered considerable damage during the war
which led to independence in 1971. More than one third of trucks and buses
were destroyed; about 600 road and railway bridges were damaged or destroyed;
railway workshops, motive power and rolling stock were severely hit; airfields
and ports were damaged; and sunken ships blocked important waterways. During
the 1970s, Bangladesh made a significant effort to reconstruct and expand its
transport sector by repairing damaged roads, bridges and landing facilities.
Road Transport
28.       Traditionally, the main transport modes have been the inland water-
ways and the railways. However, there has been a steady change in favor of
road transport, which is now estimated to carry about 20% of freight and
about 50% of passenger traffic, in spite of the poorly developed highway
network, with only 4,000 miles of paved roads, many unbridged gaps and inade-
quate ferry services. Among the reasons for the underdevelopment of the road
system is the very high cost of road construction resulting from the poor
engineering characteristics of soils, the flooding potential that makes high
embankments necessary, and the scarcity of construction materials. The main
road system is administered by the Roads and Highways Department (an agency
of the Ministry of Transport and Communications), while minor roads, mostly
unpaved are under the responsibility of local authorities. Overall lack of
resources, compounded by policies favoring construction over maintenance, has
resulted in poor road maintenance standards and practices throughout the
country. These issues would be addressed under a possible third highway
project currently under discussion with the Government.
Railway Transport
29.      Bangladesh Railway is state-owned and managed, and comprises about
1,200 route miles of medium gauge track located mainly in the eastern part
of the country and about 600 route miles of broad gauge track in the west.
The two halves of the system are connected by two ferries across the Jamuna
(Brahmaputra) River. The track is of low standard and most of it is poorly
maintained. Since independence, employee productivity and availability and
utilization rates of locomotives and rolling stock have all fallen, thus
reducing the railway's carrying capacity. Freight traffic is below pre-
independence levels, while passenger transport has increased considerably due
to low passenger fares and an implicit GOB policy of priority to passenger
traffic.  The transport system would benefit if some railway bridges were
provided with permanent decking to permit their use by road transport also.
Bangladesh Railway is now receiving considerable assistance from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB), Britain, Saudia Arabia and Canada.
Inland Water Transport
30.       The length of navigable inland waterways ranges from 3,245 miles
in the dry season to 5,240 miles during the monsoon. The Bangladesh Inland
Water Transport Authority (BIWTA) controls the inland waterways, regulates
traffic and fares and maintains certain facilities such as inland ports and
navigation channels. Mechanized inland water transport is provided by the
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC) and by private operators,
the latter carrying about 90% of passengers and 50% of freight traffic. The



mechanized fleet is supplemented by about 90,000 country boats of one or two
ton average capacity. Of the BIWTC fleet of some 600 vessels, with a capacity
of about 180,000 tons, some 70% will require extensive repairs within five
years, and a program of repair and replacement is being prepared with the
help of specialists financed by IDA (Credit 735-BD). The private mechanized
sector, comprising about 600 vessels of 155,000 tons capacity, is currently
undergoing expansion with GOB's help. The inland water transport subsector
is also receiving assistance from the Netherlands and Norway.
Ports
31.       International trade is handled at the maritime ports of Chittagong
and Chalna, which are operated by the Chittagong Port Authority and the Port
of Chalna Authority, respectively. Chittagong is Bangladesh's main port and
has experienced a steady growth since partition when Calcutta ceased to be
the preferred port for the East Bengal hinterland.  Port facilities and
throughput grew from four berths handling about 0.5 million tons in 1947 to
the present 17 general cargo berths, several jetties and moorings handling
about 6.2 million tons in 1979/80. In 1979/80 average berth occupancy was
as high as 92% and the average detention to shipping was 4 days per ship.
These delays resulted in surcharges of between 10% and 20% being levied by
various shipping conference during 1979. The high occupancy rate and projected
growth of traffic, particularly containerized cargo, highlight the urgent
need to expand the port's through-put capacity.
32.       The Port of Chalna, located in the west on the Pussur River, about
30 miles south of Khulna, was established as an anchorage in 1950. It serves
as a major outlet for jute exports and is currently handling over 2 million
tons per year. Recently, alongside facilities comprising 5 berths with
transit sheds and warehouses have been constructed with financial assistance
from Yugoslavia but their use is seriously affected by draft restrictions.
It is hoped that the studies of the Pussur River which have been financed
under the Second Technical Assistance Credit (872-BD), will provide some
insight into the siltation problem and suggest economic ways to overcome
draft restrictions.
Shipping
33.       The state-owned Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) provides
commercial services linking Bangladesh to India, Pakistan, the Middle East,
the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States. In late 1979, BSC owned
23 vessels with a total fleet capacity of over 330,000 DWT. Under the first
Inland Water Transport Credit (424-BD), BSC acquired secondhand, two tankers
of about 20,000 DWT each to provide lighterage services between sea-going
tankers and the petroleum refinery at Chittagong. The bulk of shipping
services is for cargo transport though some passenger services are also
provided. BSC's share of international cargo traffic now amounts to about
15%.
Air Transport
34.       The air transport subsector for freight traffic is of limited
scope in the Bangladesh economy. In 1979, domestic air traffic amounted to



- 10 -
about 1,800 tons of cargo and 350,000 passengers. The state-owned airline,
Bangladesh Biman, the only domestic operator, also operates some international
routes in competition with foreign airlines. Biman has four F27's for domes-
tic routes and four 707's for international operations; it hopes to purchase
or lease more aircrafts for domestic services and wide-bodied aircraft for
international operations.
Transport Administration and Planning
35.       Most transport activities fall under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Transport and Communications. The Ministry has control over
staff appointments and promotions, wages and salaries and budgets of operating
agencies under its jurisdiction. The Ministry of Planning is responsible
for coordinating transport investments and policies through its Transport
Section, on the basis of information collected and analyzed by its Transport
Survey Section. Within individual ministries, control is highly centralized
and cooperation among the various ministries and agencies is largely informal.
Investment priorities are not always clearly defined.
36.       In recent years, several sector-wide studies have been done and
issues have been identified. First, capital investment tends to be seen by
GOB as the principal remedy to the ills of the sector. This attitude, encour-
aged in the early 1970s by the urgent need to reconstruct the infrastructure
which had been badly damaged by the war, now militates against allocation of
resources for important maintenance purposes.  Second, the above tendency has
also overlooked the potentially large benefits to be gained from improved
operation and management of public agencies in the sector. Third, scarce
local funds, equipment and staff have frequently been spread over a large
number of projects, and the ensuing dilution of resources has contributed
to slow project implementation.
37.       More recently the Government has been paying attention to the
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing transport facilities. Also,
because of the shortage of resources, a number of projects have been by
necessity indefinitely suspended and investment plans are becoming more
selective with more emphasis on quicker yielding projects. GOB is also
taking steps to encourage greater private participation.
Past IDA Assistance to the Transport Sector
38.       IDA assistance has been limited to the highway and inland water
transport subsectors and has financed the following projects. The First
Highway Project (Credit 408-BD, US$25 million), was approved in 1973. The
three major project components were: (a) the construction of the Sitalakhya
Bridge on the Dacca-Chittagong road, which was completed and opened to
traffic in December 1977; (b) the Feni Bypass, which bypasses the congested
Feni City, and was completed and opened to traffic in July 1979; and (c) the
Roads and Highways Department headquarters building was completed and occupied
in 1979. Pavement failures on the Feni Bypass, shortly after opening to
traffic, have resulted in extension of the Credit closing date to December 31,



- 11 -
1982 to facilitate utilization of unexpended project funds on short term
remedial works. Government is presently considering alternative means of
carrying out the necessary major pavement strengthening.
39.       The Second Highway Project (Credit 964-BD, US$10 million), approved
in December 1979 provides for the construction of bypasses round the congested
towns of Comilla and Chandina on the Dacca-Chittagong Road. Project implemen-
tation, which was beset with initial delays due to inability to reach timely
decision on the award of contracts, is now progressing slowly and is expected
to be completed about two years behind schedule.
40.       The First Inland Water Transport Project (Credit 424-BD, US$4.1
million), approved in 1973, provided for financing the purchase of urgently
needed spare parts and equipment, and a supplemental credit (US$4.6 million),
approved in 1975, financed an oil transfer system at Chittagong. This
project has been successfully completed. The Second Inland Water Transport
Project (Credit 735-BD, US$5 million), approved in July 1977 financed the
purchase of spare parts, materials and equipment and technical assistance to
strengthen the planning, accounting and operational capabilities of agencies
in the inland water transport subsector. The studies included in the project
have been completed and the recommendations are being implemented.
41.       The Fertilizer Transport Project (Credit 1096-BD, US$25 million),
approved in early 1981 will improve the availability of fertilizer to farmers
by expediting fertilizer handling and distribution, increasing the efficiency
and capacity of the transport sector, and encouraging private sector partici-
pation in fertilizer distribution and transport. The project-s physical com-
ponents, designed to remove major bottlenecks in the transport sector, include
river port improvements and dredging at Chittagong Port.
42.       In addition, discussions are in progress with Government on possible
IDA assistance to finance a Road Maintenance, Improvement and Rehabilitation
Project and a Secondary Roads Project which would help improve rural and
intercity communication in selected districts.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Scope
43.       The proposed project is based on the feasibility study carried out
in 1980/81 by Chittagong Port Authority (CPA) with the help of consultants
financed under IDA Third Technical Assistance Credit (872-BD). It was
appraised in July 1981 and a Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Bangladesh
Chittagong Port Project (No. 3666-BD) dated April 16, 1982 is being dis-
tributed separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is in Annex III.
Negotiations for this credit were held in Washington from April 12-16, 1982.
The GOB delegation was led by Mr. Md. Shamsul Haque Chishty, Secretary,
Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport Division, Ministry of Transport
and Communications. The project would seek to provide the Port of Chittagong
with adequate capacity for handling the expected growth in general cargo
and container traffic through the early 1990s. This would be achieved



- 12 -
through the construction of two multipurpose berths suitable for servicing
general cargo as well as container vessels, and by improving the throughput
of the existing berths through the provision of new cargo handling equip-
ment and by training of the port workers.
Project Description
44.       More specifically, the proposed project would comprise:  (a) con-
struction of two multipurpose berths, together with backup facilities, includ-
ing a paved storage area and a container freight station; (b) provision of
equipment and spares for handling containers and general cargo for replacing
obsolete equipment; (c) provision of maintenance facilities; (d) supply of
necessary equipment and auxiliaries for the Training Institute; (e) technical
assistance for the development of a preventive maintenance program, a training
program for port workers and organization of the working of the Training
Institute, the development of a port management information system and prepa-
ration of a container operations manual; and (f) engineering services for the
detailed engineering of back-up facilities, and for supervision of contracts
for civil works and procurement of equipment.
45.       To meet the long-term requirement of container traffic, it is
proposed to construct two new multipurpose berths along the undeveloped
riverbank upstream of No. 14 berth (see attached Map). The berths will be
designed to carry gantry cranes and other container handling equipment.
However, no gantry cranes would be provided under this project as the con-
tainer traffic in the early years of development is expected to be moved in
vessels equipped with their own cranes. The existing provision for yard
equipment and back-up facilities (storage yard, freight station, etc.) are
adequate to meet the traffic needs in the initial years of the project.
Suitable augmentation of the existing facilities, including the provision of
gantry cranes would be made at a later stage under another project, if
justified. Before inviting bids in late 1985 for container equipment for use
at the multipurpose berths, CPA will review prospects for container traffic
development and decide in agreement with IDA, what equipment should be
acquired (Section 3.11 of the draft Project Agreement).
46.       Pending the construction of the new berths, container vessels would
be serviced at two of the existing berths. Two of the existing warehouses and
a part of the paved area available near these berths together with the yard
equipment to be provided under the proposed project would be used as interim
container facilities. In order to improve operations at the general cargo
berths, obsolete equipment would be replaced and additional cargo handling
equipment would be provided.
47.       Technical Assistance.  The project would provide about 228 man-
months of technical assistance, estimated to cost about US$1.6 million, to
help develop an effective program for preventive maintenance of equipment and
for the training of operators, dock workers and warehouse supervisors. The
consultants would also develop a long-term training program and organization
of the Training Institute, develop a port management information system and
train staff for its operation.



- 13 -
Cost Estimates
48.       Total project costs are estimated at US$110.0 million (including
duties and taxes amounting to US$19.8 million equivalent), with a foreign
exchange component of around US$60.0 million. The base cost estimate reflects
January 1982 prices; in addition contingency provision has been made for:
(i) physical variation of 8% in the case of civil works for berth structures
and 20% for the necessary works for which detailed engineering is not yet
completed; and (ii) annual price escalation on foreign costs at 8.5% for 1982,
7.5% for 1983 to 1985 and 6% for 1986/87 and on local costs at 11% per annum
for 1982-87. 1/ Provision for technical assistance allows for 132 man-months
of expatriate specialist services at US$10,000 per man-month and 96 man-months
of local/regional consultant services at US$3,000 per man-month.
Financing Plan
49.       The proposed IDA credit of US$60.0 million would cover 100% of
foreign exchange costs and 55% of total project costs net of taxes and duties.
Of the local costs estimated at US$50.0 million (including taxes and duties),
US$35 million would be met by the Chittagong Port Authority from its own
resources, and the balance of US$15.0 million would be provided by GOB. The
proceeds of the proposed credit would be on-lent by GOB to CPA at an interest
rate of not less than 14% per annum repayable in 20 years including four years
of grace under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, signing of which would be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The proposed onlending rate is in line with the current industrial lending
rate and, based on an estimated medium term inflation rate of about 11% per
annum, would result in a positive real rate of interest. The CPA would bear
the foreign exchange risk.  Approval of the Project Proforma 2/ by GOB would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01(b) of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
50.       CPA will be responsible for the execution of the proposed project
which would be implemented over a five-year period (1982 to 1987). The
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit and the appointment of the key
members of the PIU, namely a Senior Engineer as head of PIU, an Accountant
and Office Manager--as members--would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Section 5.01(d) of the draft Credit Agreement).
1/   Although the inflation rate in FY82 is expected to be around 15%, these
price contingencies are considered adequate because (i) local costs
associated with the project (including civil works) are not expected
to rise so rapidly as the general price level (consumer price index)
and (ii) the inflation rate is likely to slow down as a result of
Government's policy measures aimed at financial stabilization.
2/   An internal GOB document approval of which is necessary for the appoint-
ment of staff and the release of funds.



- 14 -
51.       CPA Organization and Staffing.  CPA is a financially autonomous
corporate entity. It is managed by a Board, comprising a Chairman and three
members, which reports to the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
The Chairman of the Board is the chief executive. There are 150 officers
and about 7,000 other employees. There is evidence on the basis of a number
of past studies carried out by consultants that CPA is overstaffed. Based on
these studies, CPA will carry out an assessment of its manpower requirements
and by December 31, 1983, implement a program, satisfactory to the Government
and IDA, for correcting staff imbalances (Section 3.04 of draft Project
Agreement).
52.       CPA Operations.  As noted in paragraph 31 above, ship waiting times
are high and there is need to improve cargo handling times.  To this end,
overaged equipment will be replaced and technical assistance will be provided
to develop a proper maintenance program and to train port operators and super-
visors. CPA has agreed to realize improved cargo handling rates by June 1,
1984 (Section 3.10 of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, CPA will
improve the ports electricity network, introduce a revised work shift arrange-
ment, and carry out a number of organizational changes in the operations and
maintenance departments (Sections 3.06, 3.07 and 3.09 of the draft Project
Agreement). The Government has agreed to develop and implement by June 30,
1983 a plan of action acceptable to IDA to bring down the dwell time of cargo
in the port area from the present 35 days to 25 days (Section 3.03 of the
draft Credit Development Agreement).
53.       CPA Finances.  CPA's financial position has been consistently sound
for several years. Substantial net operating revenues have been generated
as a result of traffic and tariff increases. Periodic tariff increases have
averaged about 20% per annum over the period FY77 to FY81. Implementation
of the recommendations of a consultants' study is underway which will result
in changes in CPA's tariff structure and accounting system, including the
compilation of a fixed asset register to be revalued periodically. These
recommendations would be implemented by CPA by June 30, 1984. CPA has agreed
to take the necessary measures, including tariff increases, in order for CPA
to generate sufficient funds to cover all its cash operating and maintenance
expenses and debt service charges and contribute not less than 40% towards
annual average capital expenditures (Section 4.05(a) of draft Project Agree-
ment). As a condition of credit effectiveness, an increase in port tari.fs
of 25 percent would be approved by the Borrower and made effective by CPA
(Section 5.01(c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).  In addition, CPA
agreed not to incur additional debt unless its net revenues are at least 1.5
times the projected debt service requirements and also not to make investments
in excess of US$2 million in any fiscal year.
Vacant Possession of the Land
54.       The area at the back of the proposed multipurpose berths, which
was under lease to four public sector agencies, had to be vacated and cleared
before the construction of the berths was scheduled to start. CPA has taken
vacant possession of seven acres and as a condition of effectiveness CPA would
have obtained vacant possession of all land abutting the multipurpose berth
site (Section 5.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
55.       Monitoring of project progress would be through:  (a) quarterly
progress reports to be submitted by the CPA to IDA and Government; (b)
maintenance of separate accounts of the financial transactions relating to
the project to be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to
IDA (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement); and (c) submission by CPA
of a project completion report within six months of the closing date of
the credit (Section 2.05(d) of the draft Project Agreement).
56.       To provide a basis for assessing efficient utilization of port
resources and timely action for improving port operations, CPA would collect
and compute each quarter operating efficiency indicators concerning:
(i) cargo handling rates for various main categories; (ii) dwell time of
cargo in port; (iii) ship turnaround and waiting times, and berth occupancy.
This would require systematic collection of data for each ship from its
arrival until departure, and recording them in an agreed manner. CPA would
start collecting and computing these efficiency indicators not later than
January 1, 1983 and, by June 1, 1984, realize cargo handling rate targets
aceptable to IDA (Section 3.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
Environmental Impact
57.       The proposed project is not expected to have any significant adverse
environmental impact on either the port or the city of Chittagong, since no
handling of any dirty or dusty cargo is envisaged. It is not expected that the
container movement would adversely affect the traffic conditions in the city,
as the transfer of full containers destined for the Dacca area would be largely
handled by inland waterways and railway, and the remainder choosing to move by
road would be able to bypass the city.
Procurement
58.       Contracts for the construction of the multipurpose berths and for
the major components of the backup facilities would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB) after prequalification of bidders,
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines; procurement of minor civil works
estimated to cost less than $1.0 million each, and not exceeding US$6 mil-
lion equivalent in the aggregate, would be through local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement of all cargo handling and other
equipment would be made through ICB. A preference of 15% of the c.i.f. cost
or the customs duty and taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed in bid
evaluation in the case of locally manufactured goods; qualified domestic
contractors would be granted a 7.5% preference. Documents for all contracts
estimated to cost above US$200,000 for civil works and US$50,000 for equipment
and other goods would be sent to IDA for review before bids are invited.



- 16 -
Disbursements
59.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed over five
years as follows:
I. Civil Works
(a)  Berth structures                   56% of total cost
(b) Back-up facilities,
maintenance facilities,            31% of total cost
II.  Equipment                              100% of foreign expenditure
if imported
100% of ex-factory cost
if locally manufactured
65% of total cost if
procured locally
other than ex-factory
III. Technical Assistance and
Engineering Services                   100% of total cost
IV. Unallocated
Project Benefits
60.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the proposed project is esti-
mated at 23%. Benefits arise mainly from the savings resulting from reduced
ship turnaround time and the avoided cost of additional general cargo berths
construction, which will be rendered unnecessary because of increased efficiency
in handling. Possible savings !ue to reduced cargo handling costs have not
been taken into account.  The ERR would fall to 12% if project costs are 15%
higher and benefits 15% lower.
Project Risks
61.       The risks associated with the project are not expected to be greater
than those found in similar projects. The growth in general cargo has been
conservatively assumed. Although experience of other ports in the region
strongly points to a rapid rise in container traffic, it is conceivable,
though not probable, that at Chittagong the growth might not materialize as
expected. In the unlikely event of such a development, the signs of the
unfavorable trend would be evident during the early period when the interim
container facility is in operation (see paragraph 46), and there would be
sufficient time to review the situation and to postpone or drop the procure-
ment of the container handling equipment for multipurpose berths and to
acquire instead equipment suitable for general cargo, for which the new
berths would then be used. The layout of the backup facilities is flexible
enough to make it possible to effect such a changeover.



- 17 -
PART V - INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and Chittagong Port Authority and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of credit effectiveness of the proposed
credit would be: (i) the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and CPA (paragraph 49); (ii) GOB approval of the Project Proforma
(paragraph 49); (iii) the establishment of the Project Implementation Unit and
appointment of key staff (paragraph 50); (iv) approval of 25% increase in
tariffs (paragraph 53); and (v) vacant possession of the rest of the land
abutting the multipurpose berth site (paragraph 54).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 26, 1982



-18-
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. lOM.)                                                      -  HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
TOTAL             144.0                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOHE                 MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       97.3               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    30.0        50.0       90.0*              232.3                    1136.1
ENERGY CONSUJMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          ..        32.0|e    40.8               499.4                     1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0       68117.0   88934.0*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5.1           7.6       10.8                17.3                      40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        148.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         338.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       371.5        473.0     617.6               153.6                      373.1
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9         702.2     888.6               360.3                     2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3         46.3      43.5                37.4                       39.8
15-64 YRS.                          52.5         51.0      53.9                59.2                      56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2          2.7       2.6                 3.5                        3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          2.4        3.0                2.1                        2.3
URBAN                               3.6          6.3       6.8                 3.4                        3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       49.2        47.6       43.5                27.7                      29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.5         19.9       15.7                10.2                       7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5          3.1        2.8                 2.5                       1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       429.5    1143.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       8.9                20.4                      44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          106.0        101.0      88.0               107.1                      123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    85.0         85.0      91.0                98.6                     112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         43.0      58.5                56.9                      62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0          9.0       9.0                14.2                       19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      24.9         23.5       18.7               14.6                        4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.6          44.9      48.8                57.7                      64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       153.0      130.0               89.1                       50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         45.0      53.0                30.1                      45.9
URBAN                                ..         13.0      15.0                65.8                      68.0
RURAL                                *-         47.0      55.0                20.1                      34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-          6.0       5.0                17.6                      53.4
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.0                71.0                      71.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                4.8                      42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..       8427.2/c  8775.0              3857.7                    4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      91872.9   56876.6              6411.8                    2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..      6610.0/d  4402.0              1132.8                     588.5
URBAN                                *-           *-     637.6               322.3                     579.6                                   a
RURAL                                ..           ..   23754.3              5600.5                    1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE 'SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.9/e     5.9
URBAN                                ..          6.17/e    6.1
RURAL                                            5 5.97'   5.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          3.0/c
RURAL                                 ..          ..        ..



-19-
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESP - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                   MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                 ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  47.0         52.0       72.0                85.9                      99.8
MALE                   66.0         68.0      103.0                94.4                     100.6
FEMALE                 26.0         34.0       40.0                64.5                      98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    8.0         19.0       22.0                38.0/aa                   53.5
MALE                   14.0         29.0       32.0                34.6/as;                  58.4
FEMALE                  1.0          8.0       11.0                18.0/7as                  48.6
VoCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   1.0             1.0        1.0                  3.8                      21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                ..         49.0       44.0                32.8                       34.2
SECONDARY                              ..         26.0      24.0                 19.9                      31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          21.6/f       23.0       26.0                52.8                       86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ,,          0.4        0.4                 1.7                      12.7
RADIO KECEIVERS PER THoUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          6.0        6.0                35.3                     174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..           ..        0.4                 3.7                      50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEKEST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POFULAT1ON                      ..           .,        4.3                 14.6                    106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         ..                 3.4                       4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LANOE FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19251.6         23611.0   31390.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     15.2         16.6       17.4                29.3                      37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.8          85.9       74.0                69.8                      50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3           3.5      11.0                 14.1                      21.9
PARTlC0PATION RATE (PEKCENT)
TOTAL                                  36.0         34.7       35.3                39.7                      40.2
MALE                                   58.7         55.9       56.5                51.5                      49.8
FEMALE                                 11.4         11.9       12.7                23.3                      31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY KATIO                 1.3          1.4        1.3                  1.1                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
KECEIVED BY
H1lHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/g          16.7/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5/g          42.3/h    38.0/i
OWREST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/R           7.9/h     8.0/i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9_           19.6T7.h
POVERTY TARGER GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSUOLUTE POVEKTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     139.0                134.1                     248.6
RURAL                                 ..      .      .      111.0               111.6                     193.7
EUSIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URbAN                                 ..           ..         ..                   ..                     249.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..                   ..                     234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEETY INCOME LEVEL (PERLENT)
L"bAN                                 ..            ..      86.0                 41.7                      21.2
RLRAL                                  ..           ..      86.1                 51.7                      32.2
Not ava-Uable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages tr  adh ind-cator are popolation-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
-"Eg the indicator- depends on availability of data and is not unoifrm.
Iad h     -onloded Si total only.
/b   Unless oth-e-wse noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; foe 1970, betwn 1969
and 1971; and toe Most Recent ERtimate, between 1976 and 1979.
It   neg4Ltered, not alU pr-cticon-  in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/i 1962; /8 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /i Estimated percent of national income.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates which is
shown in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $120 (at 1978-80 prices) and
90199 thousand.
May, 1981



-20-
Paz. 3
DHPIN9ITIDNS 0F SDCIAL INI9ICATORS
N.tetee   Although the date are draw  from  sore   eealy judged the most outboritetiV.eand raliobie. it should elar be  Dctad that they  aY not be inter-
nationlly  ceparobe bars. ofthe lack,of  .candardieed deinitine  end c.nept oI        dby different oo    Irtstnolecigthe date.  Tedt  un o.
thelm     .. usful to deacibe order  of  aitude, Iniaetnd          ds  and chereoteeeTer-tmajrtiffrene,beteencontres
The ree -oa   otp  are Cl) cheancoty gropof theebjo   outy  u   Daottayn gooc dichf.rentwbt.a..greee.ccs  ta   h   ceo   ru
sneinculcuel afinitle)    Gothe rferenc  grouI p data the avs8sea are POPulation weighted enicbmatit  en  for eachind itf ed shown eel  eke.
maorty ef the countries in e group h.s dat ne fethat idicater.  Since the  evrgof countrises amon  the Iniod eors. depends o  the a-alebilit  of date
end is non uniforn, cauton most be neencised inrelaning avera ges of onItdcnr  oance.  Thee.ear.re So  are rely usefuL  Iv coparing tevl o
ens indlotor at e  la  amae  the country and rsfer...co groupa..           .   -i-- .o.h                                                                 h   .I.
LANDI cREA (thousan.d sq.he.)                                                                      oueinp Heca.a      oa.  ra.edrrt-Pplre    tnt
To..tet r-Tota  surfootn er e omrisicg land ares and  Wende catrer.                                rben nd trot) divided by thie   eeenvanmbro  hopc t beds
far croPs, Pastures, earkt and kitchen gerdene or no lie fatn-90  aa.ailicac in cnters .d HopiVtal  ore1 estbind                                     tapI      asnl   tfe
GNPy PtR CAPITA 1UJS$) - itNP per ospica estimates etore mre   ros   a-dt  b                             care ar I-c Phcouded.  Hotebliholsital. P mvdi.  rincP-lyd health
cultedby  smaconersoc   et oda  World Sorb Atlas (1977-79 baIs)   90                     n   eia   etesnrpraetyeefe   yapyiin(rtb
1970.an  197  dne.                de I%ra                                                                          ti -dd sIisan..ure   md Ife  err.)poito,b effe   e-aIMIId  hn a-
cStXfT CONSUMPtTION PtR CAPITA - Anulonuploooo erileag (cl                                           clpyssubnhspal dmuudsiO  propal/gemeet hepItals.,
an   ignite, perlu,ntrlgendhro, nuolear and gonheTaae-                                         and r-re  hespita1  local en rura  hosPitals " and ial and materity
tr Icty) in k          Iorm    f coal equivalent yen capita; 1960, 1970.tad 11979                 cetr.Seiledhsiasaeinoluded aely aeden tonal.
dat.                                                                                            Adeisis ne per     eico Ia  -Tta  ece   famaian   ndshre
I.ti;   Mi  ics                                               ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~from hosPitals divided by the number of beds.
Toalpeuat yc id-sa  (thoosoo ds) - A. of July 1; 196f, 1970, aod 1979                       HOtISIJOC
data.                                                                                    A er...  ies ofoHo. Iehldfern    enhehod- cei.  ub.     end, e
difeetdfnnnsouraaasma  afat coParability of dat                                                 adtheAirdanmis              ordro  egrmyo  may. mae I be ialdd 1
am.eng     . ocanis  190, 1970, end 1979 data.                                                  cbs tasheid i for        A  statistical purpoeaiY
Ponulation Prletion                                                                              vrg  nmetfreea   a  ro 9oal   ra.an   ua     Aeaemw
Pnuoinin rea I00  - Curren   pouaion yroJertion   r   ae   n aebra   araeynra  it.8alt  rban,tan   arat  enoeid roeenao
taolppuato  by aencd sa  ad their _ontolity and fetiiyoaes                                     eefig.  epP-       vey    clelms   mldenpemmm  stucurs.                    a
yroci-n paremetene fI ornatality rates compriese of three l1_ela ae.        -uccuidpre
ing11en Pifs eap ctan  t bir th icoreeing with  o_ntry    a   aiaman                         cest iletiiv(ecn   fdnlss      oa.abn   a   ua
level, endfemale lif  enyonanY atabili.sn  at 77.5 y-'ears. h ma pae                  Cnenmtdwllings wi.th elcriiy  m110g  riras  ep1nng
macens for fertility rate also hav  threelelsaumn  det                   .-neToa,  re,adrrldetlg   epciey
fetIt n    y eJ.ri   to i-ncoe  leve  end pest f_itY planning performac..                    ftt1    bn,ed-ld l.
Stech onutry I  then assigned one of rhase elan rsbir_tions of mernt.Ity                  fiAI
adfetlitY trends for prrJati-n purpe..ee.                                                CAdiee   oot tRTIO         s
Ittlonvotaano   -            tIn ts acimey Populteian there iZs no  rowth ainn                 rmr   oei    oa.ml  mAft        eante.ml   i                            l
th irth raet  is squatnoth  death rate, and also tha age  trutr.a.n.tsao   ltaane   b   rmr   ee  a   ecnae   fraen
males... ontasa.  Thia is achieved only after fertility eatee decline to                         rmr   colaepyltoa   aral   eldeaide   gd61
th rplacement level of unit net rapradoonion rate, char each ge..ratiar                      Years bun edjatd frn different length. of primar  edcaim ge
of   mnrePl.... irealf  -toaLy.  The  tstaionary popclnien sias  ens..autaias with  oie setaooamnarme  ma                                             -noe  1Sf penear
aeimtad o  the basis of the projscted cher..oteitica of the ynpolatian                        since. cams ppi1e arc belwrabv  tefiatschoolagae.
inthe Yeor 2101, and the race of deline at fercility race to replace-Seodrehel-ta,mlendf s- aptdsahvsscnay
Y. tlvl                                                                                           dcainrqie  ec lestf neyar                  of ayrcve  prSear  imotenaryo
Year  tatioary oculcrao isreached - The year when stationary popolation                   preide   general,roaisl  entahrcaiiginroiafo   ei
simshashos  nec bd.                                                                       Pealyof12V 1ieas  fa e Sarepadeo  corcserignral
Pe ke.he  - Mid-yaon popua.tic Per s-quare hIa..cero  (lId hec,are.) of                   Vocational enrollmentleratoecooy)-Vanm.litiuo
total are; 1960, 1970 and 19 7 9 daa                                                           inldenoai,inutia,o                        ote  prgr  etob- oprtelded
Per s. An  aenrulcral and    CamPuied as abov  ton agricultural land                    ently ortasdeprit.jmets of  enndryimeitttna
only; 1960  190ad17   aa                                                                       oi-tooha  ratio - entmar.  adscnay-Ttl  naet   noldi
Population Me itiru c   (neI     c  -CIldren (f-l. y...a). corking-age  115-                       primary and ..o....ry  aasdivddb    reeo  ecesI  h
lu yars , aodretired  7659 yersat   ovr)m  pecatoe  omid-year popo-                          rorbeepending levels
lotion; 1960, 1970  cad-60  1670ed 799data.                                                    Adstn  p.ltrcyrtaj frerontel    - Licprate adult  (abl  to redanwie
Po.oE. lori   act  -ae(ecn) - coca  - Annua  gro-i  rates of totl  id                         aC s   aprecaTo   oalautyptla                        ge   5yNs  o   vr
yat       T ylioo   c 950-60, 1960-70  . end 1970-79.
C-ltlons fu  190-60  h191-V)  And  90-9                                                        Paa..eMser Cars (yre  thousand  ouai)- Puasseger cars np            ts.mcr
Crud  Siri.  ae(e t    housand)6    - Anua  lIre births pen tho.....d of elf-year                nessaigls  te   ihremom   nldeablacs   ere   n
populacior; 1960. ~ 19h.ad 1979 date                                                      miitary veiole
Crd   et   ae(oar choumard) - AnnualIdeaths per thousan.ds of mid-yuan                Radio Receives.. ra  coend orltOl-Altpso   eevr   o   ah
Gpopulation; 1960, 1970. and 19.79 dana                                                          braIse  ognra   ulc If husn.fpneatm.scue  en- i
c.ilin    ae;u      lyfv-eraeae   nigi   90  190  and 199.                                      motcutre  ehelahd licesig
fmlylei-Aco_ntfre. Annual (thousands) I- Annual nuber. of aceen                       VRciee(e  boadnetlana'-TVrcier   o   re ntt
af bith-oonnrolU deio-soder au.pioss ofI       roaf .  al.ptnigprgam                          aar0ubi  prthuan   otlniOn ,L eolde  urnli-aesmd TV. receve
all married come   in  . same age gropr                                                  oultion o                 -fll Mgnea  interes   n soypa"  dfle d asapeidia
Id-b.-ing  g. (1,-44                                             ..-tr~~~~oubinaion dentd prmiyrrrodiggnalae.IIaosdrd
Indaof Fod  rodunio  carCeote l9697lel0l    Indn o  pene pta anual fle   Annal  tneaawotonrCanne ntytar -gaad onthemembr o
prdunin.f.l foo .o.ediim.   Prdoinsouesse   n   edan                                  ihn   odfning cbs -yao             d inc lugadtiaon      thc Onra-m ia
instead ofsugar) chch are edileband.coia-odnurn-ncj,(eng.ooffda an
rAN ar    ONoda)   Agreao  routin=feah  onty  sboedo                                       lAPtP.C
nationf .d avrdee oroduoa   dprice wegts6971-100    1971_ and 1979dana.                       Tota  lborPrs  noead)-  onnleiatv  peeoa  lecluid.r
eag eqIvlea f!, nt  fo   upieaalbei  country par capita                                 oveig   otlo   of al          tge    eiiin   n  aiu   ocou   n
pen day.  droilable supplies compnisadonasio prdcio,T"rn   na                        o   opaal;190   97   n   97daa
quandcitlaedl.odpoaso,adtsnef   irluin    aur-AnctuA--  Annett                                                      - Labo   foreA10 farmting, foesryhntngan
visyan b-        lb condin Conoirorn.o.... maparanure,bdynigS.g                              tndkasnny   1 dnen int) - h lao  frel c ema          cntu tio.  "oAnfacurin
hoceebold level; 1961-05, 1970, ht. and 1-5. 77 7 data.9 dt.                       Tt197ado 97b       dre
usc supply ci food per day.  net supply of food Ia fetitod as ab~~ove   he-Pativit  nones .are   doe a  am tonal,.11 mote, an   Femll_ lobr  ortea
puld pry nn,ofA ho hIb:,P.i- goane    . ehud ha tina.  rti.Teescd                               lc inc  gemenetIotsof  b  popnati...n  and long tim. ten..
uIs aelnrcatoco   5coeo   oc  pro..isin orI3g..Pf                                           e   anere  r   ralaioa   oucs
Isl oo   uvy;16-5,17  nd17  dt.n   the coral. labor force. d17   ..
Pe      -dpt  cccinrfuolv from   tinal andcls-Poarspl f.z   food. de-(e ..t-~.:   ..  I rfr.
rived  frmcin       l ndhpulthsfinhgrame par day; 1961-6nte1970bandf1077.d1r60 ot970eeneIs979ndTtDt
Chl   ece1A    onoiytt  (nor t               tou Pend t-lAnua   bdyoh   a  t.ihoua   in   1P -renteepofrivate Cocosf Ihoth it csh r.          kn)-ian        ve.    yrihs
ac        i grup t1-   y fPa,  o Pr i tren, On d tie -ace grup  formoat dfva_piorout          5  ncn.  ihe   0  ecn,pore   0pato.ed  ore    l prcn
tries doca deived Ccuo 9lif  rolr    90 11970 ed  97  dta                               ofd hocehord.it,-         n  ...   ..n..fItl                      M       90
lif  losor Yno fn rth     i ( (r-re  - Pree  umbe- r.of  rr  olife  Fremapitc                 97e following estimtsaevr   pyoioemaue  o   oet   ees
ort birth  1960       PI,0 ady 197) data.                                                      endshulfb idarrI.dwitbctedeablcuton
hocceeo SafeOntoc   ntororof coplaion-h  ccc.uva,  odoco USDA-                           ctririontY      foqoore I:  dm  tlm   dsoto  oc-roo  cr00b          es  c
her. .. of pep1  (total  ura,  n  ru.I ol) w-ith-  dy.dp V raonle soafsn                                     f         _7-            :p  ~tn   folse
eecertoaorV" thrlrrh,:, tir  poplatoa    CorurbisocdaoopUblc                                osronl income9l  of th  counry.f lrb.   plevelis oderived from  therua
fonoi   r  tcporicon      orecntor2f  er.  r.     osemp  elvefut   duaatrfrhihrnoroflvIgi  ubnAra
reasonable cr0055 oould inpl1~~~th thodrr. rho.oeet d or macer  of  the Thiorhod   oEd rural  ppercofpultn(ronsdua)whaetbcu
Dumbr  of peopleti (total  uror.odrua)  eve  bIcoes  isoaln
th  ollo iI=en  dspeo,   lt         dihu    Y;reormoor, of 7 hoerd scorer.tfoooINCandEccISDanaBDvisio
Ubr     i- icraltrotne.     l,,,ti.S r-;I
ecnor qualified from   atirn f   rbol a  umierety  lvo
PH ruLaro  rr19s60Prso-  oulr    divice.d by 7 duahar o-l preottoing,P.-                                                                         P--t.         p.r.t4
mLe andfeal g..Y   roduane 5. oues   rcia  oorees  end           lif aaitnnrsaa.POET  TRE  GOP



Paige 4
-21-
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       91.5 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$120 (FY81)
Amount              Average Annual Increase CX)          Share of GOP at Market Prices (7.)
(million US$            (in constant FY75 prices)                   (in current prices)
in current prices)
Indicator                                        FY81               FYb0-70   FY70-75   FY75-81          FYbO       FY70       FY75      FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                         11,989                4.0       -0.6         6.0         100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture /a                                   6,423                3.1       -1.3        4.3           59.9       56.9       62.5      53.6
Industry /a                                      1,680                7.9       -3.2        6.0            7.7        9.6       11.3      14.0
Services 7a                                      3,887                4.9        3.3        8.8           30.1       30.0       26.2      32.4
Consumption                                       11,701                4.4       -0.7         5.7          92.4       92.8       99.1      97.6
Gross domestic investment                          2,064               10.9      -10.9       20.2            6.9       11.3        8.1      17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                               859                0.8      -11.7         5.7          10.0        8.3        3.2        7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                             2,635                8.8      -12.0        3.6            9.3       12.5       10.4      22.0
Gross national savings                               639               26.5      -17.7       -8.4            0.9        6.1        1.0       5.3
Amount                                                   Composition of Merchandise Trade (T)
(million US$                                                         (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY81                                                   FY73      FY75      FY80       FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                  710.8                                                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                         165.2                                                  40.4      29.6      24.3      23.2
Manufactures                                       545.6                                                  59.6      70.4      75.7      76.8
Merchandise imports                                2,524.0                                                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                               342.4                                                  44.1      41.5      29.1      13.6
Petroleum                                          490.1                                                   3.2      11.1      15.7      19.4
Machinery & equipment                              580.0                                                  13.8       9.6      20.0      23.0
Other                                            1,111.5                                                  38.9      37.8      35.1      44.0
FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79        FY80       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                                  140.6       240.5       183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      249.2      264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                     '  7.9661      8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                            103.7        123.5      107.1      111.8      127.7      167.5      200.9       178.6
Import price index                                            152.8       194.8       186.2      183.1      179.4      218.0      250.3      283.9
Terms of trade index                                           67.9         63.4       57.5       61.1       71.2       76.8       80.3       62.9
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY73      FY75      FY77    FY80       FY81
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                             5.0       5.4     9.5       10.6      12.0
Current expenditure                                                         6.5       4.5      7.8       7.8       7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit ()                                         -1.5      +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
'apital expenditure                                                         8.8       3.1     9.5       13.5      12.1
Foreign financing                                                           7.1       2.4      6.0       8.3       7.7
FY60-70    FY70-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (I)                                                            4.2        -0.7        5.8          7.9
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                                 1.5        -3.3        3.0          5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
.    not available
.   not applicable
/a At market prices.
79 Raw jute, tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



Annex I
-22-                                                        Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                                     Projected
FY74       FY75        FY76       FY77        FY78       FY79        FY80       FY81          FY82        FY83
Net exports of goods                                   -551     -1,050        -885       -454        -859        -946    -1,645      -1,813        -1,780      -1,938
Exports of goods                                      374        352         381        411         490        610         727        711           640         732
Imports of goods                                    -925       1,402    -1,266         -865     -1,349      -1,556    -2,372    -2,524           -2,420    -2,670
Net exports of services                                 -21          12        -24         -29        -32         -27          3          11           -70       -120
Workers  remittances                                     19          34         62          81        113         143        210         377           400        450
Current account balance                                -553    -1,004         -847       -402        -778       -830    -1,432       -1,425        -1,450      -1,608
Direct private investment                                ..          ..         ..          ..          ..         ..          ..         ..
MLT loans (net)                                         276         498        498         238        398         420        581         481           501
Grants & grant-like flows                               174         382        245         265        393         553        591         616           650    -1,608
Other capital flows (net)                                45         275         52         -20        -38         -19        141         304           199
Change in reserves (- - increase)                        58       -151          53        -81          25       -124         119          24           100        -
International reserves (end of period)                  115        266         213        294         269        393         274        250           150         150
Reserves as months of imports of next year             0.98       2.52        2.95       2.62        2.07        1.99       1.30       1.24          0.67        0.63
Actual
FY74        FY75         FY76         FY77        FY78         FY79         FY80        FY81
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                       173.8       382.3        244.7       264.8        392.6        553.2       590.8        616.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                      287.4       518.9        563.5       268.3        435.3        476.8       631.4        531.0
Concessional                                       201.4        458.4       533.0        244.1        400.8       456.4        601.6        509.6
Bilateral                                        150.4        342.8       389.9        144.0        261.9       212.6        272.7       255.2
IDA                                               51.0        112.5       127.8         86.1         88.2       152.5        152.1       170.9
Other multilateral                                 -            3.1         15.3        14.1         50.7        91.3        176.9         83.4
Non-concessional                                    86.0         60.4         30.4        24.1         34.5         20.4        29.8         21.4
Official export credits                           40.6         45.2         16.5         5.6          1.7          3.3        16.8          2.0
IBRD
Other multilateral                                 5.4          0.3          1.1         0.5          0.5          0.1         0.3          0.8
Private                                           40.0         14.9         12.8        18.0         32.3         17.0        12.7         18.6
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period) 492.8            1,352.6      1,795.9     2,051.5      2,569.2     2,949.2      3,215.6      3,584.8
Official                                           383.3      1,232.8     1,689.0      1,939.8      2,435.6     2,808.3      3,068.8      3,462.1
IBRD                                               -           54.9        54.9         54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9         54.9
IDA                                              105.6       255.3        379.8        465.9       554.2        706.7        858.8     1,028.5
Other                                            222.8        922.6     1,254.3      1,419.0     1,826.5      2,046.7      2,155.1     2,378.7
Private                                            109.5        119.8        106.9       111.6        133.6       140.9        146.8        122.7
Undisbursed Debt                                     580.8      1,019.4        947.5     1,015.8      1,335.4     1,659.1      1,716.7      2,068.4
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                            18.0 -      31.3         87.4         58.5        69.2         95.1         93.7        92.0
Interest                                             7.3         10.1        21.9         28.4         32.1        38.1         43.3         42.0
Payments as % of export earnings                        4.8         8.9         22.9         14.2        14.1         15.6         12.9        12.9
Payments as X of GNP                                    0.2         0.2          1.2          0.9         0.8          1.0          0.8         0.7
Average interest rate on new loans (Z)                  3.2          2.0         1.7          1.6          1.5         1.4          1.4          1.6
Official                                              2.9         2.0          1.6          1.5         1.3          1.4          1.2         1.5
Private                                               5.1         2.3          7.8         6.4          6.2          6.1         6.9          7.2
Average maturity of new loans (years)                  26.1        35.5         41.6         40.1        37.7         35.9         33.6        35.9
Official                                            28.3         35.8         42.2        40.8         38.6         36.3        34.2         36.2
Private                                             13.3         15.3         11.3        11.0          9.5         14.8        19.3         18.5
BANY GROUP EXPOSURE (2 )
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                      -           4.0          3.0          2.6         2.1          1.8          1.7         1.5
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements
IBRD debt service/total debt service                    -           -            1.8          5.6         4.8          4.1          3.7         4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                     21.4         18.8         21.1        22.7         21.6         24.0        26.7         28.6
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements            17.7        21.7         22.7         32.1        20.3         32.0        24.0         32.1
IDA debt service/total debt service                     1.3         3.1          2.5          5.3         5.4          4.6          6.0         7.3
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY81
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (2)
Maturities due within 5 years                                            13.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                           36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                            1.6
. = not available.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



- 23 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                             US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                   Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 21 credits fully disbursed                      54.90  684.32       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                        -     14.00      0.68
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)             -     25.00      2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                        -      7.50      1.00
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II               -     20.00      6.80
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                 -     62.00      3.53
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                          -     15.00      4.08
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                  -     27.00    13.45
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                -     22.00      8.34
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -         12.00      4.24
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                   -     16.00      6.44
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank              -     25.00      3.90
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                   -     16.00      3.14
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                   -     21.00    12.25
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research              -     10.00      3.86
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II           -      5.00      2.42
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                -     21.00    14.17
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                -     25.00    19.41
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II             -      7.00      3.72
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research               -      6.00      2.25
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control          -     19.00    14.33
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III            -     10.00      5.80
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -      6.00      5.20
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                 -     25.00    21.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II  -         32.00    29.12
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                    -     28.00    27.60
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                     -     22.00    11.96
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 24 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                        US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                 -       25.00    23.21
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                       -       10.00      8.89
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII              -       50.00      2.84
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                    -       37.00    21.94
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II    -           20.00    19.39
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -       29.00    28.84
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                -       20.00    16.22
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation            -       11.00    10.32
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II             -       25.00      1.74
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -       40.00    37.25
1065   1981   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III          -       35.00    34.70
1071   1981   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX                -       65.00    17.70
1091   1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development         -       85.00    72.20
1096   1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                      -        25.00    20.20
1117   1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II         -       50.00    49.90
1124   1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV           -       16.00    16.00
1140   1981   Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                    -       18.00    18.00
1147   1981   Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit               -       40.00    40.00
1184/b 1982   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood
Control II                    -       27.00    27.00
1194   1982   Bangladesh   Imports Program X                 -      100.00   100.00
1204/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer    -           15.00    15.00
12057   1982   Bangladesh   Textile Industry Rehabili-
tation                       -        30.00    30.00
1215/b 1982   Bangladesh   Extension and Research II         -       27.00    27.00
Total                                                54.90  1,982.82   869.80
of which has been repaid                             -         0.40     -
Total now outstanding                                54.90  1,982.42   869.80
Amount sold                                           0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  1,982.42
Total undisbursed                                              869.80   869.80
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
__   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
- 25 -                      Page 3
/a
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding          Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                            DFC                 -      1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -           -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65     -       0.65
/a   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                 Tannery           2.1       .2     2.3
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 26 -                      Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project closed on December 31, 1981. The Bangladesh Agricultural
Corporation (BADC), the project lead agency, has been requested to initiate
the preparation of the PCR. It has been agreed that disbursements will con-
tinue through April 30, 1982 against items contracted prior to December 31,
1981.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975;  Effective Date:  September 30, 1975;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining the
number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original project.
Civil works in the original project area are completed. About 735 low lift
pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about 30,000 acres. How-
ever, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints continue to inhibit full
utilization of existing irrigation facilities. They are, however, improving.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with about 60 percent of works completed. Construction contracts for remaining
structures were awarded by WDB in early 1981. Works on embankments, a major
project component, have not started. The current project cost estimates prep-
ared by WDB are about 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. WDB has
been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular regard
to the requirements for the embankments, which are likely to be substantially
reduced. Construction works for the hatchery complex, training hostel and
staff quarters related to the fisheries component are expected to be completed
by April 1982. Fish seed production on a commercial basis has started in 1981
and will reach full capacity in 1982.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily with project management much improved. The supply of irrigation
equipment and inputs is now satisfactory and the rural works program is making
good physical progress. However, contract supervision and maintenance of com-
pleted works need improvement. GOB has requested that the credit closing date
be extended by one year to allow full completion of components which were
initially delayed.



ANNEX II
- 27 -                      Page 5
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule. Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification for the closure dam
and embankments, the only remaining major works, has been done. The design
for the works produced by the consultants is much more sophisticated than
envisaged at appraisal. Though revised cost estimates are not available
to IDA, it is estimated that the cost overrun on this component could be
substantial.  BWDB has been asked to prepare alternative design proposals.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The project continues to make satisfactory progress; all procurement
has been completed and efforts are being made to speed up the civil works
program to ensure completion before credit closure at June 30, 1982. Although
the extension service is now well structured and better disciplined, the
methodology needs continued improvement. Good extension/research linkages
have been established; the research program now places more emphasis on
off-station work aimed at finding practical solutions to farmer problems.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Staff housing component may be scaled down.



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
project's 145,000 ton procurement storage component is now progressing satis-
factorily, but the storage rehabilitation and relief storage programs have
been taken up only recently.  Quality control operations are yet to be improved,
and paddy dryers still need to be procured. Consultants have been engaged for
engineering, quality control and paddy drying; and the pilot marketing project
is doing well at the Muktagacha Thana Central Cooperative Association, the
first one to participate in the project. The project is now anticipated to be
completed by December 31, 1982, six months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Project is making satisfactory progress. The BARC headquarters
building is complete and fully operational. BARI station developments are
almost complete at Jessore and Janalpur, but Hathazari is behind schedule.
The Research Grant Scheme is operating well and supports 40 research sub-
projects in eleven institutes. An evaluation and monitoring system has been
inaugurated. The foreign training component finances 31 PhD students at 15
universities. All Project funds fully committed.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
After a slow start, construction of civil works in the central
hatchery complex has commenced in January 1982. It is hoped that the imple-
mentation delays can be made up at least partially and that the central
hatchery will go into operation by June 1983. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by Tk 26 million (23%). Such increase will necessi-
tate an additional government input of Tk 18 million. IDA's share of the
increase can be absorbed within the Credit amount because of Taka devaluation
of about 19% since appraisal.



ANNEX II
- 29 -                      Page 7
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has been completed on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the
remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs, the Phase I
sales program, were delivered in October 1980. Orders have also been placed
for the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase has begun with about
1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project Action Plan has also been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress is satisfactory. The Project Director and all key
personnel are in post. The PTU consultant was appointed and visited the areas
in July 1981. It has been agreed that SPARRSO (formerly Bangladesh Landset
Program) should undertake the five year Remote Sensing Program and a draft
scheme has been prepared; Landset imagery tapes obtained in February will be
processed shortly; aerial photography was recently completed.
Cr. No. 1140 Hand Tubewells Project: US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project staff are in place and tendering procedures for raw materials
to fabricate 90,000 tubewells are complete. However, procurement procedures
are being held up by inadequate budgetary allocations. A minimum of six months
lead time is required for procurement and local fabrication, and delays could
affect tubewell availability and sales in the 1982/83 boro season. Price
parity between BADC carry-over stocks and project tubewells is yet to be
established. Planning Commission has been alerted to both of these problems.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit for investments
in minor irrigation and other agricultural development. The privatization of
shallow tubewell sales has not made much progress, primarily due to the price
differential between public sector and private sector sales and the reluctance
of government to issue import licenses to private dealers. Appointment of
consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation agency, is yet to
be made.



ANNEX II
-30-                        Page 8
Cr. No. 1184  Second Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1215 Second Extension and Research Project: US$27 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant has been
mechanically completed. Despite continuing minor commissioning problems,
production of urea was started in December 1981, about six months later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total project costs
are likely to be close to that approved at the time of IDA supplementary
financing but with an increase in foreign exchange requirement of about
US$12 million.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The institutional upgrading program instituted under the cred-t is
continuing with improvement in BSB's operations, especially in the areas of
loan accounting and staff training. Areas of operational weakness, partic-
ularly project appraisal and loan collections are receiving close GOB/IDA
supervision.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional



ANNEX II
- 31 -                      Page 9
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
Implementation of action programs undertaken under this and preceding
import program credits are proceeding satisfactorily, although GOB has yet to
make the full FY81 infusions of equity agreed for public sector units in the
Jute and Textile Sectors. This situation will be monitored by forthcoming
mission to Bangladesh. As of March 31, 1982 the credit has been fully commit-
ted, while disbursements were US$47.2 million. Allowing for processing of pay-
ments in the pipeline, the credit should be fully disbursed within the next few
months.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
As of March 31, 1982 US$23.26 million had been disbursed. The credit
was closed on MIarch 31, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipeline will
continue.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The credit became effective on January 15, 1982. The credit com-
ponents of the project are moving well, particularly in the area of small-
medium sized projects. Progress is also satisfactory on the technical and
marketing service components of the technical assistance elements of the
project.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                     Page lO
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Progress on implementing ongoing action program requirements
continue satisfactorily albeit somewhat behind schedule. During FY81,
GOB has initiated a number of the policy changes required under the credit,
particularly in the areas of agriculture/irrigation policy.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This project continues IDA-s involvement with BSB initiated under
Cr. 632-BD. Institutional upgrading programs initiated under that credit
are being continued and GOB/IDA are monitoring carefully BSBs operation
in the areas of loan recoveries and project appraisals. Action is also
underway to strengthen BSBs sectoral review capabilities.
Cr. No. 1194 Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of January 26,
1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982.
Cr. No. 1204 Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1205  Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$30.0 Million Credit
of February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is nearing completion. All buildings in the three
new ATIs have been completed and only minor works, for which contracts have
been let, remain. Of the four existing ATIs, construction and renovation
are virtually complete. As a result of student strikes in 1981 no first year
students were enrolled and the institutions are currently operating at only
about 50% capacity. Staffing is adequate and most have received in-service
training under the project. The AMTI course has been successful and an
extension of three years is now under consideration. RMB is closely super-
vising the project and GOB have been asked to ensure that all taka funds
necessary for completion of the project by June 30, 1982 will be provided.



ANNEX II
- 33 -                      Page 11
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date:  November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is encountering major problems in the areas of manage-
ment and institution building. The Project Implementation Unit is not opera-
ting well, largely as a result of the lack of a full-time Project Director,
and also because the Project Manager is a consultant to the Government
and therefore lacks financial authority. The functions of other PIU staff
are still not clearly defined, and the Chie~f Technical Adviser of the ILO
technical assistance team has recently resigned.
The National Council for Skill Development and Training has not
functioned well since its inception, having met only once in two years.
The various sub-committees have also only met irregularly. The appointment
of staff for the Secretariat is lagging considerably behind schedule, and
as yet, no site has been acquired for the headquarters building.
The In-Plant and Instructor Training Programs are progressing,
but at a slower than planned rate because of difficulties in financing the
recurrent costs. The Revolving Fund established to facilitate this process
has not been replenished. Tenders have been called for the construction of
the five new Technical Training Centers, but the program is still about 18
months delayed. As a result of the February/March supervision, the Govern-
ment has been advised that quick actions were needed to solve these problems.
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project was declared effective on December 1, 1980. Activities
planned for the first year (1981), particularly the establishment of the
project implementation infrastructure, staff training, base line evaluation,
materials production and distribution (girls uniforms and textbooks), and
the formation of the Directorate of Primary and Mass Education, Local Educa-
tion Authorities and School Management Committees, have all been substantially
completed. The second year program has begun, but some delays are evident
primarily in the construction program. The Government's decision to concen-
trate on school repair and other minor works during the first year of the
national UPE has delayed the start of construction on the schools to which
IDA funds have been targeted. There is also some evidence that the recurrent
training started during the first year may not, as yet, be achieving all of
its intended objectives. The Government has recognized these issues and
have taken appropriate steps to remedy the situation.



- 34 -                     ANNEX II
Page 12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: September 30,
1982
Except for Part A (Training and Service Facilities), implementation
of five of the project's six main parts was completed in mid-1980. Progress
in implementation of the Training and Service Facilities part of the project,
in respect of which the original Closing Date was extended initially by one
year, has improved slightly during the last six months, although it is still
slow and therefore unsatisfactory. Although 9 of the 21 project training
and service facilities were fully completed by September 30, 1981 and 4 more
were expected to be handed over by December 31, 1981, the remaining 8 will not
be completed until mid-1982. In the circumstances n,nd at the Government's
request, the Closing Date has been extended for a secotnd and final period
of nine months to September 30, 1982 to permit full project completion and
disbursement of credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center's component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
the civil works and Family Welfare Centers' components of the service
delivery and training parts of the project are significantly delayed and
thLeir completion within the original four year implementation period (July
1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing not only to the initial one
yaar delay in implementation but also to weak implementation capacity of
responsible agencies, and the impact of budget cuts following the Government-s
revision of its Second Five-Year Plan. These problems combined with the
de facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal, will result in significant
savings. A two year extension of the project implementation period or a
reduction in the projects infrastructure components to match implementation
capacity with subsequent reallocation of the IDA credit are currently being
discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims has been completed, and the results are
awaited. The Closing Date of the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been
extended to December 31, 1982 to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance



ANNEX II
- 35 -                   Page 13
to cover short term protective Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost
of eligible components of the arbitration. Significant failures have appeared
on Feni Bypass.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Proje_.:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered, and tenders for telecommunication equipment
have been issued.  Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels and BIWTA service
vessels have been delivered and are on order. Consultants appointed to carry
out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling of BIWTC and accounting systems
for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports. Implementation of the
recommendations of the accounting studies is in progress. At the request of
the Borrower the closing date has been extended to December 31, 1982.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the Borrower-s
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted, and continues to result, in increased project cost due to inflation.
The problem appears to result from factors outside the control of RHD, e.g.,
the ineptitude of the "Procurement Committee" and standard Government proce-
dures which are in conflict with IDA procurement principles.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and results
of the survey are expected by mid-1982. Also dredging work at the inland
river port of Baghabari has been completed and pontoons are to be in place
shortly. Tenders for procurement of railway material have been issued.
Progress on other project components has been slow, but regular supervision
missions are providing assistance to speed up implementation. Disbursement
of funds, on the other hand, has been satisfactory.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a



- 36 -                        ANNEX II
Page 14
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organiz-
ing its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development.
TTB funds have until recently all been deposited in an overall Government
account. This was changed and, since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank
account to which all funds ar deposited and withdrawn. Thus, TTB has achiev-4
a level of financial autonomy that will permit it to adjust its development
program within the overall framework of the agreed budget. Training on com-
mercial accounts is about to be completed and commercial accounts will be
prepared from FY82/83 onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is
reasonably good. Covenants under the project are now being complied with.
TTB has recently taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining
under the project. Works related to last procurement will be completed by
June 1983. Adequate actions as would be required to further improve TTB's
management, operations and development capability, will be considered under
the proposed third telecommunications project.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
35 subprojects, totaling about $9.0 million have been approved and
a further 10 subprojects, totaling about $9 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the Fourth Technical Assistance
credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. A number of
proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being taken
to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981.



- 37 -                        ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Pipeline design and preparation of procurement documents is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. After initial delays due to unseasonal rains and
materials shortages, BK-2 well has been completed. Production tests confirm
the adequacy of reserves of the Bakhrabad gas fields, and the procurement
of materials and services for the pipeline portion of the project has been
authorized. Pipeline materials and construction contracts are expected to
be awarded in time to complete crossings and other preliminary phases during
the 1981/82 dry season and the entire pipeline the following year, in line
with original schedule.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by mid-1982. Physical progress
is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow startup and
sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems, which
have recently been mostly overcome, and shortage of local currency with which
to pay civil works contractors. Also, recently, DACCA WASA raised its tariff
by 30% and GOB paid off all arrears.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is in place and design is now well advanced. Selection of a second consultant
for a sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial
adviser has proved effective. Procurement has started but implementation will
be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. A tariff increase is needed and WASA
has problems in collecting arrears from Government departments; there is also
a land acquisition problem. GOB has been asked to ensure that all of these
matters are quickly resolved.



ANNEX III
Page 1
- 38 -
BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I            Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
2-1/2 years
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
CPA/IDA with the help of consultants.
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and
date of first mission to consider the project:
February 1979.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
July 5, 1981.
(e) Date of Completion of negotiations:
April 12-16, 1982.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature.
Section II           Special IDA Implementation Action:
None.
Section III          Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a) The approval of project proforma (paragraph 49).
(b) The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
GOB and CPA (paragraph 49).
(c) The establishment of the Project Implementation Unit
and the appointment of key staff (paragraph 50).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) An increase in port tariffs of 25% shall have
been approved by the Borrower and made effective
by CPA (paragraph 53).
(e) CPA to have obtained vacant possession of all
land abutting the multipurpose berth site
(paragraph 54).
Other Conditions
(a) CPA will review prospects for container traffic
and decide in agreement with IDA, what equipment
to acquire (paragraph 45);
(b) CPA to carry out assessment of manpower require-
ments and by December 31, 1983 implement a program
for correcting staff imbalances (paragraph 51);
(c) improvement in port operations through revised
work shift arrangements, reduction of cargo dwell
time and re-organization of the CPA's operation
and maintenance departments (paragraph 52); and
(d) CPA shall by January 1, 1983 commence computation
of operating efficiency indicators and by June 1,
1984 realize agreed cargo handling rates (para-
graph 56).






IBRD 16051 R
NDIA9              ,          ,< \This ht,a a e  ptaApa.e  by Iht
W,Ortd Banks vtaf -xc,e,cey for1_
the ---eiec of the r-der of
I$-  22-20   The de ineros ied eoIT  d                --     d  the                                                                                                              22-25h
-  -                   World Beok aod to affiliatesBr,kSa-drghot
ar  terrtory or aoy ert
ta        BANS     L>owEr               8RAPADEOSPH -               E tFpta O E- /f oh b-d-
INDIA A
y ct, '             .                    : CPAlOfr C f-
to                           Oh            :          iOlOs Coto  Mil rln Sil
0gP  tt l,i,em.t  _   _      _,_                        PROO_E  SI TE \FOA,R {  
ff//               0E         \\\,''''',=,''Mii"'PUROSE hE Ti- /IS
*        t- -    N H-si                                                     |
N  '    i    ;   R   (    /    |    BAND
/  )                                    '           i                       Grai Si(loeg -       rtp       li         - -( IN                                     POR         PR     JC
Ii/                                                -                          1iorty   D          d MPORTo                                 GFpACLTE
75~~ ~~  ~                8'  '\,1 A   1     111 PROPO;-; E0     R  -: u
Bend
-22016'                                                                FUTURE                        Srsr22 i6'
Port  limit                                       INDUSTR
'1 \\,,'\\* /                         Notl
-   \ -\ -, -Ne -::'- ST
BANGLADESH
/                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~HITTAGONG PORT PROJECT
PORT FACILITIES
3                                                                                     0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Proiect site
*-~~~~~~~~~---    N                                                                           (       --   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jetties
/             N                                                  '~~~~~Mjddle             \ ~~~~~o~      Training  walls
/island                      6----  Depth contours- fathoms
Mud
/ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Swamp
____Roads
-Railway
----Port limit
2212'                                                                                                                                                                                               2212'
-- -_  _                           \ 1N : &                       MILES O                       1           2
9t.44'                                                          \      .91,48'                                          jj.                                                          91-52'






BANGLADESH  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/FEBRRUARY IR9.2
CHITTAGONG  PORT PROJECT                                                  , fDT~NMLIUPS
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~BERTHS LAYOUT
CONTAINER  RE G
PORT AUTH0RITJ---                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATIONR A'J
OFFICE      ~'---;~/TRANSIT SHED
CUSTOM HOuSE(  0                      ,           '0/CNAIES  RA   UK
UNTSE   AGOIPRTN,
,,  0R~~~~                                                               NON STANDARD ANO~~~~ON 
~~~y                                                                                         UNITIS           ND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  NTIE
UNHTILED VARG  AN
Project Area                                          IMOIWEE    VEILS
EQUIPMENT                                   NON-
N  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Exsm   hdPARKING                                                                                                     STNDR& 
6oNTERtAACM N,IE               Shed Under Construction                        -v~UITI
LU L  Other Buildings                                                                                        ERxRT 
i-i  40TAMJPLARVEOERTHS LArOUT' c          200    400    600    BO                                   \OIINR   REKP
/                                                                                  E~~~~~~~EE5  A  LL<, NON-SANDARD
C'uOtO /5/0/id~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR                                            AND UNITSED7
PARK          ~~~~CARGO IMAPORTS                                             (t
Z,                                                FUTURE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CFS p                  ID/     ~     O
M. --i-            Nt.    ''                                   / /FTREC                                                                    -       uijtors   Bourndary
N               ehuisiisiiisRhOhsishei orPRO F
hP/noes, sep               OSgY         /   / CON~~~~~TAINER
T55 impS', 50Th. an of   11     -                  ,STACKI~NG AREA/'    /~-O
Inn,o  ht55ienn.s   IP                                                                                                  ii_          _   __   _   _  _   __   _   _
srncp.nnpoi-.,sdso               IfP.             p~                                                                      S






S;;;   ;A1)  '<; 901 40 ;0000 ;0D0                                BANGLADESH
dDanX).!   \><:0  Qs i00ffi ;            iTRANSPORTATIN NETWORK
N , ThlLI.rgcnr f t D3mnr ' t i :0 0 | 0 0 0 0 rl ,nq-     Redo Undn; C ,'t,ataoo
lfaNAID                                                               - g     - - - 
~~~~~~~~F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                              R--a-roay opB-od Goaago
it~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~C Wd                                                    4 044Li9u    HC    f  f    f!    eitsPrs  X    ; E5   f f=
0 <0:    0A IFz~-Uaaaoncp  A    S G P U                                FF;ig   ;               ranopozi  FqPnt Liiit tttRLt5.;0       
=,US = A FUR .                         I G  R    "I
, i  tB0 fR sA Jtt ltS H A t                                              UroPgQ:k_ISL [-~ G z 
N     ii~~ G  
ffE~~~~~~~~~~~~~P WM                                                                  X
|Zhr  a                 o t        nU 4 O1U4ka' irF  7           <                                              ~- y '  -  (  j 
F/4~~~~~~  ~~~U ~~~~~  N              N                        D1-
E a   tAtL  fow ,g JUaPtOtFnt ;4 )  Ran                              ) _'    (oRo i      Un ato 
j Ad,l . .~~~~~~~~~~~ Wd ttr $s. X ~~~~~~~~~~~~I  AL L      
I peeMoreDu<se .tl  F                                                  1          S                                I 
-i(   I;'          'NF2gc4,                        c7A B   aOyCR  B A U  n   ta aaU I   A  PUR
N,  D         t A                       U,   a U                                 N                     SaL-aCT
MA -                    a UA                 o                   U e n 
Ta   )l                                                       UFUMERS .                                        N   " - ' 90<  OE  yS.   \|k;;   0   : jR
I Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Mn                              ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A."a 



