E-365
VOL. 3
ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT
SENEGAL
URBAN MOBILITY
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT






Environmental Assessment of the Dakar Urban Mobility Improvement Project
Provisional Report
1. SUMMARY - CONCLUSIONS
The conclusions of the environmental impact assessment for the project were arrived at essentially
by comparing the existing situation (pre-works) with the situation expected while the works are in
progress and after new or renovated infrastructure has been put in service or once organizational or
institutional arrangements have been introduced.
The initial situation is examined and described in chapter 4, which covers both the physical and
biological factors and the economic and social aspects. Project impacts are examined and assessed in
chapter 6.
The findings have been summarized in a results matrix, outlined below.
Impact on the physical and biological environment.
Generally speaking, the only major negative impacts will occur while the works are in progress.
These may be attenuated or eliminated if - as is required - contractors comply with the measures
proposed.
During the construction phase:
-  Water-related problems will occur during the construction of roads and sidewalks.  Rainwater
disposal will be a major problem, especially in zones III and IV. Each watershed should be studied
and appropriate steps should be taken to ensure that the roads built will last.
-  A very positive impact is expected on air quality and on the reduction of soil and water pollution
following rehabilitation of the suburban line of the railways.
-  There will be a positive impact on air quality, primarily as a result of improved overall traffic
mobility, the expected decrease in road traffic as rail traffic increases, and the introduction of
rneasures to improve the vehicle stock and the quality of gasoline.
nmpact on the quality of life.
]Local traffic congestion inevitably will occur during the construction phase. However, measures have
been proposed to minimize any problems, including information campaigns.
Akside from problems relating directly to the works themselves, the most significant negative impact
will arise from the displacement ("deguerpissement') of small business activities and disruption of
economic activity. The recommendations proposed to attenuate such problems focus on ensuring that
dispilaced small businesses are given the opportunity for a comparable business environment and are
advised in advance of the disruption.
The project is generally expected to lead to an overall improvement in traffic mobility, a relative
decline in traffic accidents, and, thus, an improved quality of life.



Measures to counteract the negative impact of the project are expected to cost some CFAF 3.977
billion, or approximately 15 percent of the total cost of the works.
The negative impact on natural resources and on the quality of life will be decreased by informing all
stakeholders involved in the urban mobility project about related environmental issues and concems and
by providing appropriate additional training and tools to those responsible for environmental monitoring.
In conclusion, the study includes mitigation plans for key areas of concem. If the proposed measures
are taken into account, possible negative environmental impact will be reduced and, for the most part be
outweighed by the resulting socioeconomic benefits.
2



