Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20345-SE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 52.2 MILLION
(US$70 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR AN
URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
May 4, 2000
Water and Urban n
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 10, 2000)
Currency Unit = FCFA
FCFA 1 = US$ 0.0015
US$ 1 = 650 FCFA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF            Association de Financement
AFD           Agence Fran,aise de Developpement
AGETIP        Agence pour P'Ex&cution de Travaux d'interet Public
APL           Adaptable Lending Program
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CETUD         Conseil Ex&utif des Transports Urbains de Dakar
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FY            Fiscal Year
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
G.I.E.        Groupement d'Intret Economique
GOS           Govermment of Senegal
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IRR           Internal Rate of Return
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance
MET           Ministry of Equipment and Transport
NBF           Non-Bank Financed
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
NDF           Nordic Development Fund
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PTB           Petit Train Bleu
SNCS          National Railroad Company/Societe Nationale de Chemins de Fer du Sene'gal
SSATP         Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
TA            Technical Assistance
UMIP          Urban Mobility Improvement Project
UTDF          Urban Transport Development Fund IFonds de Developpement des Transports Urbains
WBI           World Bank Institute
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:    Letitia A. Obeng
Team Leader:    Patrick Bultynck



SENEGAL
URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                   Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                 3
2. Project development objective                                                       6
3. Key performance indicators                                                          6
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      7
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 12
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  15
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 15
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      16
3. Benefits and target population                                                     16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           20
2. Financial                                                                          21
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Social                                                                             22
6. Environment                                                                        22
7. Participatory Approach                                                             23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     23



2. Critical risks                                                                     25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     26
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            26
2. Other                                                                              26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          26
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          28
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         39
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                               40
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  62
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            64
Annex 11: Toward an Urban Mobility Charter--Performance Indicators                       66
Annex 12: Financial Management Capacity Assessments                                      71
MAP(S)
Map: IBRD 30877



SENEGAL
URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTU2
Date: May 4, 2000                                 Team Leader: Patrick Bultynck
Country Manager/Director: Mahmood A. Ayub         Sector Manager/Director: Letitia A. Obeng
Project ID: P055472                               Sector(s): TU - Urban Transport
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated    i
APL  -Indicative Financing Plan                  Implementation Period          Borrower
._____________               .                   ..   E.:.(Bank  FY)
IBRD            Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m        Date        Date
APL-1       70.00    68.0   33.00       103.00                 12/31/2004
Loan/
Credit,_                                                                _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2       25.00    79.6    6.40        31.40                 12/31/2007
Loan/
Credit
APL-3
Loan/
Credit
APL-4
Loan/
Credit
Total       95.00 (er)39.40            1 134.40             t   a
Project Financing Data
El Loan         N Credit       Li Grant        El Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 70
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (yeamn): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                   Service charge: 0.75%
F     ,nanc,. Pt.n:    Source L,ocal                                      Foreign         TOW. 
GOVERNMENT                                                     2.40            1.20          3.60
IBRD
IDA                                                           21.00           49.00         70.00
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT                              3.70           13.60         17.30
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND                                         4.40           3.20          7.60
OTHER                                                          4.50            0.00          4.50
MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED)                        0.00           0.00          0.00
Total:                                                         36.00          67.00        103.00



Borrower: MINISTRY OF EQUIPEMENT AND TRANSPORT
Responsible agency: CETUD (CONSEIL EXECUTIF DES TRANSPORTS URBAINS DE DAKAR)
Conseil Executif des Transports Urbains de Dakar (CETUD)
Address: Ex TP SOM, Route du Front de Terre, Hann
Contact Person: Ousmane Thiam, President du CETUD
Tel: 22-1 832 47 42                Fax: 221 832 47 44                 Email: cetud@telecomplus.sn
Other Agency(ies):
Societe Nationale de Chemins de Fer du Senegal (SNCS)
Address: B.P. 175/A Thies, Senegal
Contact Person: Fadel Kane, Directeur De1lgue
Tel: 221 951 14 42               Fax: 221 951 14 42                Email:
Association de Financement (for the leasing mechanism)
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
~~~~0  .'                                o2<,, 'i^i.3           . _ 0'0  0w04' '0 020''0500
Annual      7.0          17.5         24.5        17.5         3.5
Cumulative     7.0          24.5         49.0         66.5        70.0
Project implementation period: APL : 7 years. Phase 1: 4 years. Phase 2: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
CS APL PAO Fop,: Rev.  dMl. 2
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1,. Program purpose and program phasing:
The objective of this Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation is to contribute to the
improvement of the safety, efficiency, and environmental quality of urban mobility in the Dakar
metropolitan area, especially for the urban poor, and improve road safety in Thies and Kaolack. It will do
this by (i) promoting public transport services and (ii) ensuring the safe movement of pedestrians and road
users.
Rationale for a Program (APL)
In May 1997, the World Bank approved the Urban Transport and Capacity Building (Technical
Assistance--TA) Project, a credit of US$6.6 million, to assist the Government of Senegal (GOS) in the
implementation of a comprehensive institutional and regulatory reform program, outlined in Senegal's 1996
Urban Transport Policy Letter. This project has helped pilot the establishment of an institution in Dakar,
with representation from various stakeholders and important actors of the urban transport sector
ministries, municipalities, industry. This body, the Conseil Executif des Transports Urhains de Dakar
(CETUD) is the first of its kind in Sub-Saharan Africa. It coordinates actions that address major urban
mobility issues in Dajkar. In addition, the TA Project is supporting privatization of the public transport
company (SOTRAC), a comprehensive training program for minibus (Cars Rapides) drivers and studies to
identify future investments within an intermodal policy framework encompassing all modes of transport.
The construction of two bus stations (Daroukhane and Parcelles Assainies) as well as equipment for two
bus terminals (Ilot Petersen and Lat Dior) are also being supported.
IHowever, no major investments were included in either the TA Project or in other related projects,
such as the ongoing Transport II Project and the Urban Development and Decentralization Program.
Agreement was reached between the GOS and IDA that urban mobility issues are sufficiently important
and separate to warrant the preparation of a free-standing Urban Mobility Improvement Project (UMIP).
During preparation of the UMIP, it was noted that the new institutional body in Dakar which is considered
as a pilot city in Sub-Saharan Africa, represents sector stakeholders and coordinates major urban mobility
issues.
Within this context, a comprehensive program of investments has been identified by the GOS, in
partnership with IDA and other donors. The five components of the program are designed to ensure
sustainable mobility and they integrate safety, efficiency, reliability, and enviromnental health protection.
The investments and activities included in the components are aimed at achieving two complementary
objectives: (a) promoting the role of the private sector in the provision of public transport services; and (b)
ensuring the safe movement of pedestrians and road users. Through such an approach, the Program will
help alleviate the burden of negative externalities on urban productivity and contribute to improving the
living conditions of the urban poor.
During the preparation of the UMIP, the Bank and the GOS agreed that the technical readiness of
some investments was not mature enough, at this stage, to be considered within a single operation.
Therefore, in keeping with the principle of an intermodal and comprehensive approach to solving
Dakar's urban transport crisis, the UMIP is designed to be implemented in two phases within an APL
operation. Agreement was reached between the GOS and IDA on the Program's long-term development
objectives, program justification, description of the required investments and activities, and the sequence of
their implementation, with milestones, performance indicators, and policy requirements.
- 3 -



The Program's five components are:
I . Rehabilitation of urban roads, together with road safety and traffic management measures;
2. Implementation of measures for pedestrian and traffic safety along the suburban railway line;
3. Financial support, through a leasing mechanism, for the partial renewal of the public transport
fleet;
4. Support for implementation of an Urban Air Quality Management Strategy; and
5. Strengthening of local expertise and institutional capacity in urban mobility; involvement of Union
leaders in the advocacy of more HIV/AIDS prevention activities; technical studies; and support for
CETUD, the implementing agency.
The Program's total cost is estimated (with contingencies and inflation) at US$134.40 million. The
first phase would cost US$103 million, or about 77 percent of the Program. By the end of the Program's
second phase, the following activities/outputs are expected to be carried out:
*   Urban road and urban transport infrastructure (such as sidewalks, crossroads, bus stations, and
stops) in Dakar will have been rehabilitated, redesigned, and maintained (through traffic
management measures and road safety action plans);
*   Old public transport vehicles will have been partially rehabilitated/renewed in accordance with
safety and environmental standards;
*   Measures for pedestrian and traffic safety along the suburban railway line will have been
implemented and the operation of the suburban railway line awarded to a private concessionaire;
and
-   Sustainable reduction in negative externalities, such as air pollution, traffic congestion, and road
accidents, will have been obtained.
Program phasing
Phase 1:
The activities to be carried out during this phase include: (i) basic urban road repairs and
resurfacing; (ii) improving efficiency of the road network; and (iii) opening some un-served or under-served
urban areas to public transport services. In addition, a comprehensive Road Safety Action Plan, combined
with traffic management measures, will be implemented. This will include the construction/improvement of
sidewalks, pedestrian footbridges, traffic lighting, protection of non-motorized traffic (through the
construction of paths segregated from motorized traffic), construction of terninals for buses and Cars
Rapides, construction of stations on the outskirts of Dakar to alleviate downtown congestion from
interurban traffic and trucks, and preparation of an Urban Mobility Plan with the long-term perspective of
integrating planning and potential decentralization of offices and services.
Other activities to be carried out include: (a) concessioning of the suburban railway services to the
private sector, using consulting services, and (b) implementing some basic measures to protect pedestrians
and traffic movement along the suburban railway line. Under the latter component, a third track will be
constructed between Hann and Fass Mbao; the railway right-of-way will be fenced along the suburban
railway line; footbridges constructed and railroad grade-crossings eliminated (through construction of
overpasses or underpasses) or improved. Phase 1 of the Program will also finance rehabilitation of Dakar's
central railway station, an architectural landmark, as well as the Rufisque railway station.
-4 -



Financial and technical support will be provided for the development of a leasing mechanism
required for the renovation and rehabilitation of public transport vehicles (Cars Rapides).
An Urban Air Quality Management Strategy will be designed and implemented to reduce the level of
pollution generated by motorized transport. Initiatives included in this strategy are: (a) construction of
three automobile monitoring centers; (b) establishment of an observatory to track urban pollution; and (c)
introduction and supervision of an urban air quality action plan including (but not limited to) the gradual
introduction of unleaded gasoline, support for decentralization of certain administrative centers to the city's
outskirts, public awareness campaigns targeting users and sector specialists (for example, automobile and
fuel distributors), and a toxic emissions control program targeting motorized vehicles.
Phase 2:
The main activities to be carried out in this phase include:
*   Finalization of the program for the renewal of the public transport fleet, based on lessons
learned during the first phase and the degree of professional and managerial capacity gained by
the operators/owners of the vehicles;
* Completion of the rehabilitation of urban roads keeping with Road Safety Action Plan and
Traffic Management measures; and
* Complementary investments in the suburban railway line, based on the technical and
operational configuration of the concessioning (the principle and amount of the investments
have to be confirmed).
The conditions (triggers) to be met for considering Phase 2 were discussed and agreed upon with
the GOS as follows:
Finalization of the urban road network to be * 75% of the civil works included in Phase I carried out;
rehabilitated and the integrated road safety * Appropriate budget committed for the maintenance of civil
measures to be undertaken                works financed by the project
* Adoption of an Urban Mobility Plan (Plan de Deplacement)
endorsed by the major stakeholders and adopted by the GOS.
Second phase of the Urban Transport Leasing * 90% of the lease payments due and payable by the operators
Scheme                                   under the lease contracts have been paid (the 10% balance being
recovered after the trigger date for Phase 2)
* 80% of the Cars Rapides financed under the leasing scheme
operate on specific itineraries and under concessioning
agreements
Measures to protect the movement of Adoption of a coordination plan for public transport services
pedestrians and traffic along the suburban including the suburban railway line
railway line                             Concessioning of the suburban railway line to a private operator
Urban Air Quality Management             Update of the September 1996 Urban Transport Policy Letter
and taking account of the relationship between transport and the
environment
Strengthening role of the CETUD          Reinforcement of CETUD's role as a regulatory institution
through update of the 1997 law establishing CETUD
-5 -



Since the Program is to be implemented in two phases, any references to the "project" in the
remainder of this document will be only to the first phase.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Improve the safety, efficiency, and environmental quality of urban mobility in the Dakar
metropolitan area and road safety in Thies and Kaolack. Special attention will be paid to improving
mobility for the urban poor by: (i) promoting public transport services, and (ii) ensuring the safe
movement of pedestrians and road users.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following outcomes are the key performance indicators for meeting these development
objectives:
Improved level of service and reduced traffic congestion in the Dakar metropolitan area as a result of:
- Construction/rehabilitation of urban roads and infrastructure for public transport;
- Traffic management measures, including traffic priority measures for public transport;
- Long-term land-use planning and control (integration of land use, roads, and transport
policies); and
-  Concessioning of suburban railway services, which will become the backbone of
public transport.
Increased throughput (in terms of passengers) of public transport corridors as a result of:
- Improved management of bus operations;
- Implementation of an intermodal and coordinated policy promoting public transport;
- Concessioning of suburban railway services;
- Construction of interchange stations (bus, minibus-rail) facilitating safe transfer for
passengers; and
- Improved access to remote urban areas.
Reduced levels of air pollution through:
- Progressive introduction of unleaded gasoline;
- Vehicle emission control program;
- Progressive renewal of the old public transport vehicles (Cars Rapides); and
- Implementation of an Urban Air Quality Management Strategy.
Reduced accidents per capita as a result of:
- Traffic management measures (bus terminals, bus stops, signaling, and marking);
- Public awareness campaigns and stakeholder participation;
- Physical protection of pedestrians from motorized traffic (footbridges and sidewalks);
- Protection of non-motorized transport; and
- Measures and investments to protect pedestrians and traffic along the suburban railway line.
Improved effectiveness and efficiency of the urban roads network as a result of:
- Appropriate design of urban roads and intersections to eliminate traffic bottlenecks and
accommodate the safe flow of public transport and pedestrian movements;
- Improved access to some enclaved urban areas; and
- Construction of metered parking slots.
- 6 -



Strengthened management capacity as a result of:
- Increased private sector role in providing urban transport services, construction, and
management of some urban infrastructure (such as bus terminals), concessioning of suburban
railway services, and award of civil works to small-scale local entrepreneurs;
- Training sessions for Cars Rapides' owners and institutional strengthening of key agencies.
Most of the rights and commitments of the sector's main constituencies will be integrated into a "Mobility
Charter" encompassing the key performance indicators (see Annex 11 for the key figures and
objectives of the performance indicators).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No 17269-SE                     Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/22/98
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Senegal is to support policies and investments that
will encourage economic growth and social development. The proposed Project addresses several aspects
of the CAS: (a) it contributes to environmentally sustainable growth by alleviating the massive congestion
in metropolitan Dakar and by reducing the unacceptable level of air pollution caused by over-aged and
badly maintained vehicles; (b) it supports the objective of reducing poverty and improving the living
conditions of the urban poor by reducing the number of traffic accidents involving pedestrians; (c) it
supports one of the key pillars of the strategy relating to private sector development : under the previous
project the institutional framework has been established for a viable urban transport system and the new
operation will build on it in a systematic and timely manner; (d) it supports the building of necessary urban
transport infrastructure; and (e) on the issue of the regional approach to development, another aspect of the
CAS, the Project flows naturally from the work of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
(SSATP), that includes participation of 20 sub-Saharan African countries. Dakar serves as a pilot city for
this partnership program.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.A. An urban mobility in crisis
The urban transport sector in Dakar has been progressively facing a major crisis over the past 15
years, due to a combination of increasing urban population growth (4 percent a year on average, with 2.4
percent in Dakar and 8.5 percent in Pikine-Guediawaye), massive daily pendulum commuter migration
because of the geographical configuration of the Cap-Vert Peninsula, aging vehicles (especially public
transport vehicles with an average age of 18 years), lack of traffic management measures, inappropriate
regulation, institutional fragmentation, and the lack of intermodal coordination.
Dakar's population has grown from 18,000 in 1902 to 2.2 million in 1998 (accounting for 54
percent of the urban population and 24 percent Senegal's total population), and is expected to reach 3.2
million by the year 2010.
Those most affected by the mobility crisis are the urban poor; they live in suburban areas, travel
long distances, and when affordable, use over-crowded minibuses that generate increasing air pollution and
cause most of the traffic accidents in Dakar. Due to the lack of affordable and/or reliable transport
services, 27 percent of the population walk long distances. A study carried out in September 1998 shows
-7 -



4.3 million daily trips in the Dakar metropolitan area, of which 56 percent are motorized and 80 percent of
these are by public transport. Hence, 2 million trips a day are made by public transport, and 94 percent of
these trips are for commuting to or from work.
Dakar's public transport system, a potentially efficient mode of transport, is hindered by slow
operating speeds and it generates high levels of vehicle-related accidents and air pollution, serious health
threats to the urban population. A study completed in November 1998 estimates that the annual cost of
externalities (traffic accidents, air pollution, traffic congestion, and noise) caused by urban transport
amounts to FCFA 108 billion (about US$180 million), or 4.6 percent of Senegal's GDP. The annual cost of
delays caused by traffic congestion is estimated at about US$70 million, representing 1 million hours lost
each day.
This crisis affects the urban economy and impedes the social, environmental, and sustainable
growth of the city. The poor are less able to afford the additional time, effort, and cost of transport than
people with higher incomes, who have access to alternative means of transport, such as private cars.
2.B. Urban Population and Employment in Dakar
The Dakar metropolitan area consists of three major poles, Dakar City, Pikine-Guediawaye, and
Rufisque, which are aligned from the West coast to the East inland along the 34 kilometers of the Cap-Vert
Peninsula. Of the 2.2 million people in the Dakar metro area, approximately 860,000 reside in Dakar City,
with the remaining split among Pikine-Guediawaye (1,060,000), Rufisque-Bargny (185,000), and rural
areas (90,000).
The population growth rate within these three districts varies substantially, from the global 4
percent yearly rate in the Dakar metropolitan area, with the highest growth occurring in
Pikine-Guediawaye, 8.5 percent per year, more than three times as fast as the 2.4 percent growth rate in
Dakar City. However, by the year 2000, Pikine's annual population growth rate will begin to taper off
slightly while Rufisque's 6 percent population growth rate will continue to increase. The imbalance
between population and job distribution is expected to continue and even grow in the future in the absence
of remedial long-term measures. The imbalance of jobs and housing generates a massive daily pendulum
commuter migration between Dakar City where the bulk of the jobs are located, and the two bedroom
communities of Pikine-Guediawaye and Rufisque.
The narrow Cap-Vert Peninsula, along which the migration occurs, is limited to two major
east-west roads between Dakar City and the entrance to Pikine-Guediawaye, one major east-west road east
of Pikine-Guediawaye, and one east-west railway line shared between freight and public passenger
transportation from Dakar Port to Rufisque. The present capacity of the suburban railway system (the
Petit Train Bleu--PTB) is very limited, so that commuter demand puts a serious strain on major roads.
The urban transport sector is a major provider of private sector employment (microenterprises).
More than 30,000 persons derive their livelihood from the ownership, operation, and maintenance of the
Cars Rapides through direct or indirect intervention (spare parts, mechanics, and maintenance). Public
transport also plays a major role in the urban economy by facilitating access to places of employment,
markets, schools, and social and medical services.
-8 -



2.C. Roots of the crisis
Urban Roads and Infrastructure
With the exception of the railway system, which provides transport for both freight and passengers
between Dakar's port and Rufisque (1 percent of the market share of urban transport trips), the remaining
urban transport is accomplished almost exclusively along roadways.
The distribution of roads, however, is very unbalanced between districts. In the older parts of
Dakar (Plateau, Grand Dakar, and Medina), the road density varies between 100 and 150 linear meters of
road per hectare. In the newly settled areas, such as Pikine and Guediawaye, the density drops to 40 linear
meters per hectare. There are 15 important public transport terminals scattered throughout Dakar City and
its suburbs, but only two are adequately equipped.
Aging of the public transport fleet
In Dakar's aging public transport fleet, 80 percent of the vehicles are more than 10 years old, and
50 percent are more than 15 years old. The age of the fleet combined with poor technical standards and
driving habits are the major causes for the high traffic accident rate and air pollution levels in the
metropolitan area.
One of the main reasons for the aging of the fleet is the difficulty for any owner/operator to renew
vehicles due to the prevailing stringent financial enviromnent. Indeed, there are several constraints in
mobilizing the equity and debt financing necessary to bring new buses into Dakar.
For the minibus operators (Cars Rapides and the more comfortable white mini-vans Ndiaga
Ndiaye) the constraints are:
- Limited access to credit that matches the economic life of the vehicles to be financed;
- High interest rates;
- Demand for collateral and the margins for borrowing/leasing; and
- Insufficient revenues to renew the fleet.
A study carried out in January 1998 revealed that current revenues from operations do not cover
the depreciation of vehicles that would allow for the purchase of additional or new vehicles.
The constraints for the local financial institutions are:
- Smaller operators may not be financially sound or creditworthy;
- Previous history of major reimbursement defaults under a 1976 financing scheme; and
- Cumbersome judicial procedures for recourse to courts.
Roads and Traffic Management
Traffic engineering skills to improve traffic flows, reduce conflicts between road users, protect
pedestrians and non-motorized transport and give priority to public transport are either lacking or
insufficient. Most of the urban roads are not used to their full capacity due to the lack of traffic
management, inadequate enforcement of traffic regulations, and encroachment by street vendors. Many
roads lack sidewalks, many existing sidewalks are used for unauthorized vehicle stops and parking, and
there are not enough footbridges for pedestrian crossings on major highways. In addition, lack of
-9-



coordination among utility agencies and the road maintenance agency results in repetitive and
uncoordinated road repairs and disruption of drainage, which further reduces road carrying capacity and
increases traffic congestion.
High accident rates
In 1995, 2,320 traffic accidents were reported in the Dakar metropolitan area, resulting in 379
deaths and 2,100 injuries. The traffic fatality rate of 47 per 10,000 motor vehicles is one of the worst in
Sub-Saharan Africa, compared with 23 in Benin, 27 in Tanzania, and 28 in Cote d'Ivoire; while the rate is
only 1.4 in Great Britain (see SSATP Working Paper 35, "Road Safety in Africa: Appraisal of Road
Safety Initiatives in five African countries," February 1998). Even more alarming is the fact that the
traffic fatality rate has increased by about 10 percent each year during the period 1990-95.
The high fatality rate is due to the combination of poor discipline of road users, the driving habits
of Cars Rapides' operators, lack of perception of dangers by road users, use of road space by vehicles
traveling at different speeds, lack of protection for pedestrians crossing roads, insufficient or no street
lighting at night, and delay in providing first aid assistance to accident victims. It is the public transport
vehicles (Cars Rapides) that are reported to have been involved in most of the accidents.
Air pollution generated by motorized traffic
Air pollution (together with traffic congestion and road accidents) is a major environmental issue
that is to be addressed in the UMIP. A study was carried out in June-October 1998 to analyze the cost of
externalities related to the urban transport system in the Dakar metropolitan area. Motorized traffic was
identified as the cause of 33 percent of air pollution in the Dakar urban area.
A complementary assessment, completed in November 1998, further analyzed the impact of
motorized traffic on human health and its role in urban air pollution. On December 17-18, 1998 a national
seminar was held in Dakar to: (a) raise awareness of the Senegalese authorities about these issues; (b)
identify the main causes of air pollution in Dakar and its impact on health; and (c) start the preparation of
an Urban Air Quality Management Strategy.
Urban and transport planning issues
Strengthening of transportation planning, traffic database, traffic management, and economic and
financial evaluation of new investments is needed to improve urban mobility conditions in Dakar. Hence,
CETUD and, as when appropriate, local agencies will be equipped with demand and supply models to test
different land use, air quality, and urban transport scenarios. Furthermore, an integrated land use, urban
transport, and air quality strategy will be designed and revised periodically. The institutional component of
the proposed UMIP includes provision for financing this type of model and supporting studies.
2.D. From Crisis to Reform: participatory approach and sound institutional reform
To find long-term solutions to the urban mobility crisis, the GOS embarked in 1993 on a
comprehensive sector dialogue with the major stakeholders. This initiative was launched within the SSATP
partnership and coordinated by the World Bank. Twenty African countries are members of the Urban
Mobility (previously Urban Transport) component of this regional partnership. Within the SSATP, Dakar
is considered a "Pilot City" (Ville-Pilote).
- 1 0 -



On September 25, 1996, the GOS signed an Urban Transport Policy Letter based on the consensus
built during the national sector dialogue launched in 1993. To assist the GOS in the implementation of a
comprehensive institutional reform, the World Bank approved a US$6.6 million credit in June 1997 for a
TA project, the Urban Transport Reform and Capacity Building Project (ID SN- 44 383), designed to
support the establishment of a new institutional framework for all the major stakeholders in the sector,
national ministries, local government, operators, and the CETUD.
Additional assistance was provided under the credit for: (a) privatization of the public transport
company, SOTRAC; (b) road safety campaigns; (c) investments for a few bus terminals and bus stops
(Daroukhane, Parcelles Assainies, Ilot Petersen, and Lat Dior); and (d) analysis of major road accidents (
'~points noirs") complemented by minor adjustments on some crossroads. Since the project was designed as
a TA project, no major investments were planned.
2.E. The Government's Strategy
The strategy of the GOS is defined in its Urban Transport Policy Letter of September 1996. The
objectives of this strategy are consistent with the Government's overall policy, as defined in the Ninth
Development Plan for Economic and Social Development (1996-2001), which aims to:
e   make the regulatory framework better suited to promote healthy competition and to attract
increased investments;
*   develop private enterprises and further the changes to promote autonomy; and
* improve the quality of public services and basic infrastructure.
Four areas in the urban transport sector were identified: (a) the institutional and legal framework;
(b) financial framework; (c) restructuring of public transportation; and (d) development of human
resources.
Institutional and legal framework. This reform aims to: (a) combine, under the aegis of a
specialized institution, the preparation of a consistent road safety policy; (b) remedy the dispersal of
authority and responsibilities among the various central and local institutions; and (c) improve coordination
for the formulation of the urban transport sector policy through a sustained and coherent sector dialogue
with the major stakeholders.
Financial framework. This reform aims to: (a) reorganize the sector to make it financially
attractive; (b) ensure better distribution of the financing of transportation for the benefit of different direct
and indirect beneficiaries; (c) identify the cost of public service constraints and have this cost borne by the
party or parties concerned; and (d) putting the appropriate human, financial, and logistical resources in
place with a view to the autonomous management of the system.
Restructuring of public transportation. This reform aims to: (a) redefine SOTRAC and Cars
Rapides' routes with a view to ensuring intermodal complementarity together with upgraded suburban
railway services; (b) renew the equipment of SOTRAC, the Cars R?apides, and the suburban railway; (c)
upgrade suburban railway services and make them the backbone of the future urban/suburban transport
system in Dakar; and (d) integrate the tariffs policy on the basis of the complementarity between modes.
On the investment side, the GOS has decided to adopt the leasing formula that would enable
operators to find the necessary funding for procurement of transportation equipment through monthly
payments. This leasing formula, based on concessi'onary credits, will allow repayment schedules that are
- 11 -



more attractive than longer term bank credit. Measures (mesures d'accompagement) will be taken to
mitigate the risks associated with the reimbursement.
Human resource development. This reform aims to: (a) assure training for urban transport
service drivers; (b) develop the technical and financial capacity of the sector's professionals; (c) improve
the information system for users of public transport services and pedestrians; and (d) increase the technical
expertise of municipal staff on issues related to urban mobility.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.A.   Private sector development
The role of the private sector will be significantly reinforced in Dakar's urban transport sector.
Such a stronger role, expected to be created on a sound and sustainable basis, will be developed along four
main areas: (a) provision of public transport services by microenterprises; (b) concessioning of suburban
railway services to a private operator; (c) participation of local entrepreneurs in the civil works component
of the project; and (d) management by the private sector of urban infrastructure, such as bus terminals,
technical control centers for vehicles, and parking zones.
Financial support and capacity building for the small urban transport operators
Under the proposed scheme, the fleet of public transport vehicles to replace the existing fleet will
consist of new or second-hand vehicles procured through international competitive bidding.
Under Phase 1 of the proposed APL, IDA financing would amount to US$19 million, of which
US$18.5 million will be used to acquire about 300 new vehicles and rehabilitate approximately 600
second-hand vehicles. An amount of US$0.5 million will be used for capacity building, management, and
monitoring and control of the implementation of the leasing scheme. The private operators will provide 25
percent of the financing for the vehicles.
If the results of the pilot project are satisfactory, and given the strong expression of interest from
other donors in the proposed scheme, it is likely that several of them will support the scheme, thereby
increasing the size of the fleet which could be renewed under Phase 1 of the APL. The GOS has been
informed of this interest by the other donors, which will provide an additional incentive to the Government
to satisfy its contractual obligations in the implementation of the scheme.
Under the proposed scheme, a leasing cooperative, fully owned by private operators of Cars
Rapides, will be set up. To be eligible to participate in the scheme, membership in the cooperative will be
mandatory for a private operator. The leasing cooperative will be managed by a professional private
manager who will be selected through competitive bidding. The contract between the leasing cooperative
and the professional private manager will be consistent with the Project Implementation Manual and which
shall specify, inter alia, the operational mechanism of the leasing scheme to be followed by the private
manager, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Each lease with a private operator shall have a
maturity not exceeding six years, including a grace period of up to one year, and secured by a lien on the
fleet of vehicles being financed. IDA will finance the loan under the proposed Project.
A mutual guarantee fund will be set up to top up any shortfall on payment by any of the
participating G.I.E.s A monthly contribution, equal to 3 percent of the monthly lease payments, will be
added to the monthly lease payments and paid to the fund. The initial endowment of the mutual guarantee
fund, equal to three monthly lease payments, will be financed under the proposed UMIP and the leasing
cooperative will have the right to draw from the guarantee fund to top up any shortfalls in the monthly lease
payments.
- 12 -



In November 1999, representatives of the four major Cars Rapides associations (owners, drivers)
signed a commitment letter endorsing the proposed leasing scheme (see the Project files), including the
conditions and related measures (mesures d'accompagment).
The proposed Project will help to improve for the Cars Rapides operators/owners the conditions of
operation by reducing traffic congestion and allowing an increase in the average speed of commercial
vehicles. In addition, as the project supports the mechanism for stricter enforcement of traffic safety and
pollution control regulations, it is expected that the number of competing operators will decrease slightly
and allow vehicles which pass technical, safety, and pollution standards to operate with a better rate of
capacity utilization. Cars Rapides' owners will be encouraged to organize themselves into economic
associations (such as the G.I.E.s) in order to obtain priority access to long-term financing facilities to be
provided under the proposed Project. Such increased level of professional organization among Cars
Rapides operators will facilitate coordination of itineraries and operation frequencies, which will in turn
increase vehicle revenues and improve the quality of service for passengers.
Measures for pedestrian and traffic safety along the suburban railway line and support for
concessioning of suburban railway services to the private sector
The Dakar-Rufisque railway route, one of the main suburban access routes to downtown Dakar, is
operated by the Societe Nationale de Chemins de Fer du Senegal (SNCS). After a sharp increase during
1988 to 1991, traffic declined during recent years due to the poor condition of the rolling stock, lack of
equipment, dispatching conflicts between long-distance and suburban traffic, and poor quality of service
(including heavy pollution by phosphate rock dust due to inadequate control of railway operations by
SNCS). Operational deficits incurred by the SNCS increased, while no adequate financial compensation
was in place. On December 30, 1999 the GOS issued a Policy Letter with its decision to develop and
upgrade suburban railway services and concession them to a private operator, to be selected through a
competitive bidding process.
Within this component, specific attention will be paid to the safe movement of pedestrians and
traffic (motorized vehicles as well as railway traffic) along the suburban railway line. Safety measures and
the investments will be related, inter alia, to fencing of the right-of-way along the railway line,
improvement of railroad level crossings, and rehabilitation of the signaling. In light of the non-revenue
producing nature of these types of investments involved in this component, the investments will be financed
through a subsidy from the GOS to SNCS.
The Project will provide support for implementation of the concessioning process through
consulting services, and safety of the railway infrastructure used for suburban services will be improved,
while the concessionaire will directly finance or co-finance rolling stock investments as well as other
improvements in infrastructure (signaling, telecommunications, and stations).
Private construction and management of some basic urban infrastructure
The civil works component of the Project will be carried out with labor-intensive methods and will
reinforce the local construction industry through participation of AGETIP or any other qualified agency.
The private sector will be asked to manage, on a concession basis, urban infrastructure such as bus
terminals, technical control centers. and parking, in accordance with technical and financial specifications.
3.B.   Traffic management schemes
The range of traffic management methods to be included in the Project represents a wide spectrum
- 13-



of approaches, such as management of demand (public education and parking control) and supply (bus
priority lanes and priority traffic signals) as well as those that are technical (channelization) and regulatory
in nature (traffic signal controls, signs and marking, and street parking controls). Moreover, road users,
operators, and communities will be involved in designing and assessing the relative effectiveness of these
measures.
Targeted actions to engage users and operators to adopt a modified road-user culture will be
necessary and will complement technical measures for traffic management testing and development.
3.C.   Integrated environmental strategy
Cars, trucks, motorcycles, scooters, and buses emit significant quantities of carbon monoxide;
furthermore, leaded gasoline causes 90 percent of airborne lead pollution. Growth in urban transport has
led to increases in these emissions, with negative effects on human health, productivity, and quality of life
for Dakar's urban population.  Other concerns about vehicle emissions include global warming.
Addressing these issues will have both economic and health benefits.
All the Project's major components will reinforce an integrated environmental strategy for the
sustainable development of urban mobility in Dakar. Appropriate environmental mitigation measures
associated with the civil works component will be included, as recommended in the environmental analysis.
The Project includes the preparation of an Urban Air Quality Management Strategy that will specifically
address environmental issues. It will aim to reduce the level of air pollution generated by motorized traffic.
The strategy will incorporate the following elements:
Technical measures related to vehicles and fuel: The Project will develop and implement technical
measures to reduce air pollution and other environmental impacts of road transport, including an emission
control program that will cover fuel quality, engine efficiency, vehicle maintenance, traffic operations, and
emission controls.
Transport demand management: The advanced age of the public transport fleet combined with poor
technical standards and driving habits are the major reasons for the high rates of traffic accidents and air
pollution in the city. Public transport vehicles will be renewed gradually. The Project will focus on the
most polluting and heavily used vehicles, such as Cars Rapides.
Infrastructure and public transport improvements: A comprehensive and preventive package of
long-term measures will be adopted, including measures for improved strategic land-use planning, greater
reliance on a more effective multimodal transport system promoting environmentally friendly public
transport, awareness campaigns and training, and preparation of a long-term Mobility Plan (Plan de
Deplacements Urbains) that will integrate transport and housing.
The measures will be selected on the basis of their enforceability and cost-effectiveness. Lessons will
be drawn from the World Bank's experience in other developing regions (mainly Asia) as well as the
conclusions and recommendations from a seminar on Urban Transport and Air Quality, held in Dakar
(December 17-18, 1998) as part of the Clean Air Initiative in Sub-Saharan African Cities, launched in
1998 by the SSATP and the World Bank Institute.
The Urban Air Quality Management Strategy will also include the gradual introduction of unleaded
gasoline and associated fiscal incentives. Recommended measures could include differentiated gasoline
taxation in favor of unleaded gasoline, public education to increase awareness of the health benefits of
-14 -



lead-free gasoline, and other incentive programs to facilitate the cost-effective phase-out of leaded gasoline.
Savings in terms of better health, improved engine maintenance, and greater fuel efficiency would be
expected.
The UMIP will select and prioritize investments and targeted training that would have a direct
impact on improvements in the public transport system, and to a lesser extent, on the use of private cars. In
addition, institutional, technical, and budgetary arrangements will be made to implement and monitor air
quality associated with urban transport.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Please refer to section 1 above for Program description and phasing.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Compone-t       .ector       Indicative            Bank-      % of
Comp  Sector  Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
__________i_._:_:_._:_._.__                         (US$M)   Total    (U$M    i
I. Implementation of a Road       Urban Transport    42.37       41.1      23.72      33.9
Rehabilitation Program and road
safety and traffic management
measures
2. Measures for pedestrian and traffic   Railways     21.14       20.5     20.11      28.7
safety along the suburban railway line
3. Technical and financial support for  Urban Transport    25.20  24.5     19.06      27.2
the development of a leasing scheme
4. Urban Air Quality Management    Urban               9.04        8.8      2.22       3.2
Strategy                           Environment
5. Capacity building and institutional   Institutional  4.70       4.6      4.30       6.1
strengthening                      Development
6. Refinancing of PPF                                  0.55        0.5      0.55       0.8
Total Project Costs                  103.00      100.0     69.96     100.0
Total Financing Required                   103.00     100.0      69.96     100.0
The Agence Fran aise de Developpement (AFD) and the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) have
expressed interest in co-financing for this Project. The AFD would contribute US$17.3 million which
would be devoted to the first component for: (i) the rehabilitation and construction of urban roads; (ii) the
construction of bus stations and terminals; and (iii) the construction of some major cross-roads. The NDF
has indicated interest in financing a portion of the Urban Air Quality Management component, mainly
through the construction of three technical control centers for vehicle inspections and the Urban Air
Laboratory, together with training and capacity building. The total NDF contribution would amount to
amounts to US$7.6 million. As for the leasing scheme is concemed, 25 percent of the acquisition price of
vehicles will be financed by the private operators through the deposits made for the corresponding down
- 15 -



payment (25 percent of the vehicle cost).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A number of key policy issues will be addressed in order to improve the contribution of the urban
transport sector to the urban economy.
Institutional issues: The CETUD will be strengthened in its regulatory, managerial, and financial
capacity.
Environmental issues: The reduction of the environmental impacts of the urban congestion will be
effected through: (a) the allocation of responsibilities across government levels for enforcement and
definition of tougher standards; (b) improvement of traffic management and control; (c) strengthening of
traffic safety education and the enforcement of traffic regulation. The increased use of rail-based transport
will reduce air and noise pollution in the Project area and lead to fewer accidents and less traffic
congestion. Air pollution is by its nature a cross-sectoral issue, arising from the transport, energy, industry,
commercial, and domestic sectors. The Project will support closer coordination between major agencies and
the stakeholders responsible for generating air pollution.
Public transport priority scheme: Bus operators are mostly unable to operate smoothly on city roads due
to inadequate or non-existent traffic management measures. The operation of both slow- and fast-moving
traffic sharing the same right-of-way imposes delays, reduces the number of possible trips, and increases
pollution and operating costs. The Project will implement a comprehensive traffic management action plan
to mitigate these problems.
Transport planning issues: Transport planning, complemented by accurate traffic data and traffic
management, will be coordinated by CETUD. An integrated land use and air quality strategy will also be
designed and implemented.
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed Project is a poverty-focused intervention, aimed at improving the safe mobility of
those most affected by the persistent urban transport crisis in Dakar, the urban poor.
The direct economic benefits of the Project would be to: (a) reduce vehicle operating costs and
travel time through mitigating traffic congestion, delays, and air pollution; and (b) improve pedestrian
safety in the Dakar metropolitan area. Substantial benefits will be realized by existing buses and minibuses
through a better operating environment which would enable them to travel at a faster speed and improve
cost recovery.
By achieving more effective management of road assets, including better utilization of existing road
capacity, the Project will also improve the value-for-money for public spending on roads.
In addition, the introduction of new public transport vehicles combined with the upgrading of
suburban railway services, resulting in increased capacity and better quality of service, would greatly
improve traffic flow, extend accessibility of public transport services in remote areas, generate/maintain
employment opportunities on a sustainable basis, and reduce the level of air pollution generated by
motorized traffic. The urban productivity in the Dakar metropolitan area and the quality of life would be
expected to improve.
- 16 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
APL Implementation period: FY 2001-2007
APL Proposed Project Phase 1: FY 2001-2004
APL Phase 2: FY 2005-2007
The Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MET) will be the supervisory ministry. The CETUD
will act as the implementing agency, under the technical guidance of the MET and the financial tutelage of
the Ministry of Finance and Plan (MFP). SNCS will be the implementing agency for the measures to
improve pedestrian and traffic safety along the suburban railway line (Component 2). A Project Agreement
will be signed between IDA and the "Leasing Cooperative" (Association de Financement) for
implementation of the component related to the leasing scheme.
The CETUD is composed of two main bodies: (a) the AssemblIe Pleniere, which comprises the
three major actors in the sector: ministries, local government, and the transport industry operators; and (b)
the Permanent Secretariat, acting as the technical and regulatory body. The President of CETUD is
appointed by the President of the Republic, after a vote of the AssemblIe Pleniere. The CETUD's
Permanent Secretariat will run along private sector management lines, subject to budgetary checks,
controls, and audit requirements as prescribed by law or under the IDA Credit Agreement.
The Project has set forth benchmarks and performance indicators (Annex 11) to evaluate progress
on individual components. The figures related to these indicators were discussed during appraisal and
agreed upon during the technical negotiations. They will be reviewed periodically to assess achievement
against performance standards and the implementation schedule. After two years a mid-term review will be
conducted jointly by IDA and the GOS to assess overall progress and project implementation performance.
The CETUD will also coordinate action plans with ongoing operations directly or indirectly related to
transport, such as the CELCO (Transport II Project) and with the Agence de Developpement Municipal
(ADM) for the Urban Development and Decentralization Program.
The civil works component would be carried out by AGETIP or another qualified agency (if it is
more effective), under an agreement with the CETUD. The Project will be implemented according to a
Project Implementation Manual agreed upon at the time of credit negotiations and to be finalized by credit
effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following alternatives were considered by the Project team and discussed with the GOS.
Reasons for rejecting some alternatives are explained below.
L.A. Urban Roads and Infrastructure
Simply increasing road capacity by building new roads only was not seen as the solution. Indeed,
experience elsewhere (including in the developed and developing countries) confirms that new road capacity
quickly succumbs to increased motorized traffic unless measures are taken to manage demand. Additional
road capacity attracts additional vehicles, which in turn, increase traffic congestion, air pollution, and road
accidents.
- 17 -



Therefore, the construction/rehabilitation of urban roads will be considered only if and when
required for special technical reasons, such as considerations of road safety (including pedestrians),
efficient traffic flow, and priority for public transport.
1.B. Leasing Scheme
The following alternatives were considered:
(a) Leave the situation as it is and take no action. This alternative would present high social and
environment costs in terms of accidents, time lost in traffic congestion, and air pollution. (See economic
analysis of the leasing component.)
(b) Leasing company to be wholly-owned by the State. In such a case, a guaranteed deposit of 25 percent
of the purchase price for vehicles would be required from private operators. However, if the leasing
company were state-owned, then the moral hazard for the payment of lease installments would increase
significantly. Lowering this risk is one of the key success factors in any leasing or lending scheme.
(c) Impose the rule of strict adherence to technical norms, but leave lease financing (or other credit
alternatives) to the private financial market. Based on feedback from the local banks and leasing
companies, the private financial market is unwilling to provide any credit or leasing facility for private
operators. The private banks and leasing companies view the profession of Cars Rapides' operators as
fragmented, unprofessional, and lacking the knowledge of how to manage a financial scheme. Moreover,
the experience of imposing regulatory measures on Cars Rapides' operators has been disappointing, in the
absence of other supporting measures. The threat of sanctions is not enough of a disincentive for the private
operators to follow technical, security, and pollution norms.
(d) Arrange an operating lease rather than a financial lease. In an operating lease, the private operators
rent vehicles for a short-term period, varying from one day to six months or even a year, and the
responsibility for vehicle maintenance rests with the rental or leasing company. Under an operating lease,
the private operator would not have a sense of partial ownership of the vehicle which would be the case
under a financial lease. Furthermore, the financial structure of the leasing company providing operating
leases would be difficult, since private operators would, by definition, have the right not to renew the lease
at the end of any leasing period. In case of non-renewal, the leasing company would have to find a new
operator willing to lease the vehicle. If a new operator could not be found, the leasing company would have
to assume debt service payments on the credit subscribed to finance the vehicle, which would be financially
unsustainable for more than a few months, or would have to sell the vehicle, possibly at a distress sale
price.
1.C Urban Air Quality Management Strategy
The well-attended, December 17-18, 1998 seminar on Urban Transport and Air Quality, in Dakar,
demonstrated significant awareness among the Senegalese of the substantial level of air pollution generated
by the transport sector in the Dakar metropolitan area and its impact on human health. The GOS has
requested Bank assistance for designing and implementing its Urban Air Quality Management Strategy, the
principle for which was agreed upon during the seminar.
- 18-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.   .                              Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
__ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ _      _ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Transport                          Urban Transport Reform and        S              S
Capacity Building (TA) Project
Transport Sector Adjustment       S             S
and Investment Program
(completed)
Urban/Water                        Second Public Works &             S              S
Employment Project
(completed)
Community Nutrition Project       S             S
Municipal and Housing             S             S
Development Project
(completed)
Urban Development and             S             S
Decentralization Program
Water Sector Project              S             S
Energy                             Energy Sector Adjustment
Project
Private Sector                     Private Sector Capacity-          S              S
Building Project
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The ongoing TA Project has helped the GOS to design and implement the initial steps of a
comprehensive urban transport reform. The establishment and operation of the CETUD is a key
development in the long-term improvement of this sector. The main lesson that is emerging is that sound
institutional reform is a prerequisite for any major investments in the sector. Implementation of the TA
Project was slow until mid-1999. The reasons included a lack of familiarity with Bank procedures and the
need to obtain conclusions of major studies for the selection, design, and execution of civil works. These
problems will be mitigated in the proposed operation by measures such as strengthening of CETUID's
managerial and financial capacity and improved monitoring tools and procedures.
The Project will also integrate lessons learned from the SSATP: (a) that urban transport is a
complex and interactive process; (b) simultaneous action is needed on many fronts--policies, institutions,
planning, operation and management, infrastructure construction, and other investments. It does not help to
solve one problem if others are ignored. The proposed operation will, therefore, follow the comprehensive
approach that was defined in the GOS Urban Transport Policy Letter. (c) Finally, lessong and experiences
from urban transport projects in other parts of the world demonstrate that for urban transport to become
sustainable, priority should be given to moving people and goods, rather than accommodating more
- 19-



vehicles.
Experience with transport as well as urban projects in Senegal holds the following major lessons:
(i) stakeholders' participation is essential to ensure ownership of the project; (ii) private sector development
has to be secured on a sustainable and long-term basis; and (iii) sector investments need to rest on
regulatory changes that provide incentives and guarantees on issues, such as reimbursement and political
risks.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The ownership of the Project by the stakeholders was sought during preparation through
consultation, organized by CETUD, with the three major stakeholder groups: the ministries, local
government, and the transport industry. Operators and representatives of trade unions, public transport
users, and the education community were involved in issues such as road safety, sector financing, traffic
management, and air pollution. The academic community (University of Dakar) was associated with the
identification of the Urban Air Quality Management Strategy. Seminars and workshops have been held in
Dakar over the past 18 months with considerable participation of sector representatives.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added by the Bank in the UMIP has to be viewed within the context of: (a) the regional
partnership designed to assist African authorities in designing and implementing policy reforms (the
SSATP, coordinated by the World Bank); and (b) the Bank's role in Senegal's urban transport sector during
the past years.
As a leading supporter of the transport sector in Senegal, the Bank has played a key leadership and
coordinating role with other donors to ensure policy reform, and it has provided critical advice and helped
create a favorable climate for capacity building, encouraging the GOS to assume a greater role in all
aspects of project activities. Continued Bank involvement in the sector would ensure coordination between
reform in the transport sector and the overall economic program.
As the local leasing market has been unable to provide any significant support for financing the
existing fleet of Cars Rapides, the Bank is well-placed to promote leasing as a viable financing instrument
in the context of the professionalization of Cars Rapides' owners.
Bank value added in project implementation is expected in the areas of traffic management,
pollution control, and private sector development.  The Bank has extensive experience in railway
concessioning, including suburban railway services, which will be valuable for the design and
implementation of the concessioning scheme. Finally, the SSATP umbrella will provide regional inputs on
issues such as road safety, operation of urban transport microenterprises, non-motorized transport, and
capacity building.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$79.37 million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
-20 -



The economic analysis examined the impact of the proposed investments by performing
cost-benefit calculations of "with and without" scenarios. They include separate computations for the three
main Project components: (i) road rehabilitation; (ii) establishment of a leasing scheme for the renewal of
the local public transport fleet and buses; and (iii) basic security measures to ensure the safety of
pedestrians and other traffic along the suburban railway line.
The ERR figures were calculated on the basis of the benefits described below (for a comprehensive
analysis, see Annex 4). The analyses for the pedestrian and traffic safety along the suburban railway line
took account of: (i) cost savings as a consequence of improvements in the transport system; and (ii) health
improvements as a result of reduced air pollution. The leasing scheme analysis incorporated: (i) the value
of improved passenger safety as a consequence of safer public transport vehicles; and (ii) the actual
payments of the lessees to the established leasing fund. Measuring and quantifying benefits external to the
sector were not fully captured in the cost-benefit calculation, since such benefits are not expressed in the
demand curves. These benefits could, however, be taken into account and added to the direct benefits
mentioned above.
The proposed Project will benefit the population in greater Dakar by reducing the negative
externalities associated with the large expansion of the city in recent years. It will: (a) improve the safety
of passengers and pedestrians using the transport network; (b) reduce the number of hours lost on traveling
to and from the center of the city; (c) reduce vehicle operating costs as a consequence of greater speed and
reduced traveling time; (d) extend public transport services to currently unserved areas; (e) reduce health
costs associated with air pollution related diseases; (f) renovate some of the local transport vehicles; and (g)
improve the suburban rail system's quality of service and increase the number of passengers.
A reduction of 10 percent in Dakar's traffic congestion, as a consequence of the Project, could save
US$79.37 million each year, and a further reduction up to 20 percent in traffic congestion could save
US$158.75 million each year.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The project will not pose a significant fiscal burden on the country during its life time or after
project completion. It will indeed ensure that the cost of services in the urban transport sector remains
affordable and that appropriate dispositions be taken so as not to discriminate against poor passengers in
the delivery of public transport. Affordability of services and consumer's willingness to pay will be
monitored, aiming to make the under-served groups the principal beneficiaries of this project.
3. Technical:
Most of the Project components focus on simple, low-technology measures, such as traffic signals,
marking 'bus lanes, road safety measures, including construction of sidewalks, footbridges, and bus stops,
the laying of a third rail for the suburban railway line, as well as grade crossings and fencing of the
right-of-way along the line. The design and implementation of the Urban Air Quality Management
Strategy would require specific expertise, but development of local applications of internationally
well-known solutions would not require more than general experimentation. The SSATP umbrella will help
- 21 -



reinforce regional expertise in the field of air pollution, as part of its program of capacity building.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The CETUD will act as the implementing agency, under the technical tutelage of the Ministry of
Equipment and Transport and the financial tutelage of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The civil
works component will be carried out by AGETIP or another qualified agency, under an agreement with
CETUD. The SNCS will implement the component related to pedestrian and traffic safety along the
suburban railway line. The Leasing Cooperative will implement the financial part of the component for the
leasing scheme under a Project Agreement to be signed with IDA.
b. Project management:
Institutional coordination. Over the last 24 months, the CETUD has demonstrated an increasing
institutional capacity for designing and monitoring urban transport initiatives and activities. Its relationship
with key actors, such as municipalities, ministries, and operators, rests on a sound professional basis. Its
expertise is expected to be strengthened further under the UMIP.
Suburban railway line. The design of legal instruments for the concessioning, such as the concession
agreement, public-service obligation contract, and trackage right of use with SNCS, will require specific
expertise. The Bank's experience with privatization and concessioning of railway companies will help in
the design and implementation of the concessioning scheme. In addition, institutional and technical support
for the GOS is included in the Project.
5. Social:
Project benefits--safe travel and travel time savings--will enhance the well-being of Dakar's
population. The accessibility of low-income people to employment centers will be greatly improved.
Construction of sidewalks, pedestrian facilities, and footbridges would make for a safer travel environment
for low-income groups. The increased efficiency of the urban transport system will be particularly
beneficial to women who are important users of public transport for access to markets as well as health and
social centers. No negative social impacts are expected from the proposed Project.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
The Project's overall aim is to have a positive impact on the urban environment. The Project will
focus on easing traffic congestion through various interventions. Some of these relate to the environment
and they include: promotion of the use of public transport (Cars Rapides and the urban/suburban railway
line), provision of pedestrian facilities, and strengthening of institutions. Since the planned civil works are
either minor or within the existing rights-of-way of the suburban railway line, involuntary resettlement will
not occur.
An environmental assessment (EA) for the Project was prepared. A provisional report was
submitted to the Bank on February 28, 2000 and the final version is expected by early May 2000. The
analysis of the environmental and social impacts of Project activities was made in consultation with the
relevant stakeholders through interviews and surveys. Civil works related to the railway component include
relocation of some markets. The EA benefited from extensive consultations with potentially affected
populations, municipal authorities, and other relevant stakeholders to discuss proposed activities and
mitigation measures.
- 22 -



Implementation of the overall environmental management plan (EMP) will be supervised by
CETUD. The proposed EMP provides for the integration of mitigation measures into the project design and
implementation where feasible. Several ministries and relevant authorities and organizations will be
involved in implementing and monitoring the mitigation measures. Environmental contract clauses for civil
works have been proposed and will be integrated into the contracts. The EMP includes a monitoring plan
with the appropriate institutional arrangements. This can contribute to an analysis of the environmental
impact of the Project.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Preparation of the UMIP as well as the design and implementation of the ongoing TA Project
adopted a fundamentally participatory approach. Continuing consultations, organized by CETUD over the
past 24 months, have permitted a fruitful sector dialogue involving municipalities, ministries, transport
operators, and transport associations. An indication of this continuing sector dialogue (institutionalized
within the CETUD General Assembly) was the signing, in October 1999, of a Letter of Agreement by
major representatives of the Cars Rapides on the leasing scheme proposed in the Project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
During project preparation, key govemment agencies, active donors (the Swedish Intemational
Development Agency, NDF, and AFD), and academic institutions, such as the University of Dakar, were
consulted at various stages of project design. Consultation with local stakeholders will remain an integral
element of project implementation and monitoring.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Leasing Scheme: Even with the strong need to renew and rehabilitate the Cars Rapides fleet, no
supply response has been forthcoming from of the market so far because of the perceived high risk of any
credit or leasing scheme by the private banking and leasing profession. This risk has been recognized
up-front in the proposed Project. Accordingly, the preparation of this component focused on devising a
series of measures aimed at mitigating the risk of payment or technical default under the scheme.
(a) Phasing of the pilot project: Phase 1 of the proposed APL will provide support to the development of
the leasing scheme through a pilot project. The scope of this component in this phase is deliberately limited
and the planned investment kept to US$25.20 million (including US$0.5 million to strengthen the
managerial and financial capacity of Cars Rapides' operators). It is only under Phase 2, based on the
progress achieved and lessons learned during Phase I and the 25 percent down payment by the operators,
that most of the identified needs for the renewal and rehabilitation of old public transport vehicles would be
met.
(b) Private operators to be certified eligible for the scheme: Only certified private operators will be
eligible for access to the proposed financing facility. To be certified as professionally proficient, a private
operator will have to follow an introductory training program on the basic principles of fleet management
and undertake to hire only drivers who have undertaken professional training in driving public transport
- 23 -



vehicles and a technical training program.
(c) Private operators must belong to a professional partnership (G.I.E.): Eligible private operators
must belong to one of the G.I.E.s which will be constituted as professional partnerships. The G.I.E.s, and
not the individual private operators, will enter into leasing agreements with the leasing cooperative through
the private manager. Any G.I.E. that defaults under a leasing agreement it has entered into, will become
ineligible for any new leasing agreement until the defaults are paid.
(d) Vehicles to be insured with accredited insurance companies: The vehicles to be financed will be
covered under an insurance policy for civil responsibility, theft, fire, and third-party collision damage,
subscribed by a G.I.E. with one of the insurance companies which will be accredited by the Ministry of
Finance and satisfactory to IDA.
(e) Operators eligible to be members of the leasing cooperative: In order to be eligible for the leasing
scheme, the private operators will have to be members of the leasing cooperative. They will contribute an
amount equal to 25 percent of the amount of their participation in the leasing scheme to the cooperative's
capital. Accordingly, private operators will have a significant pecuniary interest in the success of the
scheme and a strong sense of ownership in it. The mandate for management of the leasing cooperative will
be given to a private professional manager (such as a bank, financial institution, or accounting firm),
selected through competitive bidding. The manager will be charged with the administration and financial
management of the leasing cooperative under a management contract.
(f) Mutual guarantee fund: A monthly contribution, equal to 3 percent of the monthly lease payment, will
be added to each monthly lease payment paid by the private operators and placed in a mutual guarantee
fund, managed by a local bank or financial institution satisfactory to IDA. The initial endowment of the
mutual guarantee fund, to be equal to three monthly lease payments, will be financed under the proposed
Project. The leasing cooperative will have the right to draw on the guarantee fund to make up for any
shortfall in the monthly lease payments of a G.I.E.
(g) Semi-annual technical check: The public transport vehicles to be financed will be subject to
semi-annual technical checks that will be performed by the technical control center to be set up and
financed under the proposed Project. The concession for the operation of the control center will be granted
to a private, specialized professional operator selected through competitive bidding. Detailed technical
specifications and perfonnance indicators will be included in the concession agreement.
(h) Affordability of the scheme: One of the key factors affecting the sustainability of the scheme is the
affordability of the lease payments relative to the monthly net operating revenues generated by the leased
vehicles. An analysis of Cars Rapides' operating costs (other than financing) shows that, under the new
mode of operations in the proposed reform, the net operating revenue needed to cover the financing costs
and to remunerate Cars Rapides' owners is approximately FCFA 550,000 per month. Based on this
estimate, the lease payment coverage ratio would range from 1.39 for the leasing of a new vehicle costing
FCFA 32 million to 2.13 for a rehabilitated vehicle costing FCFA 14 million, as shown in the table below:
(All amounts in FCFA)
Vehicle               New Vehicle            New Vehicle       Rehabilitated Vehicle
(FCFA 32 million)     (FCFA 22 million)     (FCFA 14 million)
Net operating revenues             550,000               550,000               550,000
Monthly lease payment              395,000               285,000               258,000
Lease payment coverage ratio        1.39                   1.93                  2.13
- 24 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Local budget for maintenance of the civil  M        Yearly budget allocation identified by the GOS
works (such as roads and terminals) not             Due diligence clause and credit covenants
committed
Inadequate coordination among different    M         Coordination between CETUD and other
line agencies, weak project management              agencies reinforced
capacities
Old Cars Rapides are not withdrawn from    M        The GOS will undertake the appropriate
circulation                                         measures. Rate of withdrawal will be a
performance indicator
Non-compliance with maintenance policy     H         Semi-annual technical control of the vehicles by
by Cars Rapides' operators and drivers              independent contractor; private operators and
drivers to be suspended from the scheme in case
of non-compliance
Ineffective law enforcement                H         Strong ownership of the scheme and high
commitmnent by the GOS
Excessive payment defaults by private      M        Phasing of the scheme with performnance
operators and G.I.E.s                               indicators to prevent further disbursements;
strong commitment to the scheme by private
operators' associations; individual private
operator is eligible for the scheme only through
a G.I.E.; leasing is provided by leasing
cooperative with 25% of financing contributed
by the participating operators
Failure to implement the concessioning of  S         Disbursement of the component related to the
suburban railway services                           upgrading of suburban railway infrastructure
conditioned on satisfactory progress in
implementation of the concessioning scheme
From Components to Outputs
Preparation and sequencing of civil works  M        CETUD coordination with other agencies
components not effective                             involved (municipalities, Ministry of
Equipment)
Difficult traffic diversion management     S         Comprehensive preparation, involving all
plans during implementation of civil                 concerned agencies, sequencing of civil works,
works                                                and preparation in advance of traffic diversion
Excessive acquisition and rehabilitation   N         International competitive bidding: large supply
costs of the Cars Rapides                           of these types of public transport vehicles
Withdrawal from the scheme by Cars         N        Formal commitment from all the main operators'
Rapides' operator associations                       associations obtained
Unsuccessful bidding for the management    N         Low risk attached to this function; required
of the leasing cooperative                           expertise is available in the local banking and
financial sector
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 25 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N.A.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following credit effectiveness conditions were agreed upon with the GOS, "the Borrower":
* The Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and SNCS has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and SNCS;
* The Association de Financement (AF) has been established in accordance with the laws of the
Borrower and its statutes have been adopted;
* The Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and AF;
* The Borrower has established a financial accounting and procurement management system acceptable to
IDA;
* The Borrower has appointed the auditors with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to IDA;
* The Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form and substance acceptable to
IDA;
* The Borrower has adopted the Environmental Mitigation Plan, satisfactory to IDA;
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement condition:
Suburban Railway Line: With the exception of the investments related to safety along the suburban
railway line, the disbursement of this component will be subject to satisfactory progress in the process of
concessioning the suburban railway services to the private sector (release of the Request For Technical
Proposals for the concessioning).
H. Readiness for Implementation
L] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 26 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
52 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
7L A/                            _    _    _    _    _             ___
Patrick Bultynck                 Letitia A. Obeng                  Mahmood A. Ayub
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-27-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SENEGAL: URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Hirrcyof  bjetvs'dc~                            Monitorin  & Ev ain         CiiAl Asmtons
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators;        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support policies and      Progressive increase in    Bank Reports (Economic and  Risks:
investments that will     infrastructure system's    Sector Work)               1/ Complementary measures
encourage economic growth  capacity and urban                                   are not taken in other sectors
and social development    productivity above baseline    Urban Mobility Improvement (e.g., finance, efficiency of
levels                    Project Supervision Missions  markets) to raise living
Contribution of the Project to                       (policy advice and project    standards of the urban poor.
CAS objectives:                                      funding)                   2/ Macroeconomic stability
1/ Contribution to        Reduced infrastructure     Mid-term Review           Assumptions:
environmentally sustainable  bottlenecks                                        1/ Inappropriate design of
growth by reducing the burden                                                   road infrastructure in urban
of traffic congestion and air                                                   areas hampers safe and rapid
pollution on GDP                                                                flow of traffic
2/ Sustainable economic
2/ Poverty reduction and                                                        growth relies on private sector
improvement in living     Substantial reduction in the                          growth along with social
conditions of the urban poor  costs of externalities generated                  equity (distribution)
by the urban transport sector                        3/ Improvements in road
3/ Private sector development on urban productivity                             capacity and efficiency will
(estimated in November 1998                          mainly benefit the operation
at 4.7% of GDP)                                      of public transport services
- 28 -



KeyPerformance
Hierarchy of Qbjectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Gritical: Assumptions
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:         (from Purpose to Goal)
Efficiency, reliability, quality, (December 2007)    Project Completion Report
and safety of urban mobility   * Urban road network and
improved in the metropolitan  urban transport infrastructure
area of Dakar             (sidewalks, crossroads, and
bus stations and stops) in
Dakar rehabilitated,
End of Phase I:           maintained, and redesigned to
Rehabilitation of most of the  promote public transport and
urban road network, partial   assure pedestrian safety
renewal/rehabilitation of the
public transport fleet, portion  * Suburban railway line
of a comprehensive road safety rehabilitated and managed by
and traffic management    a private operator through a
scheme designed and       concessioning mechanism
implemented, basic measures
and investments carried out to * Improved contribution of the
improve pedestrian and traffic urban transport sector to
safety along the suburban  urban productivity through the
railway line, the Urban Air  reduction of extemalities
Quality Management Strategy generated (air pollution,
designed, approved, and   traffic congestion, road
implemented, and local    accidents)
capacity and sector efficiency
reinforced
Triggers (by component) for
moving to Phase 2
Rehabilitation of urban road   75 % of the urban roads  AGETIP (or other authorized
network, complemented by   rehabilitated during Phase 1   agency) reports
road safety and traffic   operational and maintained
management measures.      Maintenance budget available Budget for maintenance
approved and committed
Urban Mobility Plan prepared Sector consultation finalized,
with stakeholders         Urban Mobility Plan approved
by the GOS
Pedestrian and traffic safety   Adoption of an intermodal    Document approved by the
along the suburban railway    plan integrating the railway   GOS
line assured              Concessioning of the       Concession contract with the
operation of the suburban  private operator signed
railway line to a private
operator
- 29 -



Urban Transport Leasing   90% of the lease payments due Financial account
scheme (financial credit and  and payable by the operators
capacity building)        under the leasing contract has
been paid (the 10% balance
used after the trigger date of
Phase 2)
80% of the public transport
vehicles financed under the
leasing scheme operate on
specific routes under
concession agreements
Urban Air Quality         Indication of political    Update of the Urban Transport
Management                willingness to take account of Policy Letter (signed in
the relationship between  September 1996) integrating
environment and transport   environmental concerns
Reinforcement of the CETUD  Strengthening of CETUD as a Update of the law and the
capacities                regulatory institution     decree establishing CETUD
- 30 -



Key Peromaace
Hierarchy of Objectives           lndiorts           Monitoring 8 Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Efficiency, reliability, quality, 1/ Reduction in traffic  Annual traffic surveys with   Effectiveness of the
and safety of urban mobility   congestion and travel time for performance indicators  intermodal policy and transfer
improved in the metropolitan  commuters                                          between public transport
area of Dakar                                                                    modes
2/ Increases in market shares  Annual independent surveys  Improved market efficiency of
of public transport and                               operating practices
percentage of customers
satisfied with services
3/ Reduction in relative level  Regular technical control of   * Regular maintenance policy
of emissions generated by  vehicles emissions and     by Cars Rapides'
motorized vehicles         pollution control measures    owners/drivers
* Regulatory framework put in
place to reduce air pollution
generated by motorized
transport
* Growth in imported
polluting vehicles will not
overshadow pollution
reduction
4/ Reduction in the number of Bulletin d'Analyse des  Effectiveness of road safety
fatalities caused by traffic  Accidents Corporels     campaigns and trainingfor
accidents along the Project's                         Cars Rapides' drivers
main road corridors
5/ Decrease in the costs of    Regular update of the study on
externalities generated by  cost of externalities (carried
motorized transport as     out in November 1998)
percentage of GDP
- 31 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Key urban roads targeted   1. 1. Some 39 kilometers. of   Project M&E system  * Budget for maintenance
for improved public transport urban roads constructed or    + AGETIP Reports    committed
and pedestrian mobility are   rehabilitated                                     * Timely procurement of
constructed/rehabilitated and                                                   works, equipment, and
maintained, complemented by                                                     consultants
road safety and traffic    1.2. Sixty cross-roads    Project M&E system         * Effective coordination with
management action plans    redesigned and rehabilitated   + AGETIP Reports      all the stakeholders involved
(municipalities)
1.3. Footbridges constructed   Project M&E system    Stakeholders ownership and
+ AGETIP Reports          road users are critical
1.4. Some 135,000 square    Project M&E system       Sidewalks kept clear of illegal
meters of sidewalks       + AGETIP Reports           encroachment and maintained
constructed or rehabilitated
Consistent traffic management
regulation implemented
1.5. Bus lanes established  Project M&E system
+ AGETIP Reports          Public awareness campaigns
1.6. Speeds bumps in place to  Project M&E system    conducted regularly during
reduce the vehicle speed   + AGETIP Reports          Project implementation
1. 7. Fourteen bus stops and   Project M&E system
terminals constructed      + AGETIP Reports
1.8. Two awareness        Independent survey by NGOs
campaigns launched yearly
2. Pedestrian and traffic safety 2.1. Laying of a third rail    Project M&E system  Progress made in the
are ensured along the                                SNCS reports               concessioning process
suburban railway line     2.2. Fencing of the        Project M&E system
right-of-way               SNCS reports
2.3. Safety measures       Project M&E system
implemented                SNCS reports
2.4. Transfer of the freight    Project M&E system
terminal                   SNCS reports
2.5. Signaling equipment  Project M&E system
rehabilitated              SNCS reports
2.6. Rehabilitation of two  Project M&E system
railways stations          SNCS reports
- 32 -



3. Urban Transport Leasing   3.1. Old minibuses replaced   Annual Report of the  Withdrawal of the old Cars
Scheme for urban transport  and funded by the Leasing    Financing Cooperative  Rapides from operation
operators is operational and   Scheme (estimates of 300 new                     Extension of their financing
professional expertise of the   and 600 second-hand vehicles)                   beyond Project
operators is improved                                                           implementation
3.2 Basic management      Independent assessment by    Effectiveness of participation
training sessions provided for NGOs
owners of Cars Rapides
4. An enforceable and     4.1 Air Pollution Abatement                           Public transport users
affordable Urban Quality  Measures defined and                                  response to abatement
Management Strategy is    implemented                                           measures is favorable
designed, implemented, and                                                      Enough traffic diverted from
monitored                 4. 2. Support for the                                 city center to reduce traffic
implementation of an Urban                           congestion and promote
Quality Management Plan,                              accessibility
including the phasing-out of                         Enforcement and vehicle
leaded gasoline                                      compliance with technical
4.3. Training sessions on                             standards
maintenance practices
5. Local expertise in land use, 5.1 Studies on urban transport
air pollution, and urban  carried out
transport is strengthened and  5.2. Core municipal staff                        Staff knowledge gained and
the operation and expertise of trained in urban planning and                    incorporated into professional
CETUD improved            transportation                                        practices
5.3. Decreasing financial
support to CETUD for
operating costs
- 33 -



Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Implementation of a    US$42.40 million           Progress reports and       * Timely availability of
Program for urban                                    disbursement reports       counterpart funds
infrastructure constructionl
rehabilitation and road
safety and traffic
management measures
1I.1 Urban roads' rehabilitation US$10.30 million                               * Timely procurement of
1.2. Cross-roads'         US$10.70 million                                      works, equipment, and
rehabilitation            US$0.26 million                                        consultants
1.3 Construction of
footbridges               US$1.62 million                                       * Local support for all project
1.4 Construction of sidewalks US$1.16 million                                   components is ensured
1.5 Traffic Management
measures                  US$0.50 million
1.6 Protection of
non-motorized transport   US$1 1.10 million
1.7 Construction of bus
terminals/bus stations    US$3.70 million
1.8 Engineering studies and
supervision               US$2.55 million
1.9 Measures to protect the
environment               US$0.50 million
1.10 Road user awareness
campaigns
2. Pedestrian and traffic    US$21.10 million         Progress reports and
safety along the suburban                            disbursement reports
railway line
2.1 Laying of a third track    US$4.05 million
between Hann and Fass Mbao
2.2 Fencing of the        US$8.45 million
right-of-way between Cymos
and Fass Mbao (24 km) as
well as in densely populated
areas, such as Mbao and
Rufisque
2.3 Improvement of railroad  US$3.70 million
level crossings
2.4 Transfer of the freight   US$0.85 million
terminal from Dakar center to
Bel Air
2.5 Rehabilitation of the  US$0.34 million
signaling between Dakar and
Rufisque
2.6 Rehabilitation of the  US$2.60 million
Dakar central railway station
and the Rufisque railway
station
- 34 -



2.7 Engineering studies and  US$1.1 Imillion
support for the concessioning
process
3. Financial and technical   US$25.2 million
support for renewal of the
old public transport fleet
3.1 Credit to the Leasing  US$24.8 million (25% will be                       Price stability of the foreign
Company                   financed by the private                             components of imported
3. 2. Institutional support to  operators)                                    vehicles
the private operators (training/
capacity building)        US$0.40 million
4. Design and             US$9.00 million
implementation of an Urban
Quality Management
Strategy
4.1 Construction of and   US$6.50 million
equipment for three technical US$1.70 million
vehicle control centers,
engineering studies, and
supervision               US$0.80 million
4.2 Support for adoption of an
Urban Air Quality
Management Strategy
4.3 Strengthening of local
capacity in air pollution issues
5. Studies, capacity
building, and institutional
strengthening of CETUD
5.1 Studies and monitoring
tools                     US$0.90 million
5.2 Training programs for the
sector                    US$1.02 million
5.3 Operating costs of
CETUD
Key performance and Monitoring Indicators:
See Annex 11, "Toward an Urban Mobility Charter "for a complete set of performance indicators.
- 35 -



Annex 2: Project Description
SENEGAL: URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
The objective of the UMIP is to contribute to the improvement of the safety, efficiency, and
environmental quality of urban mobility in Dakar metropolitan area, and for road safety in Thies and
Kaolack. The Project includes five components. The costs below include provision for physical
contingencies and inflation, but not taxes.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$42.40 million
Construction and rehabilitation of road infrastructure and traffic management measures
This component consists of rehabilitation and construction of road infrastructure, including local
drainage improvements, primarily for the development of public transport and safe movement of
pedestrians in the Dakar metropolitan area. Several existing roads will be rehabilitated or improved, in
some cases, through simple improvements, such as repaving or traffic markings. The Project will not be
funding any significant new roads. It will include reconstruction and expansion of existing roadways,
resurfacing of some roads, opening up districts poorly served by public transport services, as well as
widening of roads in some areas. A detailed list of civil works to be carried out is provided in the "Etude
d'evaluation d'investissements routiers de base pour l'amelioration de la mobilite urbaine i Dakar"
(September 1999) and finalized during the appraisal mission (Aide Memoire of February 2000).
Priority will be given to: (a) investments to improve the safe flow of public transport vehicles and
the safety of pedestrians and other road users; and (b) the hierarchical organization of traffic lanes.
The component will include significant road safety measures: the design and implementation of a
road safety action plan for the Dakar urban area, Thies, and Kaolack, as a follow-up to the study to
identify "blackspots" carried out as part of the TA Project. Such safety measures include: (a) the
management of accident-prone junctions (identified as traffic accident blackspots) in Dakar, Thies, and
Kaolack; (b) investments in road infrastructure and equipment, including the construction/improvement of
sidewalks, pedestrian footbridges over roads with heavy traffic, installation of upright and surface signs,
lighting, and markings, installation of speed-reducing devices at specific locations (such as schools and
hospitals), protection of non-motorized traffic (through the construction of paths separated from motorized
traffic), construction of road median dividers; and (c) awareness campaigns for transport users and
operators, together with training of traffic police to improve traffic enforcement capacity.
Finally, traffic engineering management measures will be a part of this component to make better
use of existing facilities for movement of persons and goods. These will include: (a) the construction and
management of standard bus and Cars Rapides' terminals and road-rail feeder stations at the following
urban locations: Bargny, Embassy of Japan, Camberene 2, Fast Food Le Regal, Malika, Lamine Gueye,
Port Bel Air, Leclerc, Ouakam, Liberte V, Palais de Justice, SCAT Urbam, Sendou, and Yoff Village; (b)
the construction of bus stop areas to enable mass transit vehicles to stop and allow passengers to board and
exit safely; (c) the construction of terminals (for buses and Cars Rapides) at the following urban areas,
Abattoir de Hann, Hann Plage, Rufisque, SOTIBA, and Thiaroye-Icotaf; (d) the construction of stations on
the outskirts of Dakar to alleviate downtown congestion from inter-urban traffic, especially heavy vehicles
(Gare gros porteurs de Diamniadio); (e) the construction of taxi terminals and parking facilities in Pikine,
Guediawaye, Rufisque Goye Mouride, Rufisque Arafat, and Bargny; (f) the provision of bus lanes along
selected priority bus routes; (g) the preparation of an Urban Mobility Plan (Plan de Diplacement dans
lAgglomeration de Dakar) to integrate rail and road modes of transport, urban planning, and housing,
- 36 -



including the purchase of mapping equipment; and (h) improved land use planning. Bus stations and
terminals are expected to be managed by private operators under concessioning schemes.
This component also provides for studies, engineering, and supervision activities.
Project Component 2 - US$21.10 million
Pedestrian and traffic safety along the suburban railway line
This component is expected to improve the security of movement (of pedestrians as well as
motorized and railway traffic) along the suburban railway line through the rehabilitation of some of the
infrastructure used by the suburban railway services, which will operated in the future by a private
concessionaire. The detailed characteristics of the service to be provided and the equipment to be used by
the concessionaire will be deternined when the concession is awarded.
The investments planned under this component consist of: (a) the construction of a third track
between Hann and Fass Mbao; (b) fencing of the railway right-of-way between Cymos and Fass Mbao (24
km) as well as in densely populated areas, such as Mbao and Rufisque, and construction of 15 footbridges;
(c) elimination of the most-trafficked railroad level grade crossings through construction of 4 overpasses
and underpasses and the improvement of other level grade crossings in Hann, Marche aux Poissons,
Thiaroye, and Rufisque; (d) transfer of the freight terminal from Dakar Center to Bel Air; (e) rehabilitation
of the signaling between Dakar and Rufisque, and (f) rehabilitation of the Dakar central railway station of
Dakar and the Rufisque railway station as architectural landmarks. This component also includes studies,
engineering, and supervision tasks.
The future private concessionaire is expected to finance investments in rolling stock and
maintenance facilities and will finance or co-finance with the GOS (under a scheme to be determined)
infrastructure investments which are not included in the Project (such as upgrading of signaling and
telecommunications stations). Satisfactory progress in the process of concessioning suburban rail services
to the private sector will be a condition for disbursement of this component (some disbursements will be
triggered by release of the Request for Technical Proposals for the concession and some by the
concessioning award).
This component will also support the process of concessioning of suburban railway services
through consulting services (pre-selection of potential strategic shareholders in the concession company,
preparation of Requests for Technical Proposals and Financial Proposals, evaluation of technical and
financial proposals, and supervision of the implementation of the concession).
Project Component 3 - US$ 25.20 million
Financial supportfor the development of a leasing mechanism
This component is to provide financial support for the development of a leasing mechanism
necessary for the renovation and rehabilitation of mass transit vehicles, such as Cars Rapides. The
activities planned include: (a) strengthening the technical, managerial, and operational capacity of Cars
Rapides operators, and (b) a financing scheme incorporating leasing contracts to enable Cars Rapides'
operators to upgrade their fleet by purchasing either new vehicles (about 300 vehicles) or rehabilitated and
refurbished vehicles (approximately 600 vehicles) which meet safety and toxic emissions standards. The
owners/operators will finance 25 percent of the vehicle purchase costs through their down payments.
- 37 -



Project Component 4 - US$9.00 million
Urban Air Quality Management Strategy
This component is to improve air quality in the Dakar metropolitan area through a combination of
actions, investments, and public awareness activities. The initiatives will focus on: (a) constructing three
automobile monitoring centers, the Diamniadiao pilot station, the Keur Massar station, and the former TP
SOM station; (b) establishing an observatory to monitor urban air pollution in the Dakar metropolitan area;
(c) supporting implementation and supervision of an Urban Air Quality Management Strategy, including
but not limited to the gradual introduction of unleaded gasoline, support for decentralization of some
administrative centers to the outskirts of the city, public awareness campaigns targeting users and sector
specialists (such as automobile and fuel distributors), and a toxic emissions control program targeting
motorized vehicles; and (d) conducting awareness campaigns and consultation meetings with road users and
the transport industry, including the Societi Africaine de Raffinage and fuel dealers. The design,
implementation and supervision of the Urban Air Quality Management Strategy will benefit from the
support of the Clean Air Initiative in Sub-Saharan African Cities, launched in 1998 by the Urban Mobility
Component of the SSATP, in partnership with the World Bank Institute.
Project Component 5 - US$4.62 million
Capacity building and institutional supportfor CETUD
This component is to: (a) strengthen sector capacity to manage air pollution, road safety, land use,
intermodal transport policy and promotion of public transport, urban planning, as well as to provide tools
and techniques for evaluating the sector's performance and management capacities; support will also be
provided for implementation of the WHV prevention campaigns in urban areas; (b) prepare ad hoc studies
and assessments on urban transport, air pollution, and urban planning, consistent with the city's physical
growth and land-use master plan, a Long-term Urban Mobility Strategic Plan that would identify different
public transport options to meet the Dakar's future needs; this will also include feasibility studies to prepare
Phase 2 of the APL; and (c) pursue the sector institutional reforms and support CETUD in its capacity as
the Project executing agency and regulatory authority for urban transport in the Dakar metropolitan area.
The Project will provide institutional support, including project supervision and management, financial
management, and performance and monitoring tools through consultant services and equipment.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SENEGAL: URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Local       Foreign        Total
Projet Cost By Component                 US $million   US $rnilkin   US $nminibn
Construction & Rehabilitation of Road Infrastructure and road  17.50    20.04        37.54
safety and traffic management measures
Pedestrian and traffic safety along the suburban railway line  4.80     13.80         18.60
Financial support for the development of a leasing mechanism  4.50      17.40        21.90
Urban Air Quality Management                               2.40          5.10          7.50
Capacity building and institutional support for CETUD      2.30          2.50         4.80
PPF refinancing                                            0.28          0.28          0.56
Total Baseline Cost                                       31.78         59.12         90.90
Physical Contingencies                                    3.20          5.20          8.40
Price Contingencies                                       1.60          2.10         3.70
Total Project Costs              36.58        66.42        103.00
Total Financing Required              36.58         66.42        103.00
Local       Forign       T;otal
Project Cost By Category                US $mifion    US smillion   US $nillion
Civil Works (CETUD)                                         17.60          15.78        33.38
Civil Works (SNCS)                                           4.57          12.04        16.61
Goods (CETUD)                                                4.93          18.25        23.18
Goods (SNCS)                                                 0.12           0.58         0.70
Consultant Services (CETUD)                                  3.15          10.42        13.57
Consultant Services (SNCS)                                   0.00           0.92         0.92
Training                                                     0.34           0.51         0.85
Operating Costs                                              0.72           0.18         0.90
Physical Contingencies                                       3.17           5.22         8.39
Price Contingencies                                          1.57          2.96          4.53
Total Project Costs     36.17         66.86        103.03
Total Financing Required     36.17          66.86        103.03
- 39 -



Annex 4
SENEGAL: URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Introduction
1.    The UMlP's objective is to ensure a safer, more efficient, affordable, and environmentally friendly
mobility in the Dakar metropolitan area, with particular emphasis on pedestrians and public transport.
The overall program is divided into two phases consisting of investments totaling US$103 million for the
first phase, while the investment for the second phase will be about US$31.4 million. To achieve its
objective the proposed Project envisages investments in competitive intermodal tracks (roads, railway, and
non-motorized) resulting in the reallocation of traffic among the various modes to achieve improved traffic
flow.
2.    The Dakar area, with 2.2 million inhabitants in 1998, is home to 24 percent of Senegal's
population. It has grown rapidly in recent years and is now the country's primary commercial center,
accounting for about 60 percent of GDP. Its transport network, however, has not kept pace with
population and economic growth. Lower than needed investment in the expansion of the transport network
has led to heavy traffic congestion, impeding the development of economic and commercial activities.
Dakar's share in Senegal's total vehicle fleet is 67 percent (Table 4.1), and much of it is old; only 4.3
percent of the fleet is less than 3 years old, while more than half of the private cars are 10 years old or
older. Currently there are no restrictions on the import of old vehicles used in city transport. Studies have
estimated that Dakar's total demand for public transport is 4.3 million rides per day, of which 73 percent
are motorized, 70 percent are on public transport, and 65 percent on buses or Cars Rapides.(1) The Cars
Rapides' fleet is about 3,500.
Table 4.1: Estimated Car Fleet in Dakar and Senegal, 1998
Private Cars            60,772        2,355         86,248          70.4
Autocars                7,144          162          10,215          69.9
Small Trucks            8,575          988          15,947          53.7
Trucks                  5,206          122          8,582           60.6
Working Type Trucks     1,589          38           2,437           65.2
Semi-Trailer            1,943          15           2,891           67.2
Source: Ministry of Transport
Approach
3.    The Project is part of a phased intervention program to improve traffic flow in metropolitan Dakar
as well as the safety of vehicles, passengers, and pedestrians on the city's heavily congested roads. The
economic analysis of the program deals here only with the first phase of investments. This approach has
been taken given the nature of the credit (an APL), and the difficulty of quantifying a priori the benefits of
the second phase, which would be put in place only after the first phase of the program has been
successfully completed.
- 40 -



4.    The following economic analysis examines the impact of the proposed investments by performing a
cost-benefit calculation of a "with and without" scenario for the road rehabilitation component. It includes
separate computations for three of the Project's main components:  (i) road rehabilitation; (ii)
establishment of a leasing scheme for the renewal of the informal public transport vehicles and buses; and
(iii) measures for pedestrian and traffic safety along the suburban railway. The economic rate of return
(ERR) of the road rehabilitation component is estimated at 37 percent. The figures were calculated on the
basis of:  (i) cost savings resulting from  improvements in the transport system; and (ii) health
improvements from reduced air pollution. The leasing scheme analysis incorporates: (i) the value of
improved passenger safety from the use of safer public transport vehicles; and (ii) the actual payments of
the lessees to the leasing facility that would be established.
5.    The proposed Project is expected to benefit the population of greater Dakar by reducing the
negative extemalities associated with the large expansion of the city in recent years. These externalities
have been estimated by an independent study at 4.6 percent of Senegal's GDP. (2) The Project is expected
to:
(a) improve the safety of passengers and pedestrians using the transport network (Dakar's current
high accident rate is one of the worst in Sub-Saharan Africa (see Table 4.2);
(b) reduce the amount of time lost in traveling to and from the center of the city (it is estimated
that greater Dakar's inhabitants are cuffently losing about 1.02 million hours per day);
(c) reduce vehicle operating costs as a result of shorter travel time and increased speed;
(d) extend public transport services to currently unserved areas;
(e) reduce health costs associated with air pollution related diseases (mainly respiratory and skin
diseases);
(f) renovate some of the local transport vehicles; and
(g) improve the suburban rail system's quality of service and increase its number of passengers.
6.    The Project's total cost was estimated in constant 1999 prices, including physical contingencies but
excluding taxes and interest The direct foreign component of the Project is estimated at 65 percent of the
total cost. The estimate took into account the following considerations: (i) the current price of foreign
exchange in Senegal does not reflect its true value. The equilibrium price of foreign exchange is estimated
to have a 14 percent premium, and if included in the cost-benefit calculation it would have reduced the
Project's ERR to 34 percent. (ii) Adjusting for the shadow labor rate results in no change since most of
the labor to be employed under the Project would already be engaged in the sector. It is expected that
implementation of the proposed Project will not require a major increase in staff.
7.    Measuring and quantifying benefits external to the sector are not fully captured in the cost-benefit
analysis since such effects are not accounted for in the demand curves. These benefits could, therefore, be
taken into account and added to the direct benefits mentioned above.  Spillovers, which express
divergences between the private and social costs (or benefits) are not fully reflected in policy makers'
investment decisions. Technical spillovers (affecting the production function) and pecuniary spillovers
(affecting the profits and losses of firms in the market) are usually underestimated. The stemming benefits
fiom investments in the transport sector in the Dakar area will be supported by a net income increase in
the complementary branches of the economy, which transport, manufacture, and sell products and
services.
Road Rehabilitation Economic Analysis
8.    The appraisal of the Project's road rehabilitation component quantifies the real economic costs and
benefits of improvements in the road network that would accrue from its rehabilitation and extension. A
-41 -



study on the social costs of the transport system in Dakar was performed recently. It follows the damage
evaluation method, aiming to quantify the damage attributed to each of the externalities (congestion, time
lost, and air pollution). The following analysis adapts the unit estimations calculated in the study, and
amends them to fit the Project's investments. A detailed calculation of the benefits and their ranges was
made in the sensitivity analysis.
9.  Costs. The economic costs of the component include the various type of investments necessary to
achieve improvements in the existing safety measures and the traffic flow in and around the city. These
costs include the: (i) construction, rehabilitation, and expansion of the urban road network; (ii) redesign of
various crossroads around the city; (iii) improvement of access to areas without a proper connection to the
road network; and (iv) incremental expenditures on operations and maintenance to keep the above
investments in a full operational mode. Note of caution. Since the benefits deriving from the Project are
combined, while the analysis performed is calculated separately for each of the three main Project
components, these costs were attributed proportionally to the analysis of each component. Although this
method will not have an effect on the aggregate Project ERR, it would still have a very minor impact on
the accuracy of the individual ERRs of each component and should, therefore, be treated with caution.
10. Benefits. It is expected that the Project's integrated measures and investments will generate benefits
that will improve the flow of traffic and safety and reduce the operating costs of vehicles operating in
Dakar. These consist of:
(i) Benefits from reduced accidents. The inclusion of benefits deriving from reduced accidents is
problematical, since it is hard to assess the impact that road improvements would have on the number of
accidents in Dakar.(3) The evaluation performed here estimates a range of possible reductions in the
accident rate. The benefits from reduced accidents in the cost-benefit analysis are attributed to three main
sources (4): (i) benefits from a reduction in the number of deaths; (ii) benefits from a reduction in the
number of injured (average and critical); and (iii) benefits from a reduction in the damage caused to cars
by accidents. (5) The cost-benefit analysis appearing below (Table 4.2) takes into account a conservative
rate of 10 percent reduction in the rate of the above incidents. The estimation of a loss of life, expressed
in forgone income, was based on the net loss of 20 years of equivalent income, adjusted to Senegal's GDP
figures. A 10 percent reduction in Dakar's accidents and a 20 percent in car damage has a NPV of
US$7.58 million @ a 12 percent discount rate.
Table 4.2: Accidents in Dakar (earl Statics)
E                                              :1v S.
Number of Accidents         2,318    1,899     2,462     2,969      2,412
Out of which
Number of killed people       379      180        85       309       238
Number of critically injured  2,104    1,174   1,354     2,068      1,675
Number of lightly injured   2,549    1,336     1,571     2,399      1,964
Source: Ministry of Equipment and Land Transport Statistics
(ii) Benefits from reduced congestion. A study measuring daily traffic congestion in and around Dakar
used the standard European model (EMM2) to quantify and measure transport movement and congestion.
The quantified output estimated that Dakar is currently losing 1.02 million hours per day as a result of
congested roads. Most of these losses are concentrated around two main peak periods, morning and
afternoon, when most workers go in and out of the city center. The calculation of benefits from reduced
- 42 -



congestion includes a range of possibilities, while the basic scenario includes a 10 percent reduction in
traveling time. The calculation was based on half the value of the local average hourly wage of FCFA
246 (about 38 US cents) to reflect the combination of work and leisure lost. (6) A 5 percent reduction in
Dakar's average travel time has a NPV of US$39.6 million @ a 12 percent discount rate.
(iii) Benefits from reduced operating costs. The Project is expected to reduce the average operating costs
(per km driven) as a result of: (i) reduced travel time due to increased average cruising speed, and (ii) a
reduction in repair and maintenance expenses as a consequence of road rehabilitation and extension. The
estimate of the above reduction can by no means be accurate with the available data. However, the
analysis follows a straightforward methodology based on the current variable operating estimated costs.
(7) It assumes a modest 1 percent reduction in the variable operating costs of Dakar's fleet at the end of
the Project. The 1 percent reduction in the operating variable costs is calculated only on 5,000 kilometers
per car, a distance that cars are estimated to drive yearly on the road network of Dakar region (the Project
area). A 1 percent reduction in the variable operating costs has a NPV of US$21.65 million ( a 12
percent discount rate.
(iv) Health Benefits. The data on Dakar's emissions and air quality has been collected while trying to
quantify extemalities associated with the transport system. (8) These estimates should be treated with
caution. Health benefit calculations are usually based on the changes in the dose-effects of pollution in a
city/area, but the average level of pollution in Dakar is not precisely known at present. The linkages
between emissions' reduction and health benefits are even harder to quantify and prove. The health
benefit calculation in the analysis has used available statistics on the main polluting substances in Dakar,
on the one hand (CO, C02, N02-NOn, 03, S02, and more), and statistical information on respiratory
diseases on the other. Dakar had a yearly average of 25,150 respiratory related sicknesses (excluding
tuberculosis), which represents 5.4 percent of the area's total sicknesses. It is estimated that Dakar's
public transport system contributes about a third of the total emissions in the city. (9). High-risk groups
include all people in congested areas such as bus and taxi stations, markets, schools, and workplaces near
heavily traveled roadways, all of which are abundant in Dakar. As air pollution can be an important and a
direct cause of respiratory diseases, the calculation in the analysis takes into account a base case of a 5
percent reduction in a third of the total prevalence of respiratory sicknesses (analogous to its contribution)
as a consequence of improved technical control, traffic flow, and improved regulation of the city's car
fleet. A 5 percent reduction in a third of Dakar's respiratory diseases has a NPV of US$0.00624 million
@ a 12 percent discount rate.
Leaded gasoline. The Project's policy measures will help to phase out the use of leaded gasoline which
poses a great health hazard. (10) Quantifying the positive effects of introducing unleaded fuel is difficult
since leaded gasoline is not the sole factor in increased lead blood levels. However, it has been
established that these levels can be as much as 20 times higher in congested cities where leaded gasoline is
used. Citizens in Bangkok, Manila, and Damascus have lead blood levels 10-18 times higher than people
in an average US city. The benefits expected from the phase out of leaded gasoline in Dakar are not
quantified in the cost-benefit analysis, but they are mentioned qualitatively.
-43 -



Table 4.3: Costs and benefits of the main assumptions (millions of US$ in 1999 prices)
Total  2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
Costs
Investment Costs
Road Rehabilitation                 11.02   2.76   2.76   2.76   2.76
Reconstruction of Cymos Junction    13.07   3.27   3.27   3.27   3.27
Sidewalks Construction               1.55   0.39   0.39   0.39   0.39
Security, Fluidity & Non Motorized   2.14   0.54   0.54   0.54   0.54
Bus and interurban stations         11.82   2.95   2.95   2.95   2.95
Other                                0.69   0.17   0.17   0.17   0.17
Studies & Supervision                4.03.  1.01   1.01   1.01   1.01
Maintenance Costs
Maintenancecostswithproject         18.84   0.00   0.76   1.53   2.29   3.13   3.13   3.13
Maintenance costs without project   30.31   0.00   1.22   2.44   3.66   5.04   5.04   5.04
Incremental Maintenance costs      -11.46   0.00  -0.46  -0.92  -1.37  -1.91  -1.91  -1.91
Incremental costs                   32.86  11.08  10.62  10.16   9.71  -1.91  -1.91  -1.91
Benefits
A        From Reduced Accidents*
Reduction in Deaths                $2.12    0.19   0.20   0.21   0.21   0.22   0.23   0.24
Reduction in Injured               $2.79    0.25   0.26   0.27   0.28   0.29   0.30   0.32
Reduction in Car Damages from Accidt  $2.68    0.24   0.25   0.26   0.27   0.28   0.29   0.30
Total from Accidents                 $7.58    0.68   0.71   0.74   0.76   0.80   0.83   0.86
B        From Reduced Congestion**
Savings from Hours Lost           $39.68    3.56   3.70   3.85   4.00   4.16   4.33   4.50
Savings from Lower Operating Costs   $21.65   0.23   0.72   1.49   2.33   2.69   2.80   2.91
C        Reduced Air Pollution***              $0.09    0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01
Total Benefits                      $76.58  5.1597   5.84   6.82   7.87   8.46   8.80   9.15
Net Benefits                        $54.39   -5.92  -4.78  -3.34  -1.83  10.37  10.70  11.06
IRR                           37%
NPV of Net benefits @12%    $54.39
* Estimates a 10% reduction in deaths & injured, and 20% reduction in car damages
** Estimates a 5% reduction in congestion using 50% of the hourly wage rate and a 4% GDP growth rate
*** Estimates a 5% reduction in respiratory diseases
**** for full calculation see annexes
-44 -



The table below presents the sensitivity of the Projecfts IRR and NPV to changes in its main parameters.
Table 4,4: Changes in the cost and benefits of the main assumptions
Regular (No Changes)       0%          37%            $54.39
Investment Costs           10%         33%            $52.17
-10%        43%            $56.61
Congestion Benefits        10%         41%            $60.53
-10%         33%           $48.26
Accidents Reduction        10%         38%            $55.91
-10%         36%           $52.88
11.   In order to forecast the scenarios presented in the above economic analysis, a simulation that
includes a range of possible scenarios was performed. To construct such a simulation, a forecasting and
risk analysis software (Crystal Ball) was used that performs a Monte Carlo risk analysis, in which a set
of possible values for each uncertain parameter is defined. Such a simulation recalculates the main
assumptions used in constructing the cost-benefit analysis (two sets of assumption parameters have been
used in this case -- the total costs and total benefits of the Project), while the forecasted parameter is the
IRR on the investments. The simulation displays the results in a forecasting chart with the entire range of
possible outcomes, and the likelihood of achieving each of them. Table 4.5 below summarizes the
frequency and probability with which the IRR will occur.
Table 4.5: Frequency chart of the Project's IRR (percent)
Forecast: EIO
10,000 Trials       Frequency Chart          55 Outliers
.025-              -                       -252
=0.013,e 126 u
0
-0.25    0.50     1.25     2.00      2.75
Cars Rapides' Leasing Scheme Economic Analysis
12. Dakar's fleet of 3,500 private minibuses is a source of livelihood to more than 35,000 people, with
annual revenues of around US$121 million. They are the most popular transport mode in the city, and
have been operating without any public assistance, unlike most other forms of public transport in
Senegal. While it did not receive extemal assistance, the fleet has been expanding constantly, but while
the Cars Rapides are the most popular mode of transport, they are considered to be dangerous for travel
around Dakar. They are currently banned from entering the city center and operate on routes which are
-45 -



not covered by other public transport operators. They provide about 1.85 million rides each day.
13. The primary objective of the leasing scheme is to initiate the renewal of the local public transport
system, currently unable to afford the high local credit market interest rates. Before getting into the
various technicalities of the scheme, justifying the economic rationale of this intervention is necessary.
The main raison d'etre of renewing a private minibus fleet, at a subsidized interest rate of 8 percent, has
been debated by many observers. In recent years, the public bus company (SOTRAC) has been provided
with external assistance in the form of loans and TA which enabled it to survive and continue operating.
However, the company has steadily been losing market share (currently estimated at 1-2 percent) in the
Dakar region. Attempts to privatize SOTRAC, although pursued and approved by the Government, have
not yet been successful. The Project's approach of supporting private operators is based on the notion
that by correcting the risk perception of this group by clustering the operators into a cooperative (G.I.E.)
and initiating a mechanism to facilitate their access to the credit market, that the externalities they
produce will be reduced substantially. By establishing the G.I.Es and facilitating the financing and
formalization of their practices (such as insurance, technical inspections, and training of drivers) the local
financial market's risk perception will improve and it will more likely offer increased credit to this
sub-sector.
14. Risk mitigation. The private operators would have to deposit with the financial manager of the
scheme a down payment equal to 25 percent of the cost of the vehicle, in addition to a sum equal to three
monthly lease payments. The rest of the vehicle cost will be financed through the credit facility over a
period of six years, including a grace period of one year. The risk-mitigating measures include the social
pressure imposed on the leaseholders by: (i) the operators within the G.I.E. who are guaranteeing the
other group members' loans, and (ii) the other Cars Rapides' operators who have not yet joined the
scheme in its pilot phase. The guaranteeing of payment for defaults, with collateral of the cooperative
members in addition to the personal guarantees requested, would reduce the risk of default substantially
and would help bring about the long overdue renewal of the public transport fleet. An exit strategy,
which serves as an additional precaution, in case of a default on a certain percentage of the lease
payments, has to be envisioned as a part of the scheme.
15. The cost-benefit calculation of the component corresponds to the financial transactions of the leasing
facility. The analysis is conservative and similar to a financial calculation as it is focuses on the
monetary value of the costs and benefits, and omits a quantitative calculation of the externalities
involved. The high social costs associated with this sub-sector, such as high accident rates and the large
contribution to air pollution, are not quantified but mentioned qualitatively. The overall benefits of
replacing the Cars Rapides' fleet should be seen in a broader context than the incremental value of rides
generated by the new cars. These benefits relate to the establishment of a local credit financing
mechanism for the most popular means of public transport that serves the poorest segment of the
population (about 1 million people daily) and is vital for the development of Dakar's urban economy.
16. Each car approved for the leasing scheme will replace an older car, estimated to be about 20-30
years old. This will ensure that the scheme's objective of reducing the amount of old cars circulating
around the city is achieved. The operators of the old cars, that will be scrapped and destroyed, will be
compensated for the loss of a productive asset.
-46 -



Table 4.6: Example of a Single Car Finaning Path
Total Car's Cost              12,000,000   18,462
Personal Down Payment          3,000,000    4,615
Amount Financed by the Credit   9,000,000   13,846
Interest Rate                       8%        8%
Residual Value                  600,000      923
Number of Payments                   60        60
Monthly Payment                  227,451     350
VAT                                 20%      20%
Total Monthly Payment           272,941      420
17. The economic analysis makes sure that the amount loaned to the operators is compatible with the
Cars Rapides' generated cash flow.  A  car's average monthly operation scenario was carefully
constructed and is presented in the table below. It aims to verify the possibility of an owner to pay for
his lease payments with the current tariffs and operating costs, and it calculates the equilibrium price at
which the car owner will break even. The scenario is by no means the only one as there are various types
of cars (SG2/Renaults and Mercedes) and different lines operating around the Dakar region. The table
below assumes the owner will lease a car at a total cost of FCFA 12 million and will thus be required to
reimburse FCFA 227,451 per month. It also shows that to reimburse this amount and given a total
monthly expense of FCFA 596,000, the tariff charged per ride would need to be raised to at least FCFA
132 (assuming 25 working days per month and 250 passengers per day). It is conceivable that various
type of services (and thus prices) will be offered through the renewal of the fleet. From the studies
conducted and meetings held with the Project team, there would seem to be room for a differentiation of
services, some of which would be geared to the higher-end clients, by the cars covering the whole
distance between Dakar and the satellite towns (unlike today when the distance is broken into a few
segments). (11) The scenario presented below (Table 4.7) allows a maximum affordable car cost, given
the average tariffs. Similar scenarios were constructed for different types of cars and various tariff
levels.
Table 4.7: A Car Rapide average monthly operation scenario
With a Car Cost of 12,000,000 FCFA
Cost per Ride @      I0OFCFA I50FCFA   175FCFA  200FCFA
Expenses out of which:
Salaries              188,000
Petrol                258,000
Insurance              60,000
Maintenance and Misc.  80,000
Licenses               10,000
Total Expenses        596,000
Gross Revenues        625,000    937,500  1,093,750 1,250,000
Total Costs           596,000    596,000   596,000  596,000
Lease Payment         227.451    227,451   227,451  227,451
18. The Project proposes to finance, in the initial pilot phase, a combination of mostly used cars and a
small number of new cars. This precaution is taken, in addition of the phasing of the whole component
into three phases, to make sure that the assumptions used in the projections correspond to the actual
situation. When working with an informal sector (such as the one described below) it is of primary
-47 -



importance that the data given, studied, and used be confirmed. When the operators start reimbursing the
credit facility, the Project will be able to refine the cost composition of the vehicles financed, in order to
maximize and adapt the credit facility to the sector's needs.
19. As the figures used in the calculation are based on various assumptions it would be useful to have a
sensitivity estimation for the capacity to make lease payments, assuming an increase in the Cars Rapides'
total operating expenses. The table below presents the various probable scenarios with different type of
cars financed by the facility.
Table 4.8: Tariff Scenarios with different costs of Cars Rapides
a _ stotC.       C)04gk                    12 2
8,000,000                 0          122
8,00,000o               +10          131
8,000,000              +20           141
10,000,000                 0          127
10,000,000              +10           136
10,000,000              +20           146
12,000,000                 0          132
12,000,000              +10           141
12,000,000              +20           151
14,000,000                 0          137
14,000,000              +10           146
14,000,000              +20           156
Pedestrian and Traffic Safety along the suburban railway line Economic Analysis
20. During the first APL this Project component will: (i) construct a third track between Hann and
Fass-Mbao (US$3.53 million); (ii) rehabilitate the signaling system along Dakar-Rufisque route (US$0.3
million); (iii) construct a fence along the railway track (24 km) and establish 15 pedestrian overpasses
(US$7.38 million); (iv) construct 4 road overpasses (US$3.23 million); (v) rehabilitate the Dakar and
Rufisque central stations (US$2.3 million); and (vi) transfer the freight terminal to Bel Air (US$0.77
million). The second APL envisions the construction of suburban stations (buildings and platforms) and
the establishment of advanced signaling systems and rolling stock maintenance facilities.
21. The main objective of this component is to prepare the suburban railway line for concessioning,
increase the number of passengers, and improve operational efficiency. Most of the activities proposed
under the first phase of the Project (excluding the construction of a third track between Hann, Thiaroye,
and Fass-Mbao) are not contingent or related to the successful concessioning of the suburban line, and
can not all be justified on economic grounds. Some of them are related to the number of passengers who
will be using the railway in the future. The justification for the investments related to the construction of
a fence along the railway track, the establishment of 15 pedestrian overpasses, and the construction of 4
road overpasses at a total cost of US$10.6 million can be made on the basis of lives saved (safety
reasons) and a reduction in pedestrian-related interruptions along the railway. If the economic viability
of these investments were calculated, solely on the basis of lives saved (based on foregone income), about
1500 lives would need to be saved to justify the investment costs. Even though this calculation is absurd
and misleading, it gives an indication of the relatively high cost of implementing these safety measures.
-48 -



An additional activity included in the component is the renovation of Dakar's central station. This
activity cannot be justified on economic grounds but rather on the basis of cultural heritage preservation.
22. To perforn a full-scale quantitative economic analysis of the component, the cost of operating the
railway line to be concessioned needs to be established. In addition, the necessary investments would
need to be compared to the alternative investments for expanding the roads, all of which is difficult to
estimate at this stage. There is little reason to construct a cost-benefit calculation without the necessary
data. At present the railways are operating at a staggering deficit. The preliminary estimate of the
average variable cost per passenger (without depreciation, renewal, and maintenance costs) is around
FCFA 300. In order to arrive at the total cost of operating the railway, the average fixed cost (which
includes the long-term costs of operating the railway infrastructure) needs to be added to the variable
costs. This information is not yet known. Currently, the average tariff per passenger in Dakar is around
FCFA 100 and does not cover even half of the variable operating costs.
23. As a part of the concessioning of the railway, a feasibility study is to be launched shortly and
completed by May 2001. It will examine the feasibility of concessioning the suburban railway line,
verify the regulatory and legislative changes needed, calculate the cost of operating the line, and assess
the willingness and ability of the population to pay for improved services. The general methodology
sought after by the GOS is to provide an upfront subsidy in the form of investment in the infrastructure,
while making sure that the operating costs are covered by the tariff charges.
24. To attain the Government's goal in the sector, significant changes need to take place. These changes
include: (i) a substantial increase in the efficiency of the railway; (ii) a large increase in tariffs; and (iii)
a willingness and ability to pay for better service offered. Before launching into detailed preparation for
concessioning the suburban railway, it would be prudent to verify that under the current conditions
(Government approval of tariff increases in addition to expected efficiency gains) a concessionaire would
be able to earn a profit while operating the railway. Otherwise there is a high probability that even as a
concession is prepared, a concessionaire will not be found. The economic analysis suggests that before
starting an extensive and expensive feasibility study, it might be useful to make preliminary estimations
of whether substantial increases in the railway tariffs are feasible in the local context, and would be
accepted by the Government as well as the public. Following the rationale above, only after the demand
for a higher tariff is established, and the cost of operating the railway under a concession agreement put
in place, will it be possible to make an economic evaluation to determnine whether the path proposed is
justified.
Footnotes:
1) Systra, "Etude sur la restructuration des transports en commun, la capacite a payer et l 'indentif cation du
reseau a conceder", August 1998.
2) Tractebel, "Etude sur I 'analyse des couts des dysfonctionement des trasnports en commun dans 1'
aglommeration de Dakar", October 1998. The study is used as a reference point, while the assumptions used in the
cost benefit analysis performed are separately explained in the calculations.
3) The data used in the calculation are based on the official statistics of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport.
"Statistiques sur les accidents corporels de 1995-1997", November, 1998.
4) Thomas and Jacobs, "Predicting changes in accident rates in developing countries following modifications in
-49 -



road design", July 1998.
5) Transport Research Laboratory and Overseas Development Administration, "Costing road accidents in
developing countries", July 1998.
6 ) Kenneth Gwilliam, "Value of time in economic evaluation of transport projects: lessons from recent research",
July 1998.
7) Republique du Senegal, "Couts et Conditions D'Exploitation des vehicules routiers au Senegarl, May 1995.
8) Estimations of emissions' quantities due to traffic in Dakar have been developed by Tractebel Environment
with the EMM2 model, used frequently by the European Commission.
9) Tractebel, "Etude sur la qualite d'air en milieu urbain de Dakar", December 1998.
10) Magda Lovel, "Eliminating the silent threat - World Bank support for the global phaseout of lead from
gasoline", May 1999.
11) Access Finance Gestion, "Analyse Juridique et Financiere du Mecanisme de Leasing", December 1999.
- 50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SENEGAL: URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
| Year 1| Year 2        Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  |Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           11.1      27.5       37.2       27.2                   0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          11.1      27.5       37.2       27.2        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              11.1      27.5       37.2       27.2        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   7.0       19.5       25.6       17.9       0.0       0.0        0.0
Govemment                  0.6        0.9        0.9        0.6       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              3.3        5.9        8.5        6.2                 0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.2        1.2        2.2        2.5       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     11.1      27.5       37.2       27.2        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
N.A.
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SENEGAL: URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was completed in July 1994. For the
program, findings of the CPAR remain valid. In general, Senegal's procurement laws and regulations do
not conflict with IDA Guidelines. No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the
Credit documents, since Senegal's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over
any contrary provisions in local regulations. IDA financed Works and Goods will be procured in
accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January,
August 1996 and January 1999). IDA's standard bidding documents will be used for all procurement under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally, would
be carried out in accordance with Senegal's procurement laws and regulations, and acceptable to IDA,
provided that (i) a bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder
qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iii) no preference margin is granted to domestic
manufacturers; (iv) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (v) award will be made to the lowest
evaluated bidder; and (vi) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents are
submitted to IDA and found acceptable.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works: Contracts for works above US$500,000 including road and railway rehabilitation,
and civil works for road safety will be procured through ICB. For contracts estimated to cost less than
US$500,000 equivalent, national competitive bidding may be used, provided that the aggregate amount of
such procurement does not exceed US$ 2,500,000. Small contracts, mostly for road safety, estimated to
cost less than $50,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 100,000 would be procured under
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified
domestic contractors invited to bid by way of discounts or increase either on the total price or on the unit
prices. The invitation shall include reference unit prices established by an engineer, a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement
described in a Manual of Procedures, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award would be made
to the contractor with the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided he demonstrates he has
the experience and resources to successfully execute the contract. Civil works contracts will be managed
by a contract management entity acceptable to IDA and selected in accordance with the procedures for the
hiring of consultants.
Goods: IDA financed goods will be procured through ICB in agreement with the Bank's
Guidelines mentioned above. Procurement arrangements for goods, mostly for office supplies and the
purchase of public transport vehicles, below US$100,000 would be subject to NCB procedures acceptable
to IDA up to an aggregate amount of US$1.77 million. In accordance with Bank guidelines, a preferential
margin of 15 percent (or the applicable customs duty, which ever is less), over c.i.f. prices of competing
goods for all ICB procurement would be given to domestically manufactured goods. Contracts for small
equipment, locally available from the shelf at economical prices and costing less than US$50,000 each,
would be subject to national shopping, provided it does not exceed an aggregate amount of US$200,000 by
obtaining at least three quotations from reliable suppliers.
- 52 -



Commercial Practices: Under the component for developing leasing mechanisms, the IDA credit
will provide funds to an intermediary institution, to enable private sector bus operators to upgrade their
fleet by purchasing about 300 new vehicles and about 600 second-hand ones. The intermediary institution
will be responsible for undertaking procurement, on the behalf of beneficiaries, in accordance with
commercial practices and acceptable to the Bank, provided (a) ICB is used for the purchase of large
quantities of buses to be grouped into lots exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) at least three
quotations are obtained from reliable suppliers of the vehicles. The latter will apply up to US$ 1 million.
Prequalification of garages will take place for repairs of vehicles and taxis, before seeking quotations.
Technical audits will be carried out by an independent expert recruited for the project to ensure compliance
with toxic emission standards.
Consultants and other services financed by IDA would be for (i) contract management services,
studies and supervision of works; (ii) technical and financial audits; (iii) technical studies (mostly traffic
studies); and (iv) training. Consultants would be hired in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Most consultants selection (design, technical audits, training and technical studies) will be addressed
through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality-and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), by evaluating the quality of the proposal before combining quality and cost
evaluation by weighing and adding the quality and cost scores. For works supervision and financial audits,
the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will be the most appropriate method. Services for small studies which can
be delivered by Individual Consultants will be selected through comparison of at least three CVs and
qualifications. Short-lists for contracts under US$100,000 may be comprised of national consultants if a
sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign
firms express interest, they will not be excluded.
- 53 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            32.00           2.50           0.10          23.30           57.90
(28.80)         (2.25)         (0.09)         (0.00)        (31.14)
2. Goods                             1.00           1.77           0.20           0.00           2.97
(0.90)         (1.59)         (0.18)         (0.00)         (2.67)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00           15.50          0.30           15.80
Training                            (0.00)         (0.00)         (15.50)        (0.00)         (15.50)
4. Operating Costs                   0.00           0.00           0.93           0.00           0.93
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.79)         (0.00)         (0.79)
6. PPF Refinancing                   0.40           0.00           0.15           0.00           0.55
(0.40)         (0.00)         (0.15)         (0.00)         (0.55)
6. Goods/leasing scheme             23.86           0.00           1.00           0.00           24.86
(17.89)         (0.00)         (0.75)         (0.00)        (18.64)
Total                            57.26           4.27           17.88         23.60          103.01
(47.99)         (3.84)        (17.46)         (0.00)        (69.29)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 54 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA financed contracts for works above the US$500,000 threshold equivalent and for goods above
the US$100,000 threshold equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process
would cover about 80 percent of the total value of the amount contracted for goods, and 60 percent of the
amount contracted for civil works (see Table B). Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the
threshold level will apply to about one in three contracts and will be carried out by Bank staff using
technical audits and other consultants, as deemed necessary.
The selection process for hiring consultants proposed by the Borrower will also be subject to Bank
prior review. Prior review will include the review of budgets, Terms of Reference (TORs), short-lists,
selection procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract awards, and negotiated contracts.
Prior review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firmns and individuals estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior
review will not apply to the TORs of such contracts, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical
nature as determined by IDA, regardless of their value, or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value above the above-mentioned prior review thresholds. For consultant contracts estimated above
US$100,000, opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection
to the technical evaluation. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be
maintained by the borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and IDA supervision missions. For training
abroad and in-country, the program, containing names of candidates, costs estimates, content of courses,
periods of training and selection of training institutions, will be annually reviewed by IDA.
- 55 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                      C > 500,000                  1CB                     18.50
C < 500,000                 NCB                   post review
C < 50,000              3 Quotations              post review
2. Goods                      C > 100,000                 ICB                        1.4
C < 100,000                 NCB                   post review
<50,000             National Shopping            post review
3. Services
a. Firms                      C > 100,000              QCBS/LCS                     8.9
C < 100,000              QCBSILCS                 post review
b. Individuals                C > 100,000               Individual               post review
All                 Single Source
4. Miscellaneous
Commercial Practices
for the leasing entity
a. Purchase of vehicles     C > or= 100,000                ICB                     12.84
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$41.64
(or 60% of total
procurement for the
project)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements: National bidding procedures for
public procurement in Senegal need to be improved. A draft procurement code was issued in 1997, but still
needs to be approved.  Under the previous IDA-financed operations, the sector gained substantial
experience of Bank's procedures. An assessment of CETUD's current capacity has been carried out during
appraisal, and strengthening needs has received special attention. Basically, CETUD will be reinforced
through (i) the transfer of personnel who acquired experience by working in the previous project
coordination unit; and (ii) the recruitment of qualified staff and ad hoc short-term consultant services, as
required. CETUD will also benefit from the permanent support of a Contract Management Agency for
management of civil works contracts, as well as support from annual technical audits.
- 56 -



A draft Manual of Procedures, including a procurement section, has been submitted and agreed upon
during appraisal. Necessary revisions have been discussed and agreed upon.
During negotiations, the Government has agreed with IDA on (a) a draft procurement plan; (b) an updated
version of the Manual of Procedures; (c) standard bidding documents to be used under NCB procedures
for civil works and goods; and (d) a detailed recruitment and training plan. The Government also gave
assurance that it will (a) use the Manual of Procedures; (b) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid
Evaluation reports; (c) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (d) update the
procurement plan, indicating compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement,
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances
for contingencies, as well as revised timing of estimated procurement actions. The Government also gave
assurance at negotiations that it will take necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases do not
exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement Phases Maximum number of weeks:
- Preparation of bidding documents:                   4 (6 for large contracts)
- Preparation of bids by bidders:                      4 (6-10 for ICB)
- Bid evaluation:                                     2 (4 for large contracts)
- Signature of contracts:                             2
-Payments:                                            3
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 57 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
ExedtreCtgr                     Amount i U$nillion:          FinnigPretg
Civil Works                                                              90%
a) CETUD                                   15.00
b) SNCS                                    7.38
c) SNCS (safety)                           8.46
Goods/Equipment                                                          90%
a) CETUD                                    1.00
b) SNCS                                    0.67
c) Public Transport vehicles               16.05                         75%
Consultants' Services/Training                                          100%
a) CETUD                                   9.94
b) SNCS                                    0.80
c) LEASING                                 0.40
Operating costs                            0.61                          85%
Refunding of PPF advance                   0.55                          100
Unallocated                                9.20
Total Project Costs                        70.06
Total                                      70.06
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for expenditures for: (i) works
under contracts costing less than US$500,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
Special account:
In order to ensure that funds needed for project implementation are available in a timely manner, a Special
Account, denominated in CFAF, will be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized
ceiling of the special account will be CFAF 2,800,000,000. The initial amount deposited in the Special
Account will be CFAF 1,400,000,000. The Special Account will be replenished each month, or as soon as
the total disbursed from the account amount to one third of the initial deposit. The project will be able to
request the second deposit (to reach the authorized ceiling) once a total of SDR 8,000,000 has been
disbursed or committed
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SENEGAL: URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Proect Schedule                                     Planned           I           Acua
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        13                             13
First Bank mission (identification)               03/08/99                      03/08/99
Appraisal mission departure                       01/24/2000                    01/31/2000
Negotiations                                      04/17/2000                    04/17/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     09/15/2000
Prepared by:
Office of the Prime Minister, Ministry of Equipment and Land Transport: Department of Land Transport and
Departnent of Civil Works
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan, Agence de Developpement Municipal (ADM)
Municipalities of Dakar, Pikine, Rufisque, Guediawaye, Bargny, Thies, and Kaolack
Preparation assistance:
Conseil Executifdes Transports Urbains de Dakar (CETUD)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Patrick Bultynck, AFTU2            Task Team Leader, Urban Transport Specialist
Claude Sorel, AFTPS                Private Sector Development Specialist
Matar Fall, AFMSN                  Senior Operations Officer
Paul Kriss, AFTIE                  Economist
Karim-Jacques Budin, TWUTD         Principal Railways Specialist
Fanny Barrett, AFTU2               Program Assistant
Kishor Uprety, LEGAF               Senior Counsel
Wolfgang Chadab, LOAAF             Disbursement Officer
Bernard Abeille, AFTS2             Principal Procurement Specialist
Yves Prevost, AFTE 1               Senior Environmental Specialist
Nina Chee, AFTEI                   Environmental Specialist
Chantal Reliquet, WBIEN            Urban Specialist
Ahmadou M. Ndiaye, AFMSN           Financial Management Specialist
Connie Kok Shun, AFTU2             Senior Task Team Assistant
Majorie Kingston, AFTU2            Task Team Assistant
Quality Team
Pedro Geraldes, AFTT2              Principal Transport Economist
Jean-Charles Crochet, ECSIN        Senior Urban Transport Specialist
Denise Vaudaine, AFTU2             Senior Municipal Specialist
Pushpa N. Schwartz, Consultant     Editor
- 59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SENEGAL: URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Manual
B. Cost of the Project and Program
Complete COSTAB tables
C. Studies and reports
* Etude sur la restructuration globale des transports en commun, la capacite de payer et V'
identification du reseau a conceder. Rapport definitif. Aout 1998
*  Etude sur l'analyse des couits de dysfonctionnements des transports en commun dans 1'
agglomeration de Dakar. Rapportfinal. Octobre 1998
*  Etude sur la qualite de l'air en milieu urbain de Dakar. Rapport final. D&embre 1998
* Initiative sur la Qualite de l 'air dans les villes d 'Afrique subsaharienne : seminaire de Dakar des
17 et 18 decembre 1998: Transports urbains et qualite de 1 'air a Dakar. Compte rendu. SSATP
Working Paper No. 38. Fevrier 1999
.  Etude sur l 'assistance a la montee en charge du Fonds de Developpement des Transports
Urbains. Rapport provisoire. Juillet 1999
*  Etude d 'implantation des e'quipements des points d 'arrets sur les axes de transport en commun.
Rapport provisoire. Septembre 1999
* Formation des intervenants dans le processus de reforme des transports urbains. Rapport final.
Septembre 1999
*   Campagne de sensibilisation sur la securite routiere. Rapport semestriel de la phase I.
Septembre 1999
* Etude d 'evaluation d 'investissements routiers de base pour I 'amelioration de la mobilite urbaine
ai Dakar. Septembre 1999
*   Etudes sur la qualite de I 'air en milieu urbain: cas de Dakar et Ouagadougou. Rapportsfinaux.
SSATP Working Paper No.41. Septembre 1999
* Etude portant sur l 'informatisation et la decentralisation dujfichier de l 'offre de transport.
Rapportprovisoire. Octobre 1999
*  Elaboration de cahier de charges definissant les normes techniques des vehicules de transports
urbains. Rapport final octobre 1999
* Identification des mesures permettant I 'analyse des performances. Phase II: situation a
mi-parcours. Rapport provisoire. Octobre 1999
*   Etude sur la capacitefinanciere et comptable du CETUD. Decembre 1999
* Analyse juridique etfinanciere du mecanisme de leasing. Decembre 1999
* Audit organisationnel du CETUD. Decembre 1999
*  Restructuration des gares routieres urbaines et interurbaines, y compris le transfert desfonctions
interurbaines des gares de *< Pompiers >>et < Colobane >>; Rapport definitif D&cembre 1999
* Restructuration des gares urbaines de marchandises, y compris l 'amenagement d'une gare
routiere de gros porteurs
*   Etude sur la connaissance des sources de pollution et le niveau de contribution de chaque source
identifiee a Dakar, definition d 'un programme d 'actions. Rapport final. Janvier 2000
* Amenagements des stations de Cars Rapides et de taxis. Rapport final. Janvier 2000
- 60 -



*  Etude d'impact environnemental du projet d'amelioration de la mobilite' urbaine a Dakar.
Rapport provisoire. F'vrier 2000
D. Others
*  Mission de prjvaluation de l 'IDA menee du 9 au 18 mars 1999: aide-memoire de mission
*  Lettre d'agrement du schema de leasing pour le renouvellement des Cars Rapides signee a Dakar
le 14 novembre 1999 par les quatre associations professionnelles les plus representatives des
Cars Rapides (tansporteurs, chauffeurs, chauffeurs proprietaires)
*  Proces-verbal des discussions tenues a Washington du 18 au 23 novembre 1999 entre la
dclegation senegalaise conduite par S.E.M Landing Sane, Ministre de 1 'Equipement et des
Transports Terrestres et l 'IDA relatives a la preparation du projet d'amelioration de la mobilite
urbaine.
*  Lettre du Ministre de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan datee du 30 dccembre 1999 et relative
a la mise en concession a un operateurprive de la ligne urbaine et suburbaine du chemin defer
*  Mission d'evaluation de l'IDA men&e du 31 janvier au I I fevrier 2000: aide-memoire de la
mission
* Mission de post-evaluation de l'IDA. Mars 2000. Aide-memoire de mission
*  Proces-verbal des negociations techniques tenues entre l'IDA et une delegation de l'Etat du
Senegal a Bruxelles du 20 au 24 mars 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files
-61 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SENEGAL: URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                IBRD       IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P051610        1998 Senegal                      AG.EXPORT PROMOTION                       0.00       18.20        0.00        1.58      3.74       3.77
P002367        1999 Senegal                      AGR.SRCVES&PROD.ORGS                      0.00       12.50        0.00        4.05      4.68       2.78
P035615        1995 Senegal                      COMM NUTRITION                            0.00      100.00        0.00       56.51     65.32     60.53
P041567        1997 Senegal                      ENDEMIC DISEASES                          0.00       26.50        0.00       12.08     -0.93       0.00
P051357        1998 Senegal                      ENERGY SEC. ADJ.                          0.00       12.60        0.00        3.94     -2.41       0.00
P002373        1996 Senegal                      HIGHER EDUC I                             0.00       14.90        0.00       13.04      8.02       1.85
P002369        1998 Senegal                     INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.                       0.00       10.50        0.00        5.47      5.10       0.00
P057996        2000 Senegal                      NATINFRA.PROGRAM                          0.00        5.20        0.00        4.11      2.48       0.00
P035621        1996 Senegal                      PILOT FEMALE LITERAC                      0.00        6.60        0.00        3.03      2.61       0.00
P002376        1995 Senegal                      PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG                        0.00        800         0.00        6.55      2.56      -0.28
P046648        1997 Senegal                      REGIONAL POWER                            0.00      100.00        0.00       74.63     73.95       0.00
P046768        1997 Senegal                      SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.                      0.00       50.00        0.00       37.94     17.84       0.00
P002366        1999 Senegal                      TRANSPORT II                              0.00       75.00        0.00       60.13     22.55       0.00
P002365        1998 Senegal                      URB DEVT & DECEN PRO                      0.00       27.40        0.00       27.16     10.50       0.00
P044383        1997 Senegal                      URBANTRANSREFTA                           0.00       90.00        0.00       82.94     -1.72       0.00
P002346        1995 Senegal                      WATER SECTOR                              0.00       28.50        0.00       27.57      0.00       0.00
P067498        2000 Senegal                      Y2K NATIONAL ACTION PLAN                  0.00       50.00        0.00       49.32      0.00       0.00
SUPPORT PROJECT                           0.00      10.15         0 00       10.08      3.21      0.00
Total:        0.00     646.05        0.00      480 13    217.80      68.65
-62 -



SENEGAL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
February 29, 2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1980               BHS                            0.00     .46    0.00    0.00    0.00       .46    0.00    0.00
1994/96            SOGECA                         0.00     .28    0.00    0.00    0.00       .28    0.00    0.00
1996/97/98         AEF SERT                        .61     .43    0.00    0:00       .61     .43    0.00    0.00
1997               GTI DAKAR                     12.30    1.61    0.00    10.21    6.15    1.03      0.00    7.42
1998               SEF SENTA                       .27    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.27    0.00       0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        13.18    2.79    0.00    10.21    7.03    2.21     0.00    7.42
Note
AEF=Africa Enterprise Fund
BHS=Banque Habitat du S6n6gal (financial); SOGECA = Societ6 gen6rale de cr6dit automobiles
(financial)
SERT=Societ6 d'exploitation des ressources thonneres (fishery); SEF SENTA = Small Enterprise Fund
Sen6gal Tanerie (leather);
GTI-DAKAR= Power project; TOLSA-Thies = Mining operation in Thies; CDS = Ciment de Sahel
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1998              GTIDAKAR                          13.11       .22      0.00      0.00
1998              TOLSA-THIES                        3.00       .90      0.00      0.00
1998              CDS                               13.50      2.35      2.35      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        19.61      3.47      2.35      0.00
-63 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SENEGAL: URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
POVERTY and SOCALJ                                       Saharan         -
Senagal     0 Afrirlca  jnce   Development diamond'
1999                                               y 0x0      ft      f  0
Poulation. mid-year (millions)     :93                       628 f3 51                     Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, LJS$)                535       480       520
GNP (Atlas metfhod, US$ bif ions)                   5,0      304     1844T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Populat:on (%S 2.l                                            2.6       17 
Labor force Z% .                                              26        1~9     GNP                            Gross
per                           pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199 I3-:                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty  <f% of population below natnapot ineJ)
Urban population % of total popuaIon 000;:9$ id0:; :00  : X  if ;4S  ;   00339000t45  33  31
Lie xpectancy at birth (years)                       52        51       63:                     1
Infant mortay (per 1,000 live births):               ..        91       069
Child malnutrtion (% of children under 5)            22                 ,,               Access to safe water
Access to safe wate (f'popuation)                    51        47       74
Ilifteracy (% otpopulationag 15+ 4                   67       :42       32S
Gross pirmary enrollment (% ofso.ppula*to            66       77       108               Senegal
Male                                              i71        84      I13                 Low-income group
Female                                             57       69       103    - __    __    ___    _    _  _    _    __
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TRM TRENDS
1979    1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ bilions)                          2.A     4,6       417  : 5. 0 
Gross domestic investmentlGDP              11.4     11.9      19,6     21.3                    Trade
Exports Of goods and services/GDP          30.9   :26.7      33.3      32.4T
Gross domest savings/GDP                    2.      6,4      14.9      14A
Gross national savings/GOP                                   1 -2.2 0 2.  .3  14.2
Current account balancelGOP               -15.1     -97      -6.2      -7,0     Domestic
interest paymentslGOP                       1.8     3.2       1.9       1.7                                Investment
Total debtVGDP                            40.8    70.7       71.0      65.5     Savigs
Totat debt servicelexports                 15:.2    26.6      9.7       9.0
Present value of debtlGDP                    ..  :           43.1      42.2
Present valte of debtlexports               .-        -     120.8    120.3
Indebtedness
197949  1989-9    1998       1999  19903
(average annual growth)
GOP                                2.9:     30      5.7       5.1      4.8            -Senegal
GNP per capita                    -0.1      0.6     3.9       2A4       21                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      .0      2.4      5.2       6.0      6.1   _________                _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1999     Growth of investment and GDP (V.)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                23.7    19.4      17.4      17.8    15
Industry                                   15.0    18.8      24.1      25.3     1
Manufacturing                            10.4    13.3       15.8     16.7      5___
Services                                   61.4    61.9      58.5      56.9    .5
Private consumption                       80.3    78.0       76.3      75.4    -10
General government consumption             17.3    15.6      10.3      10.2             -     GD1       :  GDP
Imports of goods and services             40.0    32.1       38.0      39.3
197949  1989-99      1998     1999      Growth of exports and imports (%/)
(average annual growth)                                                        1
Agriculture                                 1.8     1.6      -1.7       6.1    1
Industry                                   4.2      4.3       8.8       7.7    10o.
Manufacturing                             4.6      2.6      7.6       4.8     5
Services                                    3.0     3.1       7.1       3.9     
Private consumption                         2.2     3.0       2.8       3.7     5      4
General govemment consumption               3.4    -1.7       3.2       4.7
Gross domestic investment                   4.1     3.5       7.8       9.4   .10
Imports of goods and services               1.7     0.7       8.0       6.6                 Exports   -,Imports
Gross national product                      2.8     3.4       6.7       5.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 64 -



Senegal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         40
Consumer prices                               9.7      0.4       1.1       2.0     s
Implicit GDP deflator                         9.7      0.9       2.2       1.9    20
Govemment finance                                                                  1o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                              18.4    17.8       17.3      17.1    -10      94   90   99   97   99   90
Current budget balance                         ..    -0.1        5.8       5.0                 GDP ceflator  -"CPt
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -2.9       -2.6      -4.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989        1998     1999       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          478      759        965     1,017     1,600
Groundnut                                    ..    150          54        56     1,400
Fish                                                  70        25        31     1,200
Manufactures                                 ..    167         265       281     1,000
Total imports (cif)                            .. 1,134        1,376     1,493      900
Food                                         ..      334       311       325      40
Fuel and energy                                       5        17        19       20
Capital goods17                                                21        24 
93  94  ss  90  97  99  90
Export price index (1995=100)                   .     104        104      113
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..     83         94       99                  3 Exports     * Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                          .      127       111      114    _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989        1998     1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                816    1,255      1,538    1,621       0,
Imports of goods and services               1,104    1,514     1,844     1,965
Resource balance                            -288    -260        -307      -344
Net income                                    -79    -205        -36       -39
Net current transfers                         4        1           3       31      -
Current account balance                      -415    -448       -289      -352     -8
Financing items (net)                        265      543        312      426    -1'
Changes in net reserves                      150      -95        -23       -74    -121i
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)         34       31        426      486
Conversion rate (DEC, locabMUS$)            212.7   319.0      590.0    591.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,122    3,269     3,324    3,275
IBRD                                        41       94          9        5                     F:6;S520
IDA                                         88      592      1,448     1,588
Total debt service                            135     359        163       158          E: 845
IBRD                                         6       16          8        5
IDA                                           1       6         18       15
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                 B: 1,588
Official grants                            148      293        241      204
Official creditors                         359      573        409      348
Private creditors                           47       -51       -27       -28          D: 55
Foreign direct investment                    6       -15         7      169
Portfolio equity                             0      -205       -36       -39                     C: 199
World Bank program
Commitments                                 32       22        233        0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               27       49        108      145      B - IDA    D - Other mulllateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                         3       11         16       19      C - IMF                     G -Short-term
Netflows                                    25       38         93      126   1                                    ,,, _
Interest payments                            4       13         10        1
Net transfers                               21       25         82      125
Development Economics                                                                                                5/3/00
-65 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Toward an Urban Mobility Charter
Performance indicators
Development Obiectives:
To increase the safety, effectiveness, and environmental quality of urban mobility in the Dakar
metropolitan area, with particular concern for the poorest communities. Both the sustainable development
of public transport and the safety of pedestrians will be priorities in determining capital investments.
The main results expected from project implementation are:
*   Sustainable improvements in traveling conditions for communities in the Dakar metropolitan area,
especially with respect to public transport;
*   An increase in this subsector's contribution to the growth and productivity of the urban economy;
   A substantial reduction in urban air pollution and in its adverse effects on economic growth;
*   An improved quality of life for the inhabitants of Dakar's metropolitan area, achieved by increasing the
efficiency and safety of the various modes of transportation.
Overall Framework for Performance Indicators:
In addition to preparing performance indicators, essential for measuring the progress made toward
achieving the Project's objectives, it is intended to establish, over the medium term, an urban mobility
charter that will link the main partners in urban transportation, including the users and the transportation
operators. This charter would recognize the economic and social importance of urban transportation, and
would specify the commitments entered into by each of the partner groups with respect to investments in
improved operations.
The Project's development objectives will be achieved through a combination of capital investment,
various activities, and institutional and regulatory measures that focus on the following specific objectives:
1.    Reduction of bottlenecks in the Dakar metropolitan area by:
(a)    Constructing and rehabilitating urban roads, with priority given to mass transit;
(b)    Constructing and developing intercity road terminals on the outskirts of Dakar, so as to
minimize/restrict the transportation of goods into the downtown area to the volume
required for commercial purposes;
(c)    Implementing traffic management measures, including giving priority to mass transit by
providing bus lanes and establishing right of way for public transportation at intersections;
(d)    Coordinating urban planning with a long-tern focus, such as transportation, housing, and
rational land use;
- 66 -



(e)    Establishing orders of priority for traffic corridors, in accordance with their functions;
(f)    Identifying the best ways of reducing the number of trips made, through a combination of
measures such as staggering of peak hours and the introduction of a non-stop working day
for the formal sector (e.g., government agencies and activities in the tertiary sector); and
(g)    Developing and upgrading suburban railway services to increase in their capacity and
market share in mass transit supply.
2.     Increase in the market shares of mass transit by:
(a)    Improving bus, minibus, and taxi service management;
(b)    Implementing a coordinated intermodal policy that will promote mass transit, exploit the
optimum capabilities of each mode of transportation, and the synergies among them;
(c)    Developing and upgrading the suburban railway system, making it the backbone of urban
public transportation in Dakar, so that eventually rail and road services can be coordinated
and the necessary infrastructure can be constructed;
(d)    Constructing transfer terminals and interchange stations to facilitate safe transfer of
passengers, both from one mode to another and within the same mode;
(e)    Improving access to certain districts of the city with which communications are currently
difficult;
(f)    Organizing feeder routes, following the trends in transportation demand in various
districts;
(g)    Introducing an integrated fare policy that would cover the various modes of mass transit;
and
(h)    Enforcing right of way, easements, and land reserves in order to protect land from squatter
settlements and allow for the effective planning of capital investments in urban
infrastructure.
3.     Relative reduction in the levels of urban traffic-generated pollution by:
(a)    Eliminating gradually the use of leaded gasoline and implementing tax policy that would
encourage the use of cleaner fuels;
(b)    Initiating a program to test vehicles for toxic emissions;
(c)    Replacing old vehicles used for mass transit (Cars Rapides), supplemented by a program
for renovating certain vehicles;
(d)    Introducing a strategy for managing air quality in urban areas;
(e)    Establishing a center for monitoring pollution indicators in urban areas;
(f)    Constructing and operating vehicle inspection centers and requiring that vehicles be
regularly checked to ensure that they conform with stricter regulations governing toxic
emissions;
-67 -



(g)    Revising regulations on imports of pre-owned vehicles to ensure compliance with stricter
rules governing technical standards for vehicles using public roads.
4.     Reductions in the number and severity of accidents by:
(a)    Improving traffic management measures (including the construction of lay-by areas and
stopping zones reserved for public transportation, and the installation of signs, traffic
signals, and pavement marking);
(b)    Conducting consciousness-raising campaigns among road users;
(c)    Protecting non-motorized modes of transportation by means of traffic divisions;
(d)    Constructing and upgrading sidewalks and other components of the road system to protect
pedestrians from motorized vehicles;
(e)    Installing speed bumps at critical places;
(f)    Constructing pedestrian bridges over streets with high traffic densities; and
(g)    Enforcing traffic laws and regulations strictly.
5.     Increases in the caact and efficiency of the urban street ystem by:
(a)    Designing appropriate urban streets and intersections, so as to eliminate black spots and
provide for safe and coordinated mass transit flows and safe pedestrian movement;
(b)    Improving access to certain districts of the city with which communications are currently
difficult;
(c)    Constructing fee-charging parking lots and increasing the number of park-and-ride lots
bordering the downtown area; and
(d)    Improving coordination among the main agencies concerned with street construction and
maintenance and related services (e.g., sanitation).
6.     Increased user participation in the preparation and implementation of programs to improve
traveling conditions by:
(a)    Supporting the establishment of committees representing road users;
(b)    Consulting with members of civil society on urban mobility issues;
(c)    Implementing information, consciousness-raising, training programs for elected officials
and road users on issues related to transportation and environmental management.
- 68 -



7.    Increases in the financial capacitV of the sector by:
(a)    Strengthening the Urban Transportation Development Fund through measures including
improvement in its rate of recovery and financial and management autonomy, as well as its
system of supervision;
(b)    Studying and implementing (depending on financial viability) a toll system on certain
corridors.
8.     Strengthening management expertise in the sector by:
(a)    An enhanced role for the private sector in the provision of mass transit services, the
construction and management of urban infrastructure (e.g., bus stations, vehicle inspection
centers, and parking facilities), concessioning of the operation of the Petit Train Bleu to a
private operator, and participation by small-scale local contractors in civil engineering
projects;
(b)    A support program to increase the awareness of the main actors in the sector, including
operators of transportation systems, mechanics, and drivers, about environmental issues
and as these relate to operations, planning, and management;
(c)    A support program for agencies concemed with aspects of urban mobility and for
operations of the CETUD;
(d)    An performance evaluation (with methods and tools) to monitor regularly the quality of
services provided and CETUD's operations.
Proiect Components:
The Project for improving mobility in the Dakar metropolitan area consists of the following five
components:
(1)    Construction and rehabilitation of urban road infrastructure, with road safety and traffic
management measures;
(2)    Measures to ensure the safety of pedestrians and other traffic along the suburban railway
line;
3)     Support for the establishment of a leasing mechanism for operators of mass transit
services;
(4)    Adoption of an Urban Air Management Strategy; and
(5)    Strengthening expertise in the sector and providing institutional support to CETUD.
-69 -



Performance Indicators: Objectives and Criteria
Objective                            Criteria                 Indicators 36      Indicators 48
months after   months after credit
credit effectiveness   effectiveness
1. Improve the quality of trips in the
Dakar metropolitan area by promoting
the use of public transport and
assuring the safe movements of
pedestrians through:
I.A. Reductions in traffic congestion and Increase in the commercial speed (in  3%                10%
duration of trips made by public    percentage terms) of public transport
transport                           during peak hours on some strategic
urban roads (*)
1. B. Saving in time taken on trips on    Reduction in the number of hours lost in  3%             5%
some strategic urban roads          traffic during working days on strategic
roads (in percentage terms)
1. C. Increase in the market share of    Increase in the number of passengers   5%                10%
public transport                    using public transport services during
working days compared with the total
number of trips (in percentage terms)
I.D. Decrease in the level of pollution   Decrease in the quantity (tons) of Co,  0.5%             1%
generated by motorized transport    Nox, and HC emissions
1. E. Reduction in the number and   Reduction in the number of injuries         2%                 2%
gravity of road accidents           Reduction of the number of fatalities       5%                10%
2. Improve the financial capacity and  Increase in the financial resources of the  60%            75%
contribution of the urban transport   Urban Transport Development Fund
sector                              (UTDF) (**)
3. Decrease in the direct and indirect  Reduction, in relative terms, in the costs  5%             10%
costs of externalities generated by  of dysfunction (GDP) generated by
motorized transport in the Dakar    motorized transport
metropolitan area
(*) The strategic urban roads are:
:       Avenue Cheikh Bamba between Avenue Bourguiba and Place de l'Obelisque
*       Road between Rufisque and cross-road CAPA and cross-road Pikine;
*       Avenue Blaise Diagne between Boulevard Gueule Tapee and Avenue Malick Sy;
*       Route Front de terre between CAPA and the crossroad
(**) Compared with the reference point of FCFA 400 million in 2000, the objective is to reach FCFA 1,200 at the
end of the Program in seven years.
- 70 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Financial Management Capacity Assessments
1.    Institutional arrangements and financial management: CETUD will act as the implementing
agency. The civil works component will be carried out by AGETIP or another qualified agency, under an
agreement with CETUD. The SNCS will act as the implementing agency for Component 2 for ensuring the
safe movement of pedestrians and other traffic along the suburban railway line.
2.     CETUD will have overall responsibility for the program's financial management. One special
account will be opened for the whole program. It will be managed by CETUD which will make all
necessary disbursements for all the components. Because activities under Component 2 mainly consist of
large contracts, it is not deemed necessary to open a specific special account and have a specific financial
management system installed at SNCS for the accounting of activities implemented by it. Accounting of
such activities will be carried out within the single program financial management system installed at
CETUD and according to coordination mechanisms to be defined in the manual of procedures. It is noted,
however, that SNCS will be required to submit the report on the audit of its annual financial statements not
later than six months after the end of each year audited.
3.    Given these arrangements, the financial management capacity assessments cover mainly the
CETUD. However, besides CETLD, there are other financial management aspects, namely those related to
the leasing mechanism under Component 3, that need to be considered in this assessment because of their
importance to the success of the Project.
Financial Management Capacity Assessments
CETUD
4.    The program's overall financial management will be the responsibility of CETUD, which is the
executing agency for the on-going Urban Transport and Capacity Building (TA ) Project. CETUD has
gained familiarity with financial management of World Bank-financed projects which will be helpful for the
financial management of the UMIP.
5.    Presentation of CETUD: CETUD is a public institution created by Law #97-01 of February 24,
1997. The coincidence between its creation and the beginning of the TA Project causes some confusion
between its dual function as a public institution and as an executing agency. CETUD's organizational
structure (including the Plenary Assembly and the President) and its operations and functions are
determined by Decree #97.356 of April 8, 1997. This decree defines the mandate of CETUD, the
composition and the mandate of the Plenary Assembly, the mandate of the President, as well as CETUD's
resources. Besides the President, the internal organization includes: (a) the Permanent Secretariat led by
the Executive Secretary, who supervises a team of experts and reports to the President; and (b) the
Accountant representing the Public Treasurer and nominated by the Ministry of Finance.
6.    Accounting system: As a public establishment, CETUD is required by law to have its own
accounting system that must adhere to the West African Accounting System (Systeme Comptable Ouest
Africain or SYSCOA). As the Project executing agency, CETUD will have to keep separate accounts for
- 71 -



the Project activities. The accounting system of CETUD as a public establishment must allow the system to
become sustainable, as CETUD will continue to exist beyond Project completion. The assessment of
CETUD's accounting system must, therefore, consider this aspect.
7.    CETUD's current accounting system is relatively weak. This situation raises questions about the
reliability of the 1997 and 1998 financial statements. The auditor's reports on these financial statements
were qualified due to the materiality of the audit findings including: (i) lack of an internal control system;
(ii) non-assurance on the exhaustiveness and accuracy of the suppliers accounts balance; (iii) lack of
control on the establishment of payment checks causing double payments or overstatement of the amounts
to be paid; (iv) inaccuracy in the balance of "other debtors" and "remuneration due to employees" accounts
which are unduly recorded as other accounts receivable for an amount of FCFA 29 million corresponding
to funds misappropriated by the former accountant; (v) undue recording in the other liabilities account of
funds received as cash; (vi) lack of Bank account reconciliation statement for the IDA PPF; and (vii)
discrepancy between the balance and the cash ledger.
8.    The accounting system is manual. The accounts are kept using manual ledgers and, at the end of
the year, the financial statements are established by an accounting firm. Needless to say that the World
Bank's minimum financial management requirements, defined in OP/BP 10.02, are not met under these
conditions. The current system does not provide regular information on the on-going project's financial
situation, for example by component and sub-component activity. However, a firm was selected to furnish
and install a computerized financial management system using the LUCIE 2000 software. This software
which operates in a WINDOWS environment was assessed and found globally satisfactory as far as
CETUD's and the UMIP's financial management are concerned. LUCIE 2000 is an integrated software
offering various modules including: general accounting, budgeting, cost accounting, stock monitoring,
payroll system, human resources management, and sources of financing monitoring. The software is
multi-station, multi-file, multi-currency and offers large varieties for customization. All operations related
to a specific financier can be tracked by budget codes and expenditures categories through the sources of
financing module. This module includes standard reports and can also be customized to generate other
reports depending on the user's needs, such as the LACI models of financial statements.
9.    Regarding foreign currencies, the operations of a given financier are monitored in the currency of
the financier and in that of the borrower. And it is not possible to monitor the operations in a third
currency that would be common to all financiers participating in the funding of the project. Hence, a
project consolidated financial situation can be presented only in the currency of the borrower. It cannot be
done for example in US dollars or any other currency different from that of the borrower. This situation
limits the possibility to compare the project actual with the planed costs determined in US dollars
(COSTAB).
10.   Besides this shortfall in having a consolidated financial statement in a currency other than that of
the borrower, the financial management needs of CETUD and the UMIP as well as the Bank's minimum
requirements can be largely satisfied by the LUCIE 2000 software. The possibility of customizing
financial statements (statement of sources and uses of funds, LACI model financial statements) specific to
the UMIP was discussed and it was agreed with the software vendor that this will be done when the
software is installed.
11.   Other aspects essential in the LACI context, such as procurement and contract management as well
- 72 -



as physical progress monitoring, are not covered by the software. The possibilities of improving foreign
currencies' monitoring of operations were discussed with the software vendor who confirmed that this is
technically feasible.  It was agreed that the software would be reviewed to take account of the
above-mentioned comments, and additional developments would be carried out to include specific modules
on procurement, contract management, and physical progress monitoring. To that end, CETUD would
have to prepare specific terms of reference to be approved by the Bank and the software vendor would have
approximately three months to make the necessary changes. These aspects are included in the financial
management strengthening action plan below.
12.   Manual of administrative accounting and financial procedures: CETUD did not have a manual of
administrative accounting and financial procedures when it started its operation and activities under the
on-going TA Project. This shortfall was corrected in September 1999 when a manual was developed by an
accounting firm. The existing manual was not developed in view of the new project under preparation
which explains that some of the UMIP needs were not taken into account. In addition, the procedures
described in the manual are not being fully followed according to CETUD staff, who confirmed that there
are some parts of the manual that need to be updated following the recommendations of the organizational
audit report. The main findings and needs for improvement resulting from a thorough review of the manual
are presented below.
13.   As both an executing agency and an autonomous public establishment which will continue beyond
the Project, CETUD must have procedures for its own internal operation and specific procedures
addressing implementation of the Project activities. This dual need is not clearly defined in the existing
manual of procedures for the following main reasons:
e The section on accounting presents mainly the accounting standards and recording schemes. It will
have to be improved to include the following aspects: chart of accounts, cost-accounting and budget
codes, accounts ledger, and financial statement format for CETUD and for the Project, including LACI
financial statements.
- Regarding the operational procedures, the emphasis is on World Bank guidelines and do not take
much into account the requirements of other donors participating in the Project financing.
a The coordination mechanisms between CETUD and other executing or contract management
agencies are not covered in the manual. It would be necessary that these mechanisms and the flows of
information be presented within the operational procedures to enable CETUD to play effectively its
role as the agency responsible for the Project's overall financial management. This will ensure that all
necessary financial information is transmitted from the other agencies to CETUD with a satisfactory
level of reliability in order to obtain reliable financial statements for the Project.
14.   Given the weaknesses noted above, the manual will need to be updated according to detailed terms
of reference to be approved by the Bank. A revised version of the manual satisfactory to the Bank would be
a condition of effectiveness.
15.   Financial reporting: Given the status of the current financial management system, the quality of the
financial reporting is not satisfactory. An annual budget is prepared by CETUD. It is broken into two main
categories : Investment and Operating Expenses, each of which includes a list of activities to be financed. A
- 73 -



follow-up of the financial situation (commitments and disbursements) as well as physical progress of these
activities is done. However, detailed analysis is done only at year end and periodic interim financial
statements are not prepared. The annual financial statements included in the audit report consist of those
required by the SYSCOA. They include a balance sheet, an income statement, and a cash-flow statement.
The annual audit report does not include project-specific financial statements, such as a statement of
sources and uses of funds. The project statement of sources and uses of funds would include all sources of
financing regardless of origin and all uses of funds presented by expenditures categories and/or project
activities. Hence, there is no assurance about the reliability of the financial situation of a project as
presented by CETUD. In the context of the current Project, the SYSCOA models of financial statements
as well as the project statement of sources and uses of funds are necessary to evaluate the financial
situation of both CETUD as an autonomous public establishment and the project.
16.   For the UMIP, two sets of financial statements should be required. The following yearly financial
statements would be prepared:
(i) CETUD's annual financial statements according to the models proposed by SYSCOA (systeme
normal); and
(ii) the Project's annual financial statements consisting of a statement of all sources of financing and
uses of funds and a balance sheet.
17.    Besides these annual financial statements, the accounts' software that will be put in place would be
customized to generate automatically the LACI model financial statements at the end of each quarter. The
other LACI statements and reports on procurement and physical progress monitoring would have to be
included in the new modules to be developed in the software. These statements and reports would be
submitted quarterly.
18.   Auditing The financial statements of the Project will be audited for each fiscal year by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA and in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to
IDA. Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end
of the audited period. The auditor will provide an opinion on:
* the Project financial statements (statement of Source and Application of Funds and Balance Sheet)
* the statement of expenditures (SOEs)
+ the special account (SA).
19.   In addition to the audit of the Project's financial statements mentioned above, the CETUD proper
financial statements will also be audited for each fiscal year by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA
and in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of reasonable scope
and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the audited period.
20.    The auditor will also issue a separate management report on Intemal Controls and operational
procedures outlining any recommendations for improving internal accounting controls and operational
procedures identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
21.    The audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each financial year.
- 74 -



The selection of an auditor acceptable to IDA for the Project and the Leasing Cooperative, according to
terns of reference satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of effectiveness.
22.   Accounting staffing: The accounting staff consists mainly of an Accountant. But some aspects of
financial management, such as coordination of budget preparation and monitoring, are handled by the
Economist. The Accountant holds a degree in Finance and Accounting. She joined CETUD one year ago
and prior to that had worked two years in the Public Treasury in charge of the accounting at the Treasury.
Prior to joining CETUD, the Accountant did not have any previous experience in financial management of
World Bank-financed projects. She was trained in World Bank procurement guidelines, but did not receive
any training on disbursement procedures.
23.   Compared to the on-going project, the UMIP is much larger in terms of investment and the
complexity of institutional arrangements, including an external executing agency (SNCS) and the leasing
mechanism. To ensure sound financial management for the UMIP, it will be necessary to strengthen the
staffing both in terms of number of staff and capacities. As recommended by the organizational audit,
another accountant should be recruited. In addition, the current Accountant should be trained in
disbursement procedures.
Leasing mechanism
24.   Component 3 is to provide financial support for the development of a leasing mechanism necessary
for the renovation and rehabilitation of mass transit vehicles. A leasing cooperative, fully owned by private
operators of Cars Rapides, will be set up. It will receive 75 percent of the cost from the IDA credit and 25
percent from the private operators. These funds will be managed in accordance with the terms of a
management contract by a professional private manager, selected through competitive bidding and
remunerated in the form of a management fee.
25.   A consultant report was prepared on the legal and financial aspects of the leasing mechanism. It
indicates that the professional private manager will have the responsibility for administrative and financial
management of the leasing mechanism in accordance with the terms of the management contract. At this
stage, the emphasis should be put on the criteria for the selection of the private manager. Besides purely
technical criteria, the private manager's financial situation, at the time of selection and during the life of the
management contract, should also be considered through the private manager's annual financial statements,
on one hand, and the leasing mechanism funds, on the other. Submission of such audit reports should be
included in the financial covenant of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). In addition, the private
manager would be required to submit quarterly the financial situation of the leasing mechanism funds in
accordance with a format and a content acceptable to the Bank. To that end, the management contract will
have to be approved by Bank staff who will ensure that the above mentioned aspects are taken into account.
26.   The leasing cooperative will be financed partly by the proceeds of the credit which will be ceded
back in the form of a loan. The leasing cooperative should be financially viable and able to pay back the
loan. The financial viability of the leasing cooperative would be determined by the financial situation that
it would be obliged to present. This is all the more necessary to ensure sustainability, as the leasing
cooperative is expected to pursue financing activities after the closure of the Project. Because of its legal
status of an association, the leasing cooperative will have to keep its accounts according to the SYSCOA
and to present at least a balance sheet and an income statement under the simplified system (systeme allege
- 75 -



). As a condition of credit effectiveness, the leasing cooperative should have either put in place an
accounting system commensurate with its scale and satisfactory to IDA or signed a contract with an
accounting firm that will be in charge of its financial management, including keeping the accounts and
preparing the annual financial statements. The leasing cooperative's financial statements should be audited
annually and the audit report should be submitted to the IDA not later than six months after the end of each
period audited. This requirement will be included in the DCA financial covenants.
27.   Due to the legal status of the leasing cooperative as a financial institution, the private manager will
need to: (i) prepare annual financial statements according to the West African Economic and Monetary
Union banking sector accounting guidelines; and (ii) have these financial statements audited each year.
Submission of the audit reports to IDA, not later than six months after the end of each financial year, will
be required. This requirement will be included in the agreement to be signed with the private manager of
the leasing mechanism.
Use of the PMR-based disbursement method
28.   Based on the financial management assessment above and the financial management capacity
strengthening action plan, it is expected that the computerized financial management system that will be put
in place before credit effectiveness will enable CETUD to generate quarterly Project Management Reports
(PMRs) based on the LACI models. However, the existing human resource capacities are weak and
CETUD staff is not yet very familiar with the mechanisms of sound budget management which is a
prerequisite for PMR-based disbursement. These factors might raise questions about the reliability of the
LACI financial statements that will be prepared during the initial period of project implementation. In this
context, it is recommended to begin with traditional disbursement arrangements through a Special Account
and SOEs. However, CETUD will be required to submit quarterly PMRs right from the start of the
Project. The first PMR will be reviewed to identify possible weaknesses and to make recommendations to
improve the quality. It is expected that after 18 months of project implementation, CETUD's financial
management capacities will be strengthened enough to prepare accurate PMRs. A new assessment of the
financial management system will be done at the end of this 18-month period starting from date of
effectiveness to propose the use of the PMR-based disbursement method or any strengthening action plan.
- 76 -









C,: a 
0-
A    Q ><      L   &        C g m~~~~~ 0 
COj   40                  0-
0   o~~~~~o 
I  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1-~~~~                     00 10:  ,W;t 
~~ Ioz   \               1$! zz    2'
,~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ X  i
s SSim .  W           * \<; f _ S s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



