Report No. PID7577
Project Name                      Senegal-Urban Mobility Improvement Project (@
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Urban Transport
Project ID                        SNPE55472
Borrower(s)                       Government of Senegal
Implementing Agencies             Oversight: Ministry of Equipment and
Land Transport (MELT)
Day-to-day Coordination: Conseil
Executif des Transports Urbains de Dakar
(CETUD)
Tel: (221) 832 47 42
Fax: (221) 832 47 44
Civil Works Component: AGETIP or
other qualified agency
Railways rehabilitation : SNCS
Leasing scheme : Financing Cooperative
Environment Category              B
Date PID Prepared                 January 13, 1999
Appraisal                         February 2000
Projected Board Date              May 25, 2000
Country Background
1.      Senegal has a population of approximately 8 million, of
which 41% lives in the urban areas.    The population growth rate
is approximately 2. 7% per annum. During the period 1989-1993
GDP growth rate was 1.7%. At end 1993 however, economic growth
was a negative 2.1% and internal and external arrears reached 221
billion CFA Franc. In the urban areas the standard of living has
deteriorated. Poor economic performance was mainly due to:
inappropriate policies undertaken by the Government which placed
excessive regulation on the private sector; insufficient internal
adjustment measures undertaken; and the overvaluation of the
exchange rate of the CFA Franc.
2.      In addition to the devaluation of the CFA Franc in January
1994, the Government of Senegal (GOS) has taken steps to improve
the economy and enhance the activities of the private sector
through structural and institutional reforms. In 1994, following
an initial phase in which the private sector adopted a cautious
attitude, primary sector production and export oriented
activities started increasing significantly. Structural reforms
have covered price and trade liberalization, labor and regulatory
legislation, public enterprise reform, the public administration,
agriculture, energy, transport, social sectors and the
environment. As a result, in 1995 the economy grew at 4.8% in
real terms, in 1996 at 5.6 %, and in 1997 growth was about 4.7%.



Sector background
3.      The urban transport sector in Dakar has been facing a major
crisis for the last fifteen years, due to a combination of
increasing population growth (4t a year on average, with 2.4w in
Dakar and 8.5 W in Pikine-Guediawaye), massive daily pendulum
commuter migration due to the geographical configuration of the
Peninsula of Cape Vert, aging of the fleet (especially the public
transport vehicles with an average age is 18 years), lack of
traffic management measures, inappropriate regulation,
institutional fragmentation, lack of intermodal coordination. As
a result, commuter rides take longer and are more hazardous. In
addition, due to the lack of pedestrian facilities, weak law
enforcement, and insufficient road accidents preventive measures,
the number of traffic accidents has increased significantly
during the last decade. The level of air pollution generated by
motorized traffic increases dramatically in some urban areas.
4.      Dakar's population has grown from 18,000 in 1902, to 2.2
million in 1998 (54 percent of the urban population and 24
percent of the total population), and is expected to reach 3.2
million by the year 2010. Dakar is not equipped for the large
migration, forcing most of the immigrants to settle in
inhabitable areas. The rapid pace of expansion severely tests the
capacity of the public and private sector to efficiently deliver
basic urban services and manage economic, environmental and
investment resources. Those most affected by the mobility crisis
are the urban poor : they live in suburban areas, requiring to
travel long distance, use, when affordable, over-crowded
minibuses, generating increasing air pollution, and causing most
of the traffic accidents in Dakar. By lack of affordable and/or
reliable transport services, 27t of the population walk long
distance. A study carried out in September 1998 shows that they
are 4,3 millions daily travels in the metropolitan area of Dakar.
Out of these figures, 56t are motorized, among which 80t are
using public transport services. Hence, 2 million trips a day are
made by public transport . Ninety four (94) percent of the trips
made for work purpose and made by using public transport
services.
5.      Dakar has a long tradition of public transport, reinforced
by the geographical configuration of the Cape Vert Peninisula (34
Km between Dakar- City and Bargny). Meanwhile, the system is in
crisis for many years and generates important negative
externalities in terms of air pollution, traffic accidents,
traffic congestion. Public transport system in Dakar, a
potentially efficient mode of transport, is hindered by slow
operating speeds and the combination of vehicle-related accidents
and air pollution posing serious health threats to the urban
population. A study finalized in November 1998 indicates that the
annual cost of externalities (traffic accidents, air pollution,
traffic congestion and noise) caused by urban transport amounts
to FCFA 108 billion (equivalent to US$ 190 million), e.g. 4.6w of
the Senegalese GDP. Calculation indicate that the annual costs of
delays caused by traffic congestion is about US$ 70 million.
- 2 -



Project Objective
6.      The Development Objective of the Urban Mobility Improvement
Project is to contribute to the improvement of the safety,
efficiency and environmental quality of urban mobility in the
Dakar metropolitan area and, as far as road safety is concerned,
in Thibs and Kaolack. Special attention will be paid to improve
the mobility of the urban poor by (i) promoting public transport
services and (ii) ensuring the safe movement of pedestrians and
road users. This objective will be pursued by supporting further
institutional and regulatory reforms and policy enhancements in
the urban transport building on the achievements of the current
Urban Transport Reform (TA) Project.
Project Description
7.      The Urban Mobility Improvement Project is designed along two
phases within an Adaptable Lending Loan (APL). The first phase of
the APL will be implemented in four (4) years, the second phase
in three (3) years, each phase being considered as a "Project".
The first phase (Project) will include the following five (5)
components: (i) Rehabilitation of urban roads and
infrastructure targeted on public transport, and pedestrians,
complemented by road safety action plans and traffic management
measures: (ii) Rehabilitation of the basic infrastructures of the
suburban line of the Railways: (iii) Financial support and
capacity building to the establishment and operation of a
commercial leasing scheme to assist the small urban transport
operators (microenterprises) in the -partial -renewal of their
fleet; (iv) Design and implementation of an Urban Air Quality
Management Strategy, including the construction of vehicle
technical control centers and the definition and monitoring
measures to abate Air Pollution (combination of fuel and vehicles
measures) : (v) Capacity Building on Air Pollution, Road Safety,
Land Use, Transport Planning, studies on urban mobility issues
and support to the continuing implementation of the institutional
reform.
Project Cost and Financing
8.      The total project cost of the Program is estimated (with
contingencies and inflation) at US$ 134.40 million. The first
phase (considered as a "Project") will cost US$ 103 million.
IDA contribution for the first phase would be US$ 70 million. The
Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) would finance US$ 17.30
million and the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) would finance US$ 7
million. The IDA contribution to the second phase is estimated to
amount to US$ 25 million.
Project Implementation
9.      The Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MET) will be the
supervisory Ministry. The Conseil Executif des Transports Urbains
de Dakar (CETUD, established by the Law of February 24, 1997)
will act as the Implementing Agency, under the technical tutelage
-3 -



of the MET and the financial tutelage of the Ministry of Economy
and Finance (MEF). As far as the rehabilitation of the suburban
line of the Railways is concerned, the Government of Senegal
(GOS) shall relent the proceeds of the IDA credit to the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Senegalais (SNCS) under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered between the GOS and SNCS. As far as
the leasing scheme is concerned, the GOS shall relent the
proceeds of the IDA credit to a Financing Cooperative under a
subsidiary financing agreement.
The CETUD is composed by three main bodies : (a) the Assemblee
PleniOre, gathering all three major actors of the sector :
Ministries, Local Government, the transport industry -operators
(b) the Permanent Secretariat acting as technical and regulatory
body and (c) the President who is appointed by the President of
the Republic, under a vote by the Assemblee PleniOre.
Project Sustainability
10.     Sustainability of the proposed leasing scheme
Even though there is a strong need to renew and rehabilitate the
Cars Rapides fleet, there has been no supply response of the
market so far because of the high risk of any credit or leasing
scheme as perceived by the private banking and leasing
profession. In the proposed project, this risk has been
recognized up-front. Accordingly, the efforts put in the
preparation of this component have been focused on devising a
series of measures aimed at mitigating the risk of payment or
technical default under the scheme.
(a) Phasing of the pilot project: Phase 1 of the proposed APL
will keep the planned investment to an amount of $25.20 million.
It is only under Phase 2, based on the progress achieved and
lessons learned during Phase 1, that most of the need identified
for the renewal and rehabilitation of the old public transport
vehicles would be satisfied if the leasing scheme component under
this phase becomes effective.
(b) Private operators to be certified eligible to the scheme:
Only the private operators who will be certified as eligible will
have access to the proposed financing facility. To be certified
as professionally proficient, a private operator will have to
follow an introductory training program on the basic principles
of fleet management and undertake to hire only drivers who will
have received professional training.
(c) Private operators must belong to a professional partnership
(Groupement d'Interot Economique ou G.I.E.): Eligible private
operators will belong to one of the G.I.E.'s which will be
constituted for that purpose. The G.I.E.'s, not the individual
private operators, will enter into leasing agreements with the
leasing cooperative.
(d) Vehicles to be assured with insurance companies accredited
for that purpose: The vehicles to be financed will be covered
under an insurance policy covering civil responsibility, theft,
fire and third party collision damage, subscribed by one of the
G.I.E.'s with one of the insurance companies which will be
- 4 -



accredited for that purpose by the Minister of Finance and
satisfactory to IDA.
(e) Eligible operators to be member of the leasing cooperative:
In order to be eligible to the scheme, the private operators will
have to be members of the leasing cooperative. They will
contribute an amount equal to 25t of the amount of their
participation in the leasing scheme to the capital of the leasing
cooperative. Accordingly, the private operators will have a
significant pecuniary interest in the success of the scheme and a
strong sense of ownership in it.
(f) Mutual guarantee fund: A monthly contribution equal to 3t of
the monthly lease payments will be added to the monthly lease
payments paid by the private operators and paid to a mutual
guarantee fund managed by a local bank or financial institution
satisfactory to IDA.
(g) Semi-annual technical check: The public transport vehicles
to be financed will be submitted to semi-annual technical checks
to be performed by the technical control center to be set up and
financed under the proposed project. The concession for the
operation of the control center will be granted to a private
specialized professional operator to be selected through
competitive bidding. Detailed technical specifications and
performance indicators will be included in the concession
agreement.
(h) Affordability of the scheme: One of the key factors
affecting the sustainability of the scheme is the affordability
of the lease payments relative to the monthly net operating
revenues generated by vehicles to be leased. An analysis of the
operating costs (other than financing) of the Cars Rapides has
shown that, under the new mode of operations under the proposed
reform, the net operating revenues available will cover the
financing costs and to remunerate the owners of the Cars Rapides.
Lessons learned from past operations in the Country/Sector
11.     The ongoing Urban Transport Reform Project (CRNo.0240) has
paved the way for a comprehensive reform in the urban transport
sector. The main issues as well as the long term strategy to
assist solving this crisis has been detailed in the Urban
Transport Sector Policy Letter signed by the GOS on September 25,
1996 and complemented by a Letter signed on December 31, 1999
regarding the decision of the GOS to award the concessionning of
the suburban line of the Railways to a private operator.
The ongoing TA has helped the GOS to design and implement the
first step of a comprehensive urban transport reform. The
establishment and operation of the CETUD is a key development on
a long term improvement of this key economic and social sector.
The main lesson is that a sound institutional reform is the
prerequisite for any major investments. In addition, there is a
need to integrate all the components of the urban mobility :
transport and planning, real estate, services, protection of
pedestrians, consideration for safety and reduction of air
pollution.
12.     The project will also integrate lessons learned from (i) the
- 5 -



Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP) and (ii) the
Clean Air Initiative in sub-Saharan African cities. Both Programs
are coordinated by the World Bank. The proposed operation will
integrate this comprehensive approach already defined in the
Urban Transport Policy Letter. Finally, lessons and experiences
from other urban transport projects in the world demonstrate that
urban transport, to be sustained, needs to have consideration
about moving people and goods, more than vehicles.
Poverty Category
13.     The proposed project is a poverty-focused intervention,
geared to improve the safe mobility of the most affected by the
persistence of the urban transport crisis in Dakar: the urban
poor. Project benefits of safe travel and journey time savings
will accrue the well-being of the population in Dakar.
Specifically, accessibility of the low-income segment of the
population to employment centers will be greatly enhanced.
Construction of sidewalks, pedestrians facilities, footbridges
would greatly improve travel environment of the low-income
groups.
Environmental Aspects
14.     The project is expected to bring notable improvements to
Urban Air Quality. In addition, it will also reduce congestion,
road accidents rates and travel time, thus bringing a qualitative
change in the urban area and contribute to the improvement of the
urban productivity on a environmentally sustainable basis. The
expected operational improvement of the urban railway line (PTB)
will also reduce the level and gravity of air pollution. This
project is a category "B" Project. An Environmental Assessment of
the proposed operation has been carried out. The draft report was
issued end of February 2000. The final report is expected by end
April 2000. As the planned civil works are either minor or within
the right-of ways (railways), involuntary resettlement will not
occur. The adoption of the Environmental Plan is by the GOS is
one of the conditions for credit effectiveness.
Program Objective Categories
15.     In addition to poverty alleviation, improvement of life
conditions in the targeted populations, including the creation of
gainful employment opportunities, the project will also ensure
the most efficient use of the existing infrastructure and reduce
the adverse effects of motorized vehicle use. Successful
implementation of the project would result in improved personal
mobility and urban efficiency in general, whilst reducing the
potential for road accidents.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
- 6 -



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Patrick Bultynck
AFTU2
Room J1l-101
Tel: (202) 473 4549
Fax: (202) 473 8249
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain
components may not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 12, 2000.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
-8-



