Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3354-SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Mobility Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 5, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3354-SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated September 25, 
1996, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to strengthen the Borrower’s urban transport 
sub-system, and a letter, dated December 31, 1999, describing a program 
of actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen the Borrower’s 
urban railways system (both the letters are collectively called the 
Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program;
Page  2
(C)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its 
execution of the Program through a series of Credits over a period of 
seven years, the proceeds of such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower 
for implementing the Program;
(D)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by 
Société 
Nationale de Chemins de Fer du Sénégal (SNCS) with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make part 
of the proceeds of the Credit provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Credit) available to SNCS, as set forth in this Agreement;
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Agence Française 
de Développement (AFD) and the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) (the 
cofinanciers) loans and grants in an approximate amount of $24,800,000 to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and AFD, and the 
Borrower and NDF respectively (the Cofinancing Agreements); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows;
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement: 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Association de Financement” or “AF” means the association 
to be created, pursuant to Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement, for the 
purpose of assisting the Borrower to carry out Part C of the Project, and 
which shall include private operators' groups; 
(b)
“AWPB” means the annual work program and budget prepared by 
the Borrower for the purpose of the Project pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c)
“CETUD” means Conseil Exécutif des Transports Urbains de 
Dakar, a professional public institution established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s law No. 97-01, dated February 24, 1997, for the purpose of 
implementing and monitoring the Borrower’s public transport policy;
(d)
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” means the environmental 
mitigation plan to be prepared and adopted by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (g) of this Agreement detailing the measures proposed to 
address the adverse environmental impact of investments under the 
Project; 
(e) 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower  
Page  3
starting January 1 and ending December 31, each calendar year;
(f)
“Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine” or FCFA” mean 
the currency of the Borrower; 
(g)
"Investment Enterprise" means groups of operators with which 
the AF has signed a Lease Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(h)
"Investment Project" means a leasing scheme implemented by 
an Investment Enterprise under a Lease Agreement; 
(i)
"Lease Financing" or "Lease Agreement" means an agreement 
entered into between the AF and an Investment Enterprise whereby the AF 
leases to the Investment Enterprise a vehicle or vehicles, financed from 
the proceeds of the Credit, against the payment of rent;  
(j)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(k)
“Project Account” means each of the accounts referred to in 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and SNCS of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(m)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual adopted by 
the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01(f) of this Agreement containing, 
inter alia, work plans, training plans and procedures, and accounting and 
financial management, and procurement procedures, to be used for the 
purpose of implementation of the Project, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Execution Manual; 
(n)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Association on April 13, 1999 and on 
behalf of the Borrower on May 25, 1999; 
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(q)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and SNCS pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(r)
“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the AF pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-two 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 52,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in FCFA a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Page  5
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing 
September 15, 2010, and ending March 15, 2040. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on March 15, 2020 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, D and E of the Project through 
CETUD, and Part C of the Project through the Association de Financement, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause SNCS to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of SNCS 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable SNCS to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
Page  6
interfere with such performance.
(c)
The Borrower shall make available, on a non-reimbursable 
basis, the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from Categories 1 (b), 1 (c), 
2 (b) and 3 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1, to SNCS under 
a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SNCS, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit 
to the AF under a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the AF, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association which shall include, inter alia, 
that the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from Category 2 (c) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to be onlent with: (i) an interest 
rate of not less than 6% per annum; (ii) a repayment period not exceeding 
6 years, and (iii) a provision that the AF shall keep a margin of 2% 
maximum. 
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement and the Subsidiary Financing Agreement respectively in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part  B of the Project  shall be 
carried out by SNCS pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01, 
the Borrower shall: (a) open and maintain until the completion of the 
Project, an account (the Project Account), on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association; (b) annually, by June 30 each year, 
deposit into the Project Account, an amount equivalent to a minimum of 
$800,000, representing the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the 
Project for that year; and (c) ensure that the amounts deposited into the 
Project Account shall be used exclusively for the purposes of defraying 
the cost of expenditures incurred for the execution of the Project, and 
not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  7
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
Page  8
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than 18 months after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that SNCS will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the 
event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
Page  9
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and SNCS; 
(b)
the AF has been established in accordance with the laws of 
the Borrower and its Statuts have been adopted;
(c)
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and AF;
(d)
the Borrower has established a financial accounting and 
procurement management system acceptable to the Association;
(e) 
the Borrower has appointed the auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, with terms of reference and 
qualifications acceptable to the Association, and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(f)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, 
in form and substance acceptable to the Association; 
(g) 
the Borrower has adopted the Environmental Mitigation Plan, 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by SNCS, and is legally binding upon SNCS in accordance with its 
terms; 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized by 
the Borrower and SNCS and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SNCS 
in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly 
authorized by the Borrower and AF and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and AF in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  10
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
B. P. 4017
Rue René Ndiaye
Dakar,
Senegal
Cable address:
Telex:
MINIFINANCES
3203G
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 90% 
Page  11
(a) 
Under Parts A, D 
   11,150,000
D and E 
of the Project
(b) 
Under Part B
    5,500,000
(excluding
Part B.1 (ii))
of the Project
(c) 
Under Part B.1 (ii)
    6,300,000
of the Project
(2)
Goods
90% 
(a) 
Under Parts A,
      750,000
D and E 
of the Project
(b) 
Under Part B
      500,000
of the Project
(3)
Public transport
   11,950,000
75%
vehicles
(4)
Consultants’
100% 
services, including 
training
(a) 
Under Parts A,
    7,400,000
D and E 
of the Project
(b) 
Under Part B 
      600,000
 
of the Project
(c) 
Under Part C 
      300,000
of the Project
(5)
Operating Costs
      450,000
85%
(6)
Refunding of
      450,000
Amount due 
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
    6,850,000
TOTAL
   52,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “operating costs” means incremental expenditures 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring 
including office consumables (including communication expenses), staff 
travel and associated subsistence allowances, salaries for incremental 
contractual and temporary staff, office rental, office supplies and 
maintenance, fuel and maintenance for vehicles and equipment and
audits 
but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants; and
(b)
the “public transport vehicles” means the vehicles, new or 
second-hand, procured for leasing under Part C of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
Page  12
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures Categories 1 (b), 2 (b) and 3 
(b):
(i)
a contract, between SNCS and the concessionaire 
selected by SNCS to operate 
the sub-urban line, has 
been entered into and said contract has entered into 
force; and
(ii)
the Borrower has completed the transfer of the market 
in the Thiaroye Station 
to a new location and freed the 
right of way of the said station; and
(c)
expenditures for goods and services supplied under a 
contract which any national or international financing institution or 
agency other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under any other credit or grant.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(i) works under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; 
(ii) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
(iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services of individual consultants 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the improvement of 
the safety, efficiency and the quality of the urban mobility in the 
metropolitan area of Dakar and, road safety in Thiès and Kaolack, by 
promoting public transport services and facilitating the safe movements 
of pedestrians. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Road Infrastructure, Road Safety and Traffic Management
1.
Rehabilitation and construction of road infrastructure, including 
drainage improvements, primarily for the development of public transport 
and pedestrian safety in the Dakar metropolitan area.
2. 
Design and implementation of a road safety action plan for the 
Dakar, Thiès, and Kaolack areas, including inter alia: (i) management of 
accident-prone junctions identified as traffic accident blackspots; (ii) 
improvement of road infrastructure, inter alia, through construction of 
pedestrian sidewalks, pedestrian bridges over roads with heavy traffic, 
installation of upright and surface signing, lighting, and markings, 
installation of speed-reducing devices at busy locations such as schools 
and hospitals and protection of non-motorized traffic through the 
construction of paths separated from motorized traffic, construction of 
Page  13
road median dividers; and (iii) carrying out of awareness campaigns to 
raise the awareness of transport users and operators about road safety 
and the provision of training of traffic police.
3.
Development and implementation of traffic management strategies to 
make better use of existing facilities for movement of persons and goods 
including (i) the construction and support to the management of terminals 
for  mass transit vehicles and road-rail feeder stations at selected 
urban locations; (ii) the construction of bus stop areas to enable mass 
transit vehicles to load and unload passengers safely; (iii) the 
construction of road terminals for mass transit vehicles at selected 
urban areas; (iv) the construction of stations on the outskirts of Dakar 
to alleviate downtown congestion from interurban traffic and heavy 
vehicles; (v) the construction of taxi terminals and parking facilities; 
(vi) the preparation of an Urban Mobility Plan for Dakar area (Plan de 
Déplacement dans l'Agglomération de Dakar) for inter-modal transport, 
urban planning and housing, including the purchase of mapping equipment; 
and (vii) the preparation of a plan to increase public transport services 
commercial speed.
4.
Provision of technical advisory services for the carrying out of 
engineering studies, and supervision works. 
Part B:
Pedestrians’ Movement and Traffic Security along the 
Suburban Railway Line
1.
Upgrading of suburban railway infrastructure through, inter alia,: 
(i) the construction of a third track between the localities of Hann and 
Fass Mbao; (ii) the fencing of the railway right-of-way between Cyrnos 
and Fass Mbao (24 kilometers) as well as in densely-populated areas such 
as Mbao and Rufisque and construction of about 15 footbridges; (iii) the 
elimination of the most-trafficked rail-road level grade crossings 
through construction of four overpasses and underpasses in Hann, Marché 
aux Poissons, Thiaroye and Rufisque, and the improvement of other level 
grade crossings between Dakar and Rufisque; (iv) the transfer of the 
freight terminal from its present location in Dakar Center to a new 
location in Bel Air; (v) the rehabilitation of the signaling between 
Dakar and Rufisque; (vi) the rehabilitation of the central railway 
station of Dakar and the railway station of Rufisque; and (vii) carrying 
out of studies, engineering, and supervision tasks related to the 
activities described in (i) through (vi) above. 
2.
Acquisition of technical advisory services required for 
implementing the process of concessioning of suburban railway services 
including, pre-selection of potential strategic shareholders in the 
concession company, preparation of Requests for Technical Proposals, 
preparation of Requests for Financial Proposals, evaluation of technical 
and financial proposals, and supervision of the implementation of the 
concession.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services including studies, 
engineering and supervision tasks  in connection with the activities 
carried out under 1 and 2 above.
Part C:
Leasing 
1.
Implementation of a leasing mechanism necessary for the renovation 
of mass transit vehicles (Car rapides), including inter alia support to 
strengthen the technical and management capacity of the mass transit 
vehicles operators and their professionalization. 
2.
Provision of financing to enable mass transit private operators to 
have access to credit facility to renew their fleet, and acquisition by 
Page  14
the AF of approximately 300 new vehicles or 600 rehabilitated and 
refurbished vehicles which meet safety and toxic emissions standards, for 
leasing. 
Part D:
Urban Air Quality Management
Carrying out of a program of actions aimed at improving air quality 
in the Dakar metropolitan area including: (i) construction of three 
automobile monitoring centers: the Diamniadio pilot station, the Keur 
Massar station, and the Ex-TPSOM station; (ii) establishment of an 
observatory to track urban pollution; (iii) support for the introduction 
and supervision of an urban air quality action plan including but not 
limited to the gradual introduction of unleaded gasoline, the support for 
the decentralization of some administrative centers to the outskirts of 
the city, public awareness campaigns targeting users and sector 
specialists (for example, automobile and fuel distributors), and a toxic 
emissions control program for motorized vehicles; and (iv) awareness 
campaigns and consultation meetings with road users and the transport 
industry, including the fuel dealers.
Part E:
Capacity-Building and Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening of the sector capacity with regard to air pollution, 
road safety, inter-modal policy and promotion of mass transport, urban 
planning, and tools and techniques for evaluating performance and 
supervising the Project, through the provision of  technical advisory 
services and training.
2. 
Carrying out of ad-hoc studies and assessments on urban transport, 
air pollution, urban planning, consistent with the Dakar's growth and 
land-use masterplan as well as feasibility studies to prepare the second 
phase of the Program. 
3. 
Carrying out of the institutional reform of the sector and support 
CETUD in its capacity as project executing agency and regulatory 
authority for urban transport in the Dakar metropolitan area.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
Page  15
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for supply of mass transit vehicles and works estimated to 
cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more shall be prequalified in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more 
each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower. 
(d)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or 
more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in 
the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of 
the Guidelines.
(e)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to 
cost $500,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with 
the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, and goods 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 equivalent may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Page  16
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
4. 
Contracts for vehicles for the private sector, under Part C of the 
Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less, and 
$1,000,000 in the aggregate, may be procured in accordance with 
established commercial practices, satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more,  and for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999,  (the Consultant Guidelines), and the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  17
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for works supervision and financial audit may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for small studies, advisory services, training and tasks 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  18
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not 
later than March 1 each year a draft preliminary annual work program and 
budget. The Borrower and the Association shall discuss each preliminary 
AWPB at the joint annual review referred to in paragraph 3 of this 
Schedule, and, after incorporating the comments of the Association, the 
Borrower shall, not later than March 30, adopt the annual work program 
and budget (AWPB).
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out, not later than December 31 of 
each year, jointly with the Association, a comprehensive annual project 
implementation review aimed at: (i) documenting progress toward 
objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to project 
implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, 
targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project as of the date of the review, and ensuring 
responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the objectives of the 
Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the 
review referred to in (a) above, furnish to the Association a report, in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an 
evaluation of the progress achieved in Project implementation.
(c)
Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall 
carry out recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association's comments thereon.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about August 31, 2002, 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2002, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
Page  19
matter.
Part C of the Project  (Association de Financement)
5.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, and without 
limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be 
entered into with the AF, pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, 
shall include, inter alia, provisions whereby the AF:
(i)
shall declare its commitment to the objectives of  
the Project as set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to this end it shall agree to carry out Part 
C of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with 
appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and environmental practices 
and criteria, and to provide promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, 
services and other resources required 
therefor;
(ii)
shall agree that procurement of goods, works and 
services required for the 
Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit under this 
Agreement shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 
to this Agreement;
(iii)
shall agree to comply with the audit requirements 
under the Project, inter 
alia, to prepare financial 
statements in accordance with standards acceptable 
to the Association and audit its accounts by independent auditors 
acceptable 
to the Association and submit the audited 
accounts to the Association no later 
than six months 
after the close of its fiscal year;
(iv)
shall agree to report quarterly to the Borrower and 
the Association on the 
progress of Part  C of the  
Project and on the evolution of the monitoring  
indicators;
(v)
shall agree to submit to the Borrower and the 
Association for review and 
comments, its annual 
capital  and operating budgets;
(vi)
shall participate fully in the Project reviews 
referred to in paragraph 3 of 
this Schedule;
(vii)  shall agree to prepare and submit to the Association, 
not later than six 
months after the  Closing Date, a 
report on the execution and operation of 
Part C of the Project, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association; and
(viii) shall agree to implement, in conjunction with the 
Borrower, the Environmental 
Mitigation Plan.
Terms and Conditions for the Investment Projects under Part C 
1.
For the purpose of the management of the Lease Financing under Part 
C of the Project, AF shall enter into a Convention with a private 
management company consistent with the Project Implementation Manual, and 
which shall specify, inter alia, the mechanism of operation of the 
Page  20
leasing scheme by said private management company, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Each lease shall have a maturity not exceeding six years including 
grace periods of up to one  year. 
3.
Eligible Investment Enterprises shall contribute a minimum of 25% 
of Investment Project costs.
4.
Investment Enterprises shall carry out initial preparation of 
Investment Projects. AF shall cause the private management company to 
review and approve the Investment Project in accordance with the Cahier 
de charge, the Project Implementation Manual and its own analysis 
procedures which shall continue to be satisfactory to the Association. 
The appraisal evaluation shall cover relevant information about the 
Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including inter alia, 
its technical soundness, financial viability, economic efficiency and 
managerial capacity as well as loan security requirements.
Eligibility Criteria of Investment Projects
5.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no Investment 
Projects shall be considered for financing , unless:
(a)
it is supported by an appraisal of the Investment Project’s 
technical viability, and market analysis, and the Investment Enterprise's 
managerial capacity; 
(b)
it is for a minimum of $300,000 and a maximum of $1,000,000; 
and
(c)
present a summary cash flow analysis to indicate the 
Investment Enterprise's viability and ability to service the debt.
6.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment 
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit 
unless the Lease Financing for such Investment Project shall have been 
approved in accordance with the procedures described in the Project 
Implementation Manual.
7.
Investments shall be made on terms whereby AF shall obtain by 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
AF, the Borrower and the Association, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate 
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and 
to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement and (ii) 
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the Investment Projects; 
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with the Borrower and the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, such goods and the 
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
Page  21
(d)
require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and 
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or AF shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to 
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise 
to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment 
Enterprise to perform its obligations under the lease agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to CFAF 2,800,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to CFAF 1,400,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
Page  22
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the  Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
Page  23
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, 
THE FORMAT WOULD NOT FIT INTO DATABASE)
