                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR0000955




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-33540 IDA-3354A)




                                  ON A

                                CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF 52.2 SDR MILLION
                      (US$95 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                FOR AN

                URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM




                             March 27, 2009




Water and Urban II
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective March 27, 2009)
                                 Currency Unit = FCFA
                                  SDR 1.00 = US$1.51
                                 US$1.00 = FCFA 485

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                   January - December

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AATR     Autonomous Road Work Agency (Agence Autonome des Travaux Routiers)
AFD      French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement)
AFTU     Urban Transport Financing Group (Association de Financement des Transports Urbains)
AGETIP   Public Works Executing Agency (Agence pour l'Exécution de Travaux d'Intérêt Public)
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CETUD    Executive Council for Urban Transport in Dakar (Conseil Exécutif des Transports Urbains
         de Dakar)
CR       Mini-bus (Car Rapide)
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FDTU     Development Fund for Urban Transport (Fonds de Développement des Transports
         Urbains)
GIE      Economic Interest Group (Groupement d'Intérêt Economique)
IDA      International Development Association
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
MECTRANS Mutual Saving and Loan Association for Transport Companies of Dakar (Mutuelle
         d'Epargne et de Crédit Des Transporteurs de la Région de Dakar)
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NDF      Nordic Development Fund
PAMU     Urban Mobility Improvement Project (Programme d'Amélioration de la Mobilité Urbaine
         à Dakar)
PDO      Project Development Objective
PTB      Suburban Train (Petit Train de Banlieue)
SNCS     National Railroad Company (Société Nationale de Chemins de Fer du Sénégal)
SSATP    Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
TA       Technical Assistance
TTL      Task Team Leader


                             Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekweseli
                          Country Director: Habib Fetini
                            Sector Manager: Eustache Ouayoro
                       Project Team Leader: Christian Diou
                         ICR Team Leader: Christian Diou
                       ICR Primary Author: Joseph W.B. Bredie




                                            ii

                                    REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
               URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM



Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv
 B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................. iv
 C. Ratings Summary...................................................................................................... iv
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
 E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... v
 F. Results Framework Analysis...................................................................................... v
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... ix
 H. Restructuring............................................................................................................. ix
 I. Disbursement Profile.................................................................................................. x
 1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................... 1
 2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 4
 3.    Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................ 8
 4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................... 12
 5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................. 12
 6.    Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 14
 7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....... 15
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 22
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 26
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR......................................................................... 28
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 31
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 32
 MAP IBRD 30877




                                                          iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                     URBAN MOBILITY
Country:                Senegal                Project Name:         IMPROVEMENT
                                                                     PROJECT
                                                                     IDA-33540, IDA-
Project ID:             P055472                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     3354A
ICR Date:               03/25/2009             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                    Borrower:
                                                                     SENEGAL
Original Total
                        XDR 52.2M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 49.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
CETUD, SNCS (TRANSRAIL)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement - AFD)
Nordic Development Fund (NDF)


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/02/1999     Effectiveness:                         05/14/2001
Appraisal:             01/28/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/25/2000     Mid-term Review:                       01/29/2004
                                      Closing:             12/31/2005        09/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:           Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory


                                              iv

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                       Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Railways                                                       21                  14
Roads and highways                                             64                  56
Sub-national government administration                         15                  30


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                          Primary           Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                Secondary          Secondary
Other urban development                                       Primary           Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Habib M. Fetini                  Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:           Eustache Ouayoro                 Letitia A. Obeng
Project Team Leader:      Christian Diou                   Patrick Bultynck
ICR Team Leader:          Christian Diou
ICR Primary Author:       Joseph W. B. Bredie



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective was to improve the safety, efficiency and
environmental quality of urban mobility in the Dakar metropolitan area and road safety in
Thiès and Kaolack. Special attention to improving mobility for the urban poor by: (i)



                                             v

promoting public transport services; and (ii) ensuring the safe movement of pedestrians
and road users.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objective remained unchanged throughout the life of the
project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval            Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Reduction in traffic congestion and travel time for commuters
                Amount of time lost in
                traffic on four selected
                axes: 1,527.07 hours /day
Value           or 16,851 veh.hour/day:   Time lost: - 10%
quantitative or A: 3401                   A: 3231                             A: 4110
qualitative     B: 5705                   B: 5420                             B: 7581
                C: 2431                   C: 2309                             C: 3141
                D: 5314                   D: 5048                             D: 6103

Date achieved 05/04/2000                   12/31/2005                          05/2008
Comments        By these measures commuters lost an average of 30% more hours in traffic in
(incl. %        2008 compared to 2000. Although the target is not met, the situation improved
achievement)    after 2005 when urban road upgrading programs neared completion.

Indicator 2 :   Increase in market share of public transport and percentage of customers satisfied
                with service
Value
quantitative or 73.1%                     +5%                                 Declined to 59.6%

qualitative                                                                   in 2008 (-18.5%).

Date achieved 05/04/2000                   12/31/2005                          05/2008
                Target not reached. The market share of public transport fell short by 18.5%,
Comments        compared to the original target (78.1%). However: (i) market share has remained
(incl. %       almost stable since end-2005, at which time it was 61.9%; and (ii) in absolute
achievement)   terms there is a strong increase of the number of public transport trips in the
               recent years (+12% from 2007 to 2008).
Indicator 3 :   Reduced levels of air pollution
                Est. prod. CO: 25 223     Est. prod. CO: -                    Est. prod. CO: 37

Value           T/year (adjusted)         1%                                  274 T/year (+48%)

quantitative or Est. prod. NOx : 18 458   Est. prod. NOx : -                  Est. prod. NOx: 28

qualitative     T/year (adjusted)         1%                                  955 T/year (+57%)
                Est. prod. HC: 3 932      Est. prod. HC: -                    Est. prod. HC : 6
                T/year (adjusted)         1%                                  764 T/year (+72%)
Date achieved 05/04/2000                   12/31/2005                          05/2008
Comments        Target not reached. Estimates of levels of air pollution in 2008 need to take into
(incl. %       account the surge in the number of vehicles registered in Dakar (from 40,042 in
achievement)   1997 to 98,243 in 2007 or +145%) and the annual increase in the number of


                                                vi

               kilometers/vehicles (+8.5% between 1999 and 2008).
Indicator 4 :  Reduced accidents per capita
                                                                               Accidents per 1000

Value          Accidents per 1000 veh:                                         veh: 22,6% (GMAT

quantitative or61,4% (BAC 97)               Accidents: - 5%                    08)

qualitative    Deaths per 1000 veh: 2.1 Deaths: - 10%                          Death per 1000
               (BAC 97)                                                        veh: 0.56 (GMAT
                                                                               08)
Date achieved 05/04/2000                    12/31/2005                         05/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Target exceeded. Injuries dropped by 40% and deaths by 68%.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Cost of externalities
               Direct and indirect costs

Value          of congestion: CFAF108 Cost of                                  CFAF142.9 billion

quantitative orbillion (3.5% of 1998        congestion: - 10%                  +32%

qualitative    GNP) including               (CFAF97.2                          (est. 2.2% of 2008
               environmental                billion)                           GNP)
               externalities
Date achieved 05/04/2000                    12/31/2005                         05/2008
               Target not met. Since the methodology used to calculate cost at appraisal was not
               specified, the use of a different methodology from 2004 onwards makes results
               incomparable. The cost of time lost in congestion alone, measured by a well-
               defined methodology, actually declined by 10% between 2004 and 2008,
               reflecting a reduction of congestion and a better control over the sector during the
Comments       time when works were implemented and going back to 2000 level. However, the
(incl. %       overall result for the entire period of the project was an increase in direct and
achievement)   indirect costs of congestion by 32%, but with the ICR team unable to attribute
               this increase to either the increase in externalities between 2000 and 2004, during
               which time no works were completed, or to the changed methodology. In order to
               obtain comparable results, the baseline would have to be adjusted using the 2004-
               2008 methodology, but the raw baseline data is not available to carry out this
               analysis.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                 approval           Revised      Completion or
                                                documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Increased throughput (in terms of passengers) of public transport corridors
                                                                               Commercial speed
Value          Commercial speed                                                Collective
(quantitative  Collective transport:        +10%                               transport: 8.18
or qualitative)10.66 km/h to 23.23 km/h
               on selected axes                                                km/h to 22 km/h on
                                                                               selected axes.
Date achieved 05/04/2000                    12/31/2005                         05/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Target not met. Commercial speed decreased by about 30 %.



                                                 vii

achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Strengthened CETUD management capacity
                                                                            CETUD regulates
                                                                            public transport
                                                                            fares, routes and
Value                                     Strengthening of                  stops, and
(quantitative  None                       CETUD as a                        coordinates policy
or qualitative)                           regulatory
                                          institution                       and financial
                                                                            aspects of public
                                                                            transport with other
                                                                            agencies.
Date achieved 05/04/2000                  12/31/2005                        03/16/2009
Comments       Target partially met. CETUD has been strengthened in terms of capacity, staff,
(incl. %       and mandate. All planned TA activities were implemented, but further effort is
achievement)   needed in order to consolidate project achievements.
Indicator 3 :  Improved effectiveness and efficiency of the urban roads
                                                                            50 kilometers of
                                                                            urban road network
                                                                            and infrastructure

                                          Urban road                        including 27

                                          network and urban                 intersections have

                                          transport                         been rehabilitated,

                                          infrastructure in                 and redesigned. In
                                                                            addition, two
Value                                     Dakar                             vehicular and 13
(quantitative  None                       rehabilitated,                    pedestrian
or qualitative)                           maintained, and
                                          redesigned to                     overpasses have

                                          promote public                    been constructed.

                                          transport and                     Maintenance of the

                                          assure pedestrian                 road network in

                                          safety                            general and that of
                                                                            traffic lights and
                                                                            signs in particular is
                                                                            inadequate.

Date achieved 05/04/2000                  12/31/2005                        03/16/2009
Comments
(incl. %       Target evaluated as 95% achieved, compared to the works program laid out at

achievement)   appraisal.

Indicator 4 :  Urban transport leasing scheme
Value                                     300 new or 600                    505 new mini-buses
(quantitative  None                       second-hand                       replacing the same
or qualitative)                           minibuses                         number of old ones.
Date achieved 05/04/2000                  12/31/2005                        01/06/2009

Comments       168% achieved, since 505 new mini-buses were provided vs 300 planned. . The

(incl. %       indicator was flexible to allow mini-bus operators to choose between new and

achievement)   second-hand mini-buses. Reimbursement rate is 100% for loans to mini-bus
               operators.




                                              viii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived              DO                     IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
 1    06/28/2000      Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory              0.00
 2    12/21/2000         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  0.00
 3    02/07/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  0.00
 4    10/30/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  0.36
 5    03/28/2002         Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 2.18
 6    04/30/2002         Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 2.18
 7    12/12/2002       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 2.31
 8    05/30/2003       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 2.31
 9    06/27/2003       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 2.31
10    12/01/2003       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 3.05
11    06/02/2004       Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                  4.22
12    11/24/2004       Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                  7.47
13    04/25/2005       Unsatisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory         12.11
14    06/30/2005   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                18.58
15    12/21/2005   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                29.12
16    06/22/2006   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                37.98
17    12/22/2006   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                49.06
18    06/22/2007   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                57.96
19    10/29/2007   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                64.16

20    04/29/2008   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately
                                             Unsatisfactory                68.87

21    09/29/2008         Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                73.28



H. Restructuring
Not Applicable




                                         ix

I. Disbursement Profile




                           x

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

1.      Crisis Level Traffic Congestion, Pollution, and Accidents in Dakar. At
appraisal in early 2000, the Greater Dakar transport system was marked by severe traffic
congestion and high levels of pollution and road accidents. The main causes were lack of
investments in road infrastructure in the face of rapid population growth (4 percent
annually), very high increase in the number of vehicles (21 percent annually) and
informal vendors encroaching on roads, railways, and sidewalks. Congestion was
particularly bad in the narrow Pikine-Guediawaye transit corridor, which connects Dakar
city, the port, and the main railway terminal with suburban areas and the rest of the
country.

2.      It was estimated at appraisal that 16,850 hours per day were lost in traffic on
many of the most critical road sections in Dakar and that the commercial speed of public
transport vehicles had been reduced to 10-20 kilometers per hour. Pollution from vehicles
caused an estimated one third of all air pollution in the city and was further exacerbated
by the fact that up to 55 percent of vehicles were more than 15 years old. The effect on
respiratory diseases was evident: Dakar had an annual average of 25,150 cases of
respiratory related sickness (excluding tuberculosis) representing 5.4 percent of the area's
total sickness incidence. Persons living in congested areas such as bus and taxi stations,
markets, schools, or near heavily traveled roadways were found at high risk.

3.      In 1997, almost 2,500 people were injured in traffic accidents brought on by the
poor state of maintenance of vehicles, including public transport. Moreover, there was no
separation between fast and slow moving traffic (including along the suburban railway
through the densely populated Pikine-Guediawaye transit corridor) and sidewalks were in
disrepair or occupied by vendors, who also often shared the railway tracks and right-of-
way with the trains.

4.      At appraisal, these problems substantially affected the productivity and efficiency
of the national economy. It was estimated that reducing Dakar's traffic congestion by 10
percent would result in an increase of the efficiency of the urban transport system valued
at US$5.4 billion annually.

5.      The Government's Urban Transport Policy was adopted in September 1996,
providing a framework for rehabilitating the urban transport sector through a
comprehensive approach, which would address institutional, regulatory, financial,
managerial, and social aspects of the crisis.

6.      Bank Support for the Urban Transport Policy. In early 1997, at the request of
the Government of Senegal, the Bank agreed to support the Urban Transport Policy
through a Transport Reform and Capacity Building Technical Assistance Project. At
closing in 2001, the technical assistance (TA) project had achieved minor improvements
in the institutional and regulatory framework, coordination between national and local


                                             1

government and the private sector, involving stakeholders in decision-making, and
developing road safety action plans and improving traffic management. However, the
scope of the TA was not commensurate with the scale of the problems and the
Government and the Bank agreed that the severity of the situation warranted the
preparation of a free-standing Urban Mobility Improvement Program (Programme
d'Amélioration de la Mobilite Urbaine - PAMU).

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      The Project Development Objective was to improve the safety, efficiency, and
environmental quality of urban mobility in the Dakar metropolitan area and road safety in
the Thiès and Kaolack areas. Special attention was to be paid to improving mobility for
the urban poor by: (i) promoting public transport services, and (ii) ensuring the safe
movement of pedestrians and road users.

8.      The key performance indicators were:

        (i)    Reduction in traffic congestion and travel time for commuters;
        (ii)   Increases in market shares of public transport and percentages of customer
               satisfaction with services;
        (iii)  Reduction in relative level of emissions generated by motorized vehicles;
        (iv)   Reduction in the number of fatalities caused by traffic accidents along the
               project's main road corridors; and
        (v)    Decrease in the costs of externalities generated by motorized transport as a
               percentage of GDP.

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
        Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised.

1.4     Main Benefits and Target Population

9.      Beneficiaries and benefits. The project aimed at improving the safe mobility and
immediate environment of the urban poor, as those most affected by the persistent urban
transport crisis in Dakar and mostly relying on collective transport. Increasing
accessibility to public transport services to people living in remote locations from
downtown Dakar was going to benefit the poor segments of the population.

10.     Other Project Benefits. The society at large would benefit from the economic,
social, and environmental benefits of the project through: (i) reduced vehicle operating
costs and travel time; (iii) reduced air pollution; (ii) improved pedestrian safety in the
Dakar metropolitan area; (iv) improved value-for-money for public spending on roads;
and (v) increased employment opportunities in the mass transport industry (mini-buses ­
CR (Car Rapides)). The overall economic productivity and the quality of life were
expected to improve in the Dakar metropolitan area.




                                             2

1.5     Original Components

11.     Part A: Road Infrastructure, Road Safety, and Traffic Management. (i)
Rehabilitation and construction of road infrastructure primarily for the development of
public transport and pedestrian safety in the Dakar metropolitan area; (ii) design and
implementation of a road safety action plan for the Dakar, Thiès, and Kaolack areas
(including management of accident-prone junctions, improvement of user friendliness
and safety infrastructure, and implementation of awareness campaigns targeted at
transport users and operators); (iii) development and implementation of traffic
management strategies to improve key transit points for persons and goods, and
preparation of a comprehensive Urban Mobility Plan for the Dakar area and a plan to
increase public transport services' commercial speed; and (iv) technical and advisory
services.

12.     Part B: Pedestrians' Movement and Traffic Security along the Suburban
Railway Line. (i) Upgrading of suburban railway infrastructure by increasing existing
capacity, implementing major security works along the main transport corridors targeted
by the project and relocating the freight terminal outside downtown Dakar; and (ii)
technical and advisory services to the concessioning of the suburban railway services.

13.     Part C: Leasing: (i) Implementation of a leasing mechanism to accompany the
renovation of mini-buses (CR), including inter alia support for strengthening the technical
and management capacity of the operators; and (ii) facilitating access to credit for private
transit operators to enable them to renew their fleet, and acquisition, with a view to
leasing, by the Urban Transport Financing Group (Association de Financement des
Transports Urbains - AFTU) of vehicles that meet safety and emissions standards.

14.     Part D: Urban Air Quality Management. Carrying out of a program of actions
aimed at improving air quality in the Dakar metropolitan area including: (i) construction
of automobile monitoring centers; (ii) establishment of an observatory to track urban
pollution; (iii) support for the introduction and supervision of an urban air quality action
plan; and (iv) instituting awareness campaigns and consultations with road users and the
transport industry.

15.     Part E: Capacity-Building and Institutional Strengthening. (i) Technical
advisory services and training to strengthen sectoral capacity with regard to air pollution,
road safety, inter-modal policy and promotion of mass transport, urban planning, and
tools and techniques for evaluating performance; (ii) carrying out ad-hoc studies and
assessments consistent with the evolving context, as well as feasibility studies to prepare
the second phase of the program; and (iii) carrying out institutional reform of the sector
and support to the Executive Council for Urban Transport in Dakar (Conseil Exécutif des
Transports Urbains de Dakar - CETUD in its capacity as project executing agency and
regulatory authority for urban transport.

1.6     Revised Components

The components were not revised.



                                              3

1.7      Other significant changes

16.      Extensions of the Closing Date. The Credit closing date was extended three
times. At the third extension, approved on November 21, 2007, the original closing date
of December 31, 2004 was extended to September 30, 2008. The extensions were
necessary to make up for delays with (i) the lengthy process of restructuring of CETUD
initiated in 2000; (ii) works on the urban railway line and the air quality component; and
(iii) the delivery of vehicles under the lease component.

17.      Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement. Part B of the project was
to be implemented by the National Railroad Company (Société Nationale des Chemins de
Fer du Senegal - SNCS). In 2003, the Government decided to privatize the SNCS and the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended in October 2004 to enable the new
operator, TRANSRAIL, to manage this component.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18.      Surveys and studies carried out under the Urban Transport and Capacity Building
TA project were used to prepare the PAMU. CETUD, working with stakeholders and the
Bank: (i) identified the congestion bottlenecks and accident hot-spots; (ii) determined the
improvements necessary to integrate the suburban railway line with other mass-transit
systems; (iii) designed the lease scheme for the renewal of the CR fleet; and (iv) prepared
the measures to manage traffic and air quality. These proposals were approved, in
principle, by the CETUD assembly (government, local authorities, private sector) and
thus had wide support among stakeholders. The regional experiences from the sub-
Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSTAP) were used as to select appropriate
technical solutions based on simple technology.

19.      The PAMU was designed to address the crisis in the urban transport sector in
Dakar in a comprehensive manner. During preparation, the Government and the Bank
agreed that, in view of the urgent needs and the incomplete technical readiness of some
investments, the PAMU should be designed as the first phase of a two-phase Adaptable
Program Loan (APL). The indicative cost was US$103 million, of which the Bank was to
finance about 68 percent. The rest would be financed by the French Development Agency
(Agence Française de Développement - AFD), the Nordic Development Fund (NDF), the
Government, and others (municipalities and transport operators). The second phase of the
APL, estimated to cost US$31.4 million, was to be implemented if specific triggers
related to satisfactory implementation of activities under the first phase were met.


20.      Quality-at-entry is rated unsatisfactory as preparation was not sufficiently
advanced in relation to procurement and financing of maintenance arrangements. The
preparation had a number of shortcomings in the analysis of the role, capacity, and
mandate of CETUD to manage a project of this scale. These issues were not addressed in
the design as a result. This was highlighted by the Quality Assurance Group in the


                                               4

October 2002 Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) report. Further, the CR/mini-
bus operators were not ready to participate in the leasing scheme. The involvement of
several donors and the resulting complications for project management contributed to
increasing the complexity of the project. This issue was also not sufficiently addressed.
As a result, the project was not ready for implementation at Board approval.

2.2     Implementation

21.     Implementation of the PAMU went through three phases. Implementation was
very slow from effectiveness to January 2004 at the mid-term review (MTR), due to
delays in: establishment of project management capacity for CETUD, effectiveness of the
NDF agreement and fine-tuning the CRs leasing scheme. Project implementation
improved significantly after the MTR when most of the results were achieved. Bank
supervision teams, faced with very low initial disbursement, worked with CETUD to
implement road works, get the air quality component on track, and mobilize CR operators.
Unfortunately, implementation went back to a standstill after 2007 due to lack of
counterpart funds which prevented the completion of the remaining civil works including
the suburban railway line.

22.     Delays with assuring CETUD's project management capacity. CETUD had
only three technical staff comprising the secretariat when it was made responsible for
implementing the PAMU. The new Government, elected in May 2000, decided to
restructure CETUD and this decision delayed the recruitment of project implementation
staff. A new President and Director General were finally appointed in January 2002, but
delays in recruiting the technical and financial staff pushed back the launching of the road
works until late 2003 and limited CETUD's role in its efforts to privatize the national
railway and the Dakar bus company (SOTRAC). This in turn delayed upgrading work on
the suburban railway line. The selection of the Autonomous Road Works Agency
(Agence Autonome des Travaux Routiers - AATR) and Public Works Executing Agency
(Agence pour l'Exécution de Travaux d'Intérêt Public - AGETIP) to oversee procurement
of works and goods under the road component was acceptable to the Bank, but took until
2003 to be operational.

23.     Delays with the NDF-financed air quality activities.            Although the NDF
agreement was signed in December 2002, it was not until January 2004 that the
Government produced a legal opinion to enable effectiveness of this agreement and the
launch of the air quality activities. Moreover, securing the sites for the automobile
monitoring centers took until 2008 and procurement of equipment for the air quality
laboratory, initially restricted to Nordic countries, took almost two years to complete.
Because of all these delays, it was decided to scale down proposed activities from three
monitoring centers to one, and to drop all five air quality measuring stations and keeping
only the central laboratory.

24.     Delays with the participation of the CR operators in the leasing scheme.
Meetings to mobilize the independent CR/mini-bus operators started in 1999 under the
TA project and continued to take place in the early years of PAMU. In addition, the
registration of operators into Economic Interest Groups (Groupement d'Intérêt


                                             5

Economique - GIE) which started early on in the project took longer than anticipated
because of the informal nature of the CR operators and their lack of collateral which held
up procurement of mini-buses since operators were unable to provide the initial deposits
and commercial banks declined to lend funds to these operators. These deposits were
intended to confirm operators' commitment and be part of the financial mechanism to
guarantee against operators defaulting on their repayments. The leasing mechanism took
off in November 2003 when the first contract for new mini-buses was signed. The leasing
mechanism operated at full speed after May 2005 when the GIEs created their own
micro-finance institution.

25.      Eventual Acceleration of Activities but Project Closure with Unfinished
Works.      Due to tighter supervision and Government engagement, progress with
implementation accelerated after the MTR. By completion (September 30, 2008): (i)
most of the improvement works in the roads and intersections in Dakar was completed;
(ii) 505 new mini-buses were in operation under the leasing scheme; (iii) the laboratory
for air quality was appropriately staffed and had started initial operations; and (iv) 90
percent of the upgrading works on the suburban railway line were completed.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.      Design. The key performance indicators had been selected with the intent to
show progress towards achieving the PDO of improving urban mobility. Specifically,
improvements in the quality and use of public transport would be measured by: (i)
increased commercial speed of public transport; (ii) reduction in time lost in traffic; (iii)
increase in the number of passengers using public transport; (iv) decrease in pollutant
emissions; and (v) reduction in accidents. Other indicators included improvements in the
sector's financial capacity and decrease in the costs of externalities.

27.      However, the selected indicators did not provide a good indication of achievement
of the PDO and they were overly complex and difficult to measure. In addition, the
targets were beyond reach. For instance, it was unrealistic to expect that replacement of
part of the fleet of old CRs and suburban railway's rolling stock would reduce the
emission of pollutants by one percent for Dakar as a whole. Similarly, reductions in time-
lost-in-traffic, increases in commercial speed of public transport vehicles and in the
ridership on public transport, and cost of externalities (the aggregate of the individual
indicators), were not only difficult to measure, but unlikely to be achieved in the face of
the continuous rapid increase in the number of vehicles.

28.      Implementation. The indicator targets were based on a static environment and
should have been updated, since they did not take into account e.g. the increase in total
traffic, which was beyond control of the project. It was envisaged to change the indicators
to make them more relevant to the PDO after the MTR but the operation did not
materialize. While outcome indicators of the project could not be met partially due to
overly optimistic targets, it was clear when visiting Dakar that the project has made
strides in improving mobility in the city although this could not be captured by the
current indicators.




                                             6

29.     Utilization. Continuous measurement of the project indicators was not possible
due to the lack of specification of baseline methodology, the level of data gathering
involved and the cost of monitoring. As a result, the five indicator measurements carried
out (the last time in May/June 2008, just before the closing date of the project) did not
allow taking the appropriate corrective measures. These issues prevented the use of
indicators for project management and operational purposes.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

30.     Safeguard Compliance. The project complied with Bank safeguard policies.
OP4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement was triggered mostly due to civil works on the
suburban railway component, necessitating the resettlement of informal shops and
vendors along the right-of-way of the railway. Supervision reports confirmed that about
80 people affected by the road component were resettled in compliance with Bank
safeguard policies. Another resettlement operation for the PTB at Thiaroye was
adequately prepared, but was put on hold due to lack of counterpart funds needed to
implement the resettlement action plan. The project did not have major negative
environmental impacts and environmental related clauses were systematically included in
work contracts. Finally, safeguard policies concerning Cultural Heritage (OP 4.11) were
complied with when the railway station in Rufisque ­a cultural monument from the
colonial period­ was rehabilitated.

31.     Fiduciary Compliance. The project complied with Bank fiduciary safeguards in
spite of problems with the quality of project management. At appraisal, the financial
management, procurement, and reporting capacity of CETUD were in need of
strengthening. A six-month action plan was put together to address the deficiencies
which remain difficult to correct despite efforts from Bank supervision teams. However,
financial management and post procurement reviews did not reveal any irregularities.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

32.     Post-completion operation remains at risk. Firstly, municipalities and the
Government are responsible for maintenance and periodic cleaning of roads and
sidewalks, but lack the technical capacity and funds to do so. The Road fund which was
intended to finance urban road maintenance has not been set up by the Government.
Secondly, CETUD's capacity in the area of coordination and sector financing needs to be
further reinforced. CETUD has prepared a first version of the Urban Mobility Plan for the
Dakar area and uses the plan to monitor mobility and identify remaining problems.
Thirdly, uncompleted works due to counterpart funding issues, including upgrading the
suburban railway, closing the right-of-way wall, the pedestrian and vehicular overpasses,
and access roads to the freight and road/rail feeder stations need to be completed to
deliver the full project benefits to the population and it is not clear if resources will be
made available considering the current strained fiscal situation of the country.

33.     The main triggers for the second phase of the APL are not fully met, since
appropriate financing for maintenance is not available and CETUD's role as a regulator is
not yet firmly established.


                                             7

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

34.     Objective. The objective of the PAMU remains highly relevant in light of the
continued pressure on transport infrastructure in Dakar. Moreover, urban/rural synergies
and growth/wealth creation pillars of the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
makes urban mobility improvement in Dakar more relevant than ever.

35.     Project Design. The project was not ready for implementation. PAMU's design
was appropriate in that it targeted the major physical and institutional shortcomings of the
urban transport system and aimed to improve air quality management and institutional
capacity. However, the design did not sufficiently take into account the existing
organizational weaknesses and the need to build on dedicated solutions to these problems.
The risk analysis was a major shortcoming of the project, the M&E framework was not
able to provide useful information for project management purposes, and the client was
not fully committed to the project as proved by the long delay in the air quality study and
the lack of actions to address weak capacity in CETUD.

36.     Implementation.        Some of the shortcomings were addressed during
implementation, but despite concerted efforts, not all problems could be overcome. The
Government and supervision missions initially failed to resolve the issues with CETUD's
management capacity, the delayed air quality activities, and the leasing scheme in a
timely manner until the new TTL took over at the MTR. Lack of counterpart funding led
to the closure of the project before the completion of works.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

37.     Achievement of the PDO. The PDO to improve the safety, efficiency, and
environmental quality of urban mobility in the Dakar metropolitan area and road safety in
the Thiès and Kaolack areas has been partially achieved.

38.     Analysis of achievement of each of the PDO's major objectives - safety,
efficiency, and environmental quality ­ indicates that while safety objectives were met,
those for efficiency and environmental quality were not fully realized.

39.     Safety. The PDO indicator relating to safety (reduced accidents) was met. Injuries
per 1,000 vehicles dropped from 61 in 2000 to 23 in 2008 and that of death from 2.1 to
0.6 per 1,000 vehicles. Pedestrian crossings installed with traffic lights at busy
intersections and new overpasses now provide safe crossings for pedestrians. In addition,
sidewalks have been constructed, repaired or widened, and road median dividers and
speed bumps have been installed at schools, hospitals, and other locations where people
congregate. However, lack of counterpart funds halted work on some of the overpasses
which cannot be used and access to several train stations remains inadequate,
unregulated, and unsecured as a result.

40.     Traffic management has improved with the creation of the traffic police corps (not
initially planned under the PAMU). The 362 agents now employed in metropolitan Dakar


                                              8

to manage traffic have received equipment and training financed under the PAMU. The
corps daily deployment contributes both to improved safety as well as more efficient flow
of traffic.

41.     Efficiency.    Overall efficiency strongly decreased from 2000 to 2004, with
increased traffic congestion and delays in investment, but improved slightly after 2004.
Three key performance indicators (KPIs) related to the efficiency of transport include
(see project datasheet for details): (i) time-lost-in-traffic actually increased by 30 percent
compared to a targeted reduction by 5 percent; (ii) the market share of public transport
declined by 13.5 percent against a targeted 5 percent increase; and (iii) the cost of
externalities shows a 32 percent increase. It is worth mentioning measuring the cost of
externalities was difficult to assess accurately, as the methodology used to measure this
indicator at appraisal was not available. As a result, a new methodology was developed at
the time of the MTR to measure the cost of time lost in traffic as a proxy of congestion.
On that basis, the economic analysis demonstrates that cost of time lost in congestion
alone was stable from CFAF 41.4 billion in 2000 (base 1998) to CFAF 36-42.9 billion in
2008. The lack of achievement of the first two indicators can be attributed in part to the
overall increase in vehicle traffic, but the M&E framework does not allow us to attribute
specific results to the project interventions.

42.     The leasing scheme has achieved the objective of partly renewing the aging fleet
of CRs, and improving operations and passenger comfort. This scheme - a first in the
Africa Region - replaced 505 old CRs with new, more efficient ones (about one-fifth of
the mini-bus fleet). Acquisition of these new mini-buses has dramatically changed the
face of the urban transport industry in Dakar. CR routes and stops have been formalized
and passengers are satisfied with the quality of transport services (see Annex 5). A study
of the leasing scheme reports that although the fares for CRs formally increased by 10
percent in 2005, the services of the new CRs are cheaper for the traveler in actual terms,
as the practice of charging higher unofficial fares has stopped. As a result of the new
business model implemented for the new vehicles, revenues for owners have increased
while fare increases have been kept to a minimum through negotiations with CETUD.
Studies show that the leasing scheme is sustainable and the reimbursement rate is 100
percent.

43.     Environmental Quality. The KPI related to environmental quality was not
achieved, since air pollution increased rather than declined. However, the KPI could not
fully measure progress made by the project as the end target did not take into account the
overall dramatic increase in vehicle-kilometers in the city. Initial steps have been taken to
arrive at a better management of environmental quality with the establishment and
staffing of the air quality laboratory and deployment of a mobile measuring vehicle. The
air quality management system needs to be developed and staff trained in use of
equipment. The anticipated reduction in pollution from the mines and cement factory
through the use of new and sealed TRANSRAIL freight cars has also not been achieved.
Dust and leaks from freight trains pollute the air and the tracks used by the suburban
railway. However, CETUD has managed the introduction of unleaded gasoline in




                                               9

Senegal supported by the Bank's Clean Air Initiative, which has eliminated lead pollution
from traffic.

3.3     Efficiency

44.     Cost-Benefit at appraisal and closing. The economic analysis at appraisal
examined the cost-benefit of "without project" and "with project" for: (i) the road
rehabilitation; (ii) the leasing scheme; and (iii) the pedestrian and traffic safety along the
suburban railway.

45.     The Economic Rate of Return (ERR). At appraisal, the ERR of the road
rehabilitation component was estimated at 37 percent. At closing, the ERR of the road
rehabilitation investments under PAMU (vehicle operating cost only) was equal to, or
greater than, 67 percent except in one US$800,000 investment in Petit Mbao where it was
only 9 percent (small portion with low traffic but high social impact).

46.     Benefits from reduced accidents. At appraisal, the reduction in deaths and
injuries to persons and damage to cars was estimated to have a Net Present Value (NPV)
of US$7.58 million. A full calculation of NPV was not done for the ICR. However, at
closing, the costs incurred from injuries and deaths between 1997 and 2007 were
estimated to have decreased by 26.8 percent, or almost three times the estimate of 10
percent used at appraisal.

47.     Benefits from Reduced Congestion. Based on the estimate at appraisal that one
million hours were lost in traffic as a result of congested roads, the benefits from
reducing the average travel time in Dakar by five percent resulted in a NPV of US$39.6
million. The cost of congestion was estimated at CFAF108 billion in 1998. At closing, a
study concluded that the cost of congestion was estimated to CFAF142.9 million in 2008.
Although this represents an increase of 32.3 percent, the result at closing cannot be
compared to the appraisal estimate as the parameters, especially for health and
environmental externalities, were not specified.

48.     Leasing Scheme. A study of the leasing scheme reports that the services of the
new CRs are cheaper than the ones of the old CRs for most journeys as practices of short-
tripping and use of unofficial fare stages stopped. In the same time, revenues for owners
have increased while fares have remained affordable for commuters as a result of the
updated business model implemented for the new vehicles. Studies show that the leasing
scheme is sustainable and the reimbursement rate is 100 percent.

49.     Efficiency loss from incomplete works. Although the Suburban Train (Petit
Train de Banlieue ­ PTB) received new trains and locomotives under PAMU, the
incomplete work on the third track and the poor condition of the infrastructure means that
the train carries only about a 18,000 passengers a day compared to its potential of 75,000
passengers daily.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


                                             10

50.     The outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory, primarily because the project
could not achieve targets for three out of five outcome indicators. Target indicators were
not met for air quality, share of public transport and reduction in time lost in traffic, while
the target was met for safety. The indicator related to the cost of externalities was
difficult to assess accurately due to methodological problems. So while progress has been
achieved under the project in resolving part of the severe traffic congestion in greater
Dakar, which at the time of appraisal had reached crisis proportions, outcomes are not
commensurate with expectations at appraisal. Further, the capacity of CETUD remains
problematic and funding for maintenance of roads is not available, jeopardizing project
achievements. This moderately unsatisfactory rating is further substantiated by the
evaluation of project relevance and efficiency. Although the project objective continues
to be highly relevant, the unsatisfactory quality at entry and notably efficiency losses due
to incomplete works pull the rating downwards.

3.5     Overarching themes, other outcomes and impacts

(a)     Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development

51.     Better public transport for the informal sector. Many rural-urban migrants
initially stake out an economic existence in the rapidly expanding informal markets and
shops along the railway or near the rail and bus stations. Public transport facilitates
access to these markets and shops, which provide employment to the poor segments of
the urban population.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

52.     Stakeholder participation in urban transport. CETUD's tripartite plenary has
been instrumental in helping renew the fleet of CR, and has improved coordination
among the many agencies active in the transport sector in Dakar including DDD, PTB,
the municipalities and the mini-buses' operators. This arrangement has made it possible
to rationalize bus routes, achieve some level of integration between rail and road
commuter transport, and keep public transport affordable.

(c)     Other unintended outcomes and impacts (positive or negative)

53.     In parallel with the PAMU, the Government has financed additional mobility
improvements, including major civil works to rehabilitate and expand the primary road
network (North highway, Airport access highway and Corniche) and launched the
construction of the region's first six-lane toll highway crossing the narrow Pikine-
Guediawaye corridor. The primary network improvements financed by the Government
has enhanced the impact of PAMU-funded overpasses and the rail/road feeder stations
because these facilities were connected to the six-lane highway.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
NA




                                              11

4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
(Rating: Substantial)

54.      Financial and Economic Risks.             Counterpart funding and financing of
maintenance of urban infrastructure, initially planned through the Development Fund for
Urban Transport (Fonds de Développement des Transports Urbains - FDTU) was not
available.    The Government's inability to pay counterpart funds starting in 2007 and
continuing in 2008, as well as the failure of most municipalities and operators to make
their contribution to the FDTU, puts the outcomes of PAMU at a significant risk. The
urban infrastructure constructed and or rehabilitated is showing early signs of degradation
in some locations for lack of maintenance. Lack of repair and maintenance of roads,
traffic lights, and protective barriers at pedestrian crossings are lessening the recent gains
in mobility and safety. The current level of financing of the FDTU is insufficient to fund
infrastructure maintenance and implementation of the formal agreement to fund urban
road maintenance from the second generation road fund has yet to take place.

5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1      Bank Performance

(a)      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (Rating: Unsatisfactory)

55.      Problems with Readiness and QAE. Preparation of the project was not totally
ready at the time of appraisal. However, the Bank approved the project in May 2000.
Procurement was not sufficiently advanced, financial management capacity was
inadequately assessed and mitigation measures were not in place, and arrangements for
the leasing scheme and the air quality management component were not strong enough.
There were real gaps in readiness and as a result effectiveness was delayed until May
2001.

(b)      Quality of Supervision (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)

56.      Ineffective Initial Supervision. Supervision missions initially did little to get
implementation going. The missions did not effectively address CETUD's inadequate
project management capacity in the fiduciary and sector coordination areas, nor did they
effectively help the CR operators find ways to meet the conditions of the proposed
leasing scheme. The Government's proposals for restructuring CETUD and for financing
the new bus company, Dakar Dem Dikk (DDD), led to discussions to restructure the
project in late 2002, due to concerns with the proposed arrangements. However, this was
not done, as no agreement could be reached with the Government. While the road
component took off only after 2003, supervision missions in the first years of project
implementation did little to speed up implementation and the reasons for such lack of
proactivity from the Bank remain unclear.

57.      Significant improvements in Supervision. Even efforts by management had
little effect until the replacement of the first TTL and the organization of the well-



                                              12

prepared MTR. The new TTL, appointed in November 2003, got the supervision team to
address outstanding issues with the leasing scheme, the air quality component, and
CETUD's capacity. The bulk of implementation took place after 2004 when fiduciary
capacity and compliance improved and supervision missions included safeguard
specialists. Supervision was satisfactory from 2004 till closing in 2008.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
        Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

58.     Uneven Bank Performance. The Bank did not diligently appraise the project to
ensure it was ready and of satisfactory quality. Furthermore, the first few years of
supervision were largely ineffective in solving implementation problems with the
majority of the components. It is worth noting that the appointment of a new Government
following the 2000 general elections at the time of effectiveness and several changes in
some of the transport and institutional policies were responsible for implementation
delays. The Bank's performance was satisfactory after the MTR when more than 90
percent of the project was implemented. The issue of counterpart funding begun during
the second half of 2007 but became a key structural issue in 2008. Considering the fiscal
position of the country, the Bank decided not to grant another extension requested by the
Government to complete the project which closed in September 2008.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance
        Rating Unsatisfactory

59.     Uneven Borrower Performance. Preparation of the PAMU by the Government
was not complete and the capacity of CETUD as the implementing agency was
inadequate. Just when the PAMU was approved in 2000, the new Government began
formulating its policies and structuring its institutions in the sector. CETUD underwent
too many changes. Delays in recruitment of project management and fiduciary staff
subsequently delayed project implementation. The Government was, however, committed
to resolving the urban mobility crisis in Dakar by financing the construction of a number
of major infrastructure works which led to major improvements in urban mobility in
Dakar. The Ministry of Equipment and Transport was very helpful to get implementation
off the ground and provided assistance to CETUD. However, the Government's inability
to provide counterpart funds left PAMU's supported works program incomplete at
closing.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
        Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.     CETUD had gained experience with the implementation of the TA project, but
was in need of strengthening when it was given the responsibility of implementing the
PAMU. The new Government's insistence on restructuring CETUD was beyond the
agency's control. Delays with staff recruitment was also mostly beyond CETUD control.
CETUD's management was slow to address the agency's weak fiduciary capacity and it


                                             13

took more time than needed for CETUD to focus on its core planning and coordinating
functions. Procurement, financial management, and reporting remained weak until well
into 2004 (the original closing date). However, CETUD's management did improve after
MTR, its organizational chart was adjusted to its core functions and staff focused more
on urban mobility issues. A good job was accomplished on the urban infrastructure
upgrading work, the leasing scheme, and support to the creation of the traffic police.
CETUD has been less effective in assisting with efforts to privatize the former bus
company SOTRAC and PTB. It has also been less effective in ensuring maintenance and
in addressing the many issues associated with the upgrading and integration of the
suburban railway line ­ a task made difficult by the poor performance of TRANSRAIL.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
        Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

61.     The Borrower almost achieved full implementation of PAMU with resulting
improvements in urban mobility, safety, and air quality. It used the Credit for the
intended purposes, and allocated until 2007 counterpart funds for the project. The
Borrower's commitment to urban mobility went beyond the PDO of PAMU when it
made substantial additional investments to improve urban mobility. Although some of the
initial delays with implementation were a normal consequence of the review of policies
and institutions by a new Government, the length of the delay and the lingering problems
associated with CETUD took too long to be resolved and affected negatively the project.
The lack of counterpart funds, linked to the global financial crisis, was a major set-back
to the project and has to be attributed to the Government.

6.      Lessons Learned

62.     The challenging urban mobility needs of rapidly developing urban centers in
SSA require the establishment of well-staffed and well-managed lead agency to
coordinate the activities of multiple stakeholders, including the central Government.
In sprawling urban centers experiencing rapid growth of their population and increased
poverty, transport needs and management of transport issues can be very challenging in
the face of weak capacity at the central and local government levels and a mushrooming
informal transport sector. Fleets of old transport vehicles compounded with lack of
investment in the road infrastructure are causes of poor quality of transport services,
congestion, increased road accidents and poor safety of the road users. Having a
dedicated agency able to coordinate the needs of all the stakeholders in order to improve
urban mobility is a critical step in the right direction for coordinating urban transport
management, for policy formulation and implementation, and for consensus building
among actors.

63.     Indicators that are simple and easy to measure are critical for reviewing
changes in urban mobility and for crafting effective responses to the urban
transport crisis in SSA. PAMU's key performance indicators were innovative and far-
reaching as they included monitoring of congestion, use of public transport, levels of
pollution, incidence of accidents and cost of externalities. But the indicators were sourced



                                              14

from several different studies, the methods and calculations of values were complicated
and, in some cases, such as the cost of externalities, were based on untested assumptions.
Other variables related to mobility could not be captured by the indicators, such as major
changes in the primary road network or in traffic management regulations. Baseline
values were established at appraisal and agreed upon, but few if any agencies could
actually monitor the indicators. Monitoring over the life of the project became difficult
and the findings were contested by transport specialists. This experience suggests that it
is better to select simpler, measurable indicators that have proven to reflect the relevant
results to be monitored. The Bank has financed a large number of urban projects and it
should be possible to find effective indicators in these projects. Capturing these indicators
and making them available to staff will improve preparation and supervision of new
projects in urban mobility, in particular with regard to realistic targets and their
measurement.

64.     Innovative leasing schemes can address problems created by an aging vehicle
fleet of informal urban transport operators. PAMU took an innovative approach to get
informal transport operators to replace their old polluting vehicles with ones that are
newer, safer, and less polluting. The leasing scheme developed under the PAMU was
successful because it was designed with operators' input, provided strong TA programs
for operators and drivers, and included an operational restructuring of the CR network.
The Bank's leasing scheme achieved the much-needed replacement of about 20 percent
of the existing fleet. The experience has been analyzed in detail in the "Dakar Bus
Financing Study" including lessons and potential applications in the region. Notable in
the Dakar experience is the commitment from operators to sign-up, make payments, and
organize themselves in mutual benefit associations to spread risks.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

65.     The report prepared by the Borrower was received. A summary was prepared and
is attached in Annex 7. The quality of the preparation is deemed satisfactory, as well as
the implementation phase in spite of the lack of counterpart funds. Notwithstanding its
weaknesses, the project has globally responded to the expectations of the authorities.

(b) Cofinanciers

66.     AFD focused on the construction of Cyrnos and Malick Sy interchanges (est.
US$13.5 million grant). The works started in 2004 and faced important technical
difficulties linked to changes in project design and unexpected water and sewerage
networks on the sites. This had negative impact on the implementation schedule and the
final cost. However the positive impact of these investments is important on the quality
of life of the population and economic activity, especially in terms of: lower travel cost,
lower level of pollution, and improved safety, for both people and goods. The works
implemented under the Project will represent a sustainable contribution to the PDOs only
if the progress made under the Project in reorganizing the public transport system is
further developed, in particular with an integrated approach combining all modes.



                                             15

67.     NDF has suggested a number of changes to the write up in the paragraphs dealing
with the air quality component. These have been incorporated.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

68.     AFTU was created on April 3, 2001 within the framework of the PAMU and is
one of the beneficiaries of the Project. With the financing provided by IDA through the
Government, AFTU was able to set up the mechanism for the minibuses leasing scheme
as planned. Thanks to this achievement, 250 operators were able to replace 505 old Cars
Rapides for brand new vehicles, compliant with safety requirements and comfort of users.
The financing conditions, with a low interest rate and simplified guarantee requirements
(unlike the usual requirements from the formal banking system), are particularly well
received by the operators. AFTU greatly appreciates the operational support received
from stakeholders for better management, monitoring and impact of activities. AFTU
also strongly supports the efforts made by the Government and CETUD to further expand
the leasing scheme by using the reimbursements made under the current scheme to
finance additional minibuses.

69.     The new Road Safety Association (Nouvelle Prévention Routière du Sénégal,
NPRS) was created in 2002 to develop safety activities against car accidents. Close
cooperation between NPRS and CETUD was developed under the PAMU, with regard to
training of professional drivers linked to the new CRs, as well as various sensitization
actions in the regions of Dakar, Thiès and Kaolack. The NPRS thanks the CETUD for its
support and wishes that these very constructive actions will be further supported to
strengthen the positive impact witnessed on road safety in urban areas.




                                            16

                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                   Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)         Appraisal

CONSTRUCTION AND
REHABILITATION OF ROAD                  37.54              87.74           233%
INFRA.
TRAFFIC SAFETY ALONG
THE RAILWAYS                            18.60              22.22           119%

FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR
THE LEASING MECHANISM                   21.90              24.64           117%

URBAN AIR QUALITY
MANAGEMENT                                7.50               9.07          130%

CAPACITY BUILDING AND
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                     4.80             12.92           254%


            Total Baseline Cost         90.34             156.59           173%

Physical Contingencies                    8.40               0.00

Price Contingencies                       3.70               0.00
              Total Project Costs      102.44             156.59
Front-end fee PPF                         0.56               0.33          59%
               Total Financing         103.00             156.92           152%




(b) Financing (in USD Million equivalent)

                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                       (USD         (USD        Appraisal
                                     millions)     millions)
FRANCE: French Agency for
Development                            17.30        13.52         78%

International Development
Association (IDA)                      70.00        75.71        108%

Nordic Development Fund (NDF)           7.60        8.91         117%
FOREIGN SOURCES
(UNIDENTIFIED)                          4.50        0.00

Government of Senegal                   3.60        58.78




                                            17

                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Part A: Road Infrastructure, Road Safety                               Outputs
and Traffic Management:

1. Rehabilitation and construction of road        1. Approximately 27 km of roads have been
infrastructure, including drainage                upgraded, including resurfacing, installing or
improvements, primarily for the development       repairing drains, and widening of feeder roads.
of public transport and pedestrian safety in the  Work was completed in 2007/8.
Dakar metropolitan area.
2. Design and implementation of a road safety     2. Approximately 50 km of sidewalks have
action plan for the Dakar, Thiès, and Kaolack     been repaired or constructed. In addition,
areas, including inter alia: (i) management of    fences, footbridges, and pedestrian crossings
accident-prone junctions identified as traffic    have been installed to improve safety. Works
accident hot-spots; (ii) improvement of road      also included installing traffic lights and
infrastructure, inter alia, through construction  lighting of the major thoroughfares in Dakar.
of pedestrian sidewalks, pedestrian bridges       At places where people congregate, speed
over roads with heavy traffic, installation of    bumps, medians and other safety measures have
upright and surface signing, lighting, and        been installed to slow traffic and improve
markings, installation of speed-reducing          security. Safety awareness campaigns have
devices at busy locations such as schools and     been organized in schools and on the radio.
hospitals, protection of non-motorized traffic
through the construction of paths separated
from motorized traffic, construction of road
median dividers; and (iii) carrying out
awareness campaigns aimed at transport users
and operators about road safety and the
provision of training of traffic police.
3. Development and implementation of traffic      3. Several terminals for busses and mini-buses
management strategies to make better use of       have been upgraded and equipped with signs. A
existing facilities for movement of persons and   number of new stations have been installed in
goods including: (i) construction and             the outlying suburbs. Several rail way stations,
management support of terminals for mass          including the one at Rufisque, have been
transit vehicles and road-rail feeder stations at upgraded. Two railroad feeder stations have
selected urban locations; (ii) construction of    been constructed and equipped with parking
bus stop areas to enable mass transit vehicles to areas for taxies, and overpasses for vehicles and
load and unload passengers safely; (iii)          pedestrians. A dynamic version of the urban
construction of road terminals for mass transit   mobility plan for the Dakar area has been
vehicles at selected urban areas; (iv)            prepared by CETUD. The plan is being used to
construction of stations on the outskirts of      monitor traffic flows and pollution.
Dakar to alleviate downtown congestion from
interurban traffic and heavy vehicles; (v)
construction of taxi terminals and parking
facilities; (vi) preparation of an Urban Mobility
Plan for Dakar area (Plan de Déplacement dans
l'Agglomération de Dakar) for inter-modal
transport, urban planning, and housing,
including the purchase of mapping equipment;



                                                 18

and (vii) preparation of a plan to increase
public transport services commercial speed.
4. Provision of technical advisory services for  4. Studies have been undertaken to analyze
the implementation of engineering studies, and   traffic flows, vehicle speed, public transport
supervision works.                               fares, speed of public transport and other
                                                 vehicles on major roads, time-lost-in-traffic,
                                                 pollution, evolution of vehicular and pedestrian
                                                 traffic, and accidents.
Part B: Pedestrian Movement and Traffic                               Outputs
Security along the Suburban Railway Line:

1. Upgrading of suburban railway                 1. The following upgrading has been achieved:
infrastructure through, inter alia,: (i)         (i) the third track between Hann and Fass Mbao
construction of a third track between the        has been constructed; (ii) a wall or fence has
localities of Hann and Fass Mbao; (ii) fencing   been constructed on both sides of the rails
of the railway right-of-way between Cyrnos       between Dakar and Rufisque, a length of 24
and Fass Mbao (24 kilometers) as well as in      kilometers, as well as 13 footbridges; (iii) only
densely-populated areas such as Mbao and         one of the four overpasses has been built; only
Rufisque and construction of about 15            two of the most-trafficked railroad-level grade
footbridges; (iii) elimination of the most-      crossings have been repaired; (iv) the freight
trafficked railroad-level grade crossings        terminal has been transferred/constructed at Bel
through construction of four overpasses and      Air but can not be used because access roads
underpasses in Hann, Marché aux Poissons,        have not been built; (v) a few signaling systems
Thiaroye, and Rufisque, and the improvement      have been rehabilitated; (vi) the Dakar station is
of other level grade crossings between Dakar     no longer used for rail travel since June 2006 (it
and Rufisque; (iv) transfer of the freight       is to be converted into a cultural center); the
terminal from its present location in Dakar      station of Rufisque has been rehabilitated; and
center to a new location in Bel Air; (v)         (vii) studies have been undertaken and the work
rehabilitation of the signaling between Dakar    has been supervised.
and Rufisque; (vi) rehabilitation of the central
railway station of Dakar and the railway station
of Rufisque; and (vii) implementation of
studies, engineering, and supervision tasks
related to the activities described above.
2. Acquisition of technical advisory services    2. Studies for the concessions of the suburban
required for implementing the process of         railway line have been done. Concessioning was
concessioning of suburban railway services       postponed with Bank agreement to allow for a
including, pre-selection of potential strategic  full implementation of the upgrading program.
shareholders in the concession company,
preparation of Requests for Technical
Proposals, preparation of Requests for
Financial Proposals, evaluation of technical
and financial proposals, and supervision of the
implementation of the concession.                3. Technical and engineering advisory services
3. Provision of technical advisory services      have been provided.
including studies, engineering, and supervision
tasks in connection with the activities carried
out under 1 and 2 above.




                                                19

Part C: Leasing:                                                        Outputs

1. Implementation of a leasing mechanism          1. The leasing mechanism has been established,
necessary for the renovation of mass transit      CR operators have organized themselves in
vehicles (Car Rapides - CR), including inter      economic groups and they have established a
alia support to strengthen the technical and      savings and association to handle lease and
management capacity of the mass transit           insurance payments. About 17% of the CR fleet
vehicle operators and their professionalization.  is participating in the scheme.
2. Provision of financing to enable mass transit  2. The Credit has been used to finance the
private operators to have access to credit        procurement of 505 mini-buses. Operators
facility to renew their fleet, and acquisition by decided to lease only new vehicles. The
the Association de Financement (AF) of            reimbursement rate was 100 percent at closing.
approximately 300 new vehicles or 600
rehabilitated and refurbished vehicles which
meet safety and toxic emissions standards, for
leasing.

Part D: Urban Air Quality Management:                                   Outputs

Carrying out a program of actions aimed at        Action programs have been conducted to create
improving air quality in the Dakar metropolitan   awareness of pollution from traffic, including
area including: (i) construction of three         from unleaded gas, and of the associated health
automobile monitoring centers: the Diamniadio     issues: (i) only one automobile station at Ex-
pilot station, the Keur Massar station, and the   TPSOM is in the planning stage, the site has
Ex-TPSOM station; (ii) establishing an            been acquired; (ii) the observatory has been
observatory to track urban pollution; (iii)       established at the Ministry of the Environment;
support for the introduction and supervision of   (iii) the action plan has been prepared and
an urban air quality action plan including, but   unleaded gasoline has been introduced; (iv) a
not limited to, the gradual introduction of       few awareness campaigns have been conducted,
unleaded gasoline, support for decentralization   and consultations with road users and the
of some administrative centers to the outskirts   transport industry are being held as part of the
of the city, public awareness campaigns           CETUD's plenary meetings.
targeting users and sector specialists (e.g.,
automobile and fuel distributors), and a toxic
emissions control program for motorized
vehicles; and (iv) awareness campaigns and
consultation meetings with road users and the
transport industry, including the fuel dealers.

Part E: Capacity-Building and Institutional                             Outputs
Strengthening:

1. Strengthening of sectoral capacity with        1. The capacity for reducing air pollution has
regard to addressing air pollution, road safety,  been created with the establishment of the
inter-modal policy and promotion of mass          observatory. Capacity for addressing road
transport, urban planning, and tools and          safety, intermodal policy, and promotion of
techniques for evaluating performance and         mass transport has been created within CETUD.
supervising the project, through the provision    Technical assistance for the evaluation and
of technical advisory services and training.      supervision of project activities and programs
                                                  has been provided.



                                                 20

2. Carrying out ad-hoc studies and assessments   2. Studies on urban transport, pollution, urban
of urban transport, air pollution, urban         planning, and to some extent land use have been
planning, consistent with the Dakar's growth     carried out.
and land-use master plan, as well as feasibility
studies to prepare the second phase of the
program.
3. Carrying out of sectoral institutional reform 3. Studies analyzing the role and mandates of
and support CETUD in its capacity as project     CETUD and the government-owned bus and rail
executing agency and regulatory authority for    companies have been done.
urban transport in the Dakar metropolitan area.




                                                21

                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Etude D'Analyse de L'Impact Economique des projets D'Infrastructure Routières du
PAMU, Rapport Final Consultant: Ibrahima Ndiaye, Economiste des Transports,
Septembre 2008.

1.      Cost-Benefit at Appraisal and Closing. The economic analysis at appraisal
examined the cost-benefit of without and with the project investments for: (1) the road
rehabilitation ­ specifically: (a) the benefits of cost savings resulting from improvements
in the transport system; and (b) improvements in health from reduced pollution; (2) the
leasing scheme ­ specifically: (a) the value of improved passenger safety; and (b) the
actual payments by operators; and (3) the pedestrian and traffic safety along the suburban
railway.

2.      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR). At appraisal, the ERR of the road
rehabilitation component was estimated at 37 percent. At closing, the ERR of the urban
infrastructure investment under PAMU was equal to, or better than, 67 percent except in
one US$800,000 investment in Petit Mbao where it was only 9 percent (small portion
with low traffic but high social impact) according to the consultant's economic analysis
using the RED model).

3.      Benefits from Reduced Accidents.            At appraisal, 10 percent reduction in
accidents - specifically from reduced deaths and injuries - and 20 percent in damage to
cars from accidents was estimated to have a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$7.58million
at a 12 percent discount rate. A full calculation of NPV was not done for the ICR.
However, at closing, the costs incurred from injuries and deaths between 1997 and 2007
were estimated to have decreased by 26.8 percent, or almost 3 times the estimate of 10
percent used to calculate the NPV at appraisal, indicating a substantially higher actual
NPV.

4.      Benefits from Reduced Congestion. At appraisal it was estimated that people in
vehicles were losing 1.02 million hours as a result of congested roads. Based on this
estimate, the benefits from reducing the average travel time in Dakar by 5 percent - at
half the value of the average hourly wage of FCFA246 - resulted in a NPV of US$39.6
million at a 12 percent discount rate. At closing, the consultant estimated that the cost of
congestion had decreased from FCFA172.9 million in 2004 to FCFA142.9 million in
2008, but cost of congestion baseline data was estimated to CFAF108 million for 1998.
However, the benefit can not be compared to the appraisal estimate as it used different
parameters. Similarly, at appraisal the benefits from reduced vehicle operating cost, based
on reduced travel time, and maintenance and repair costs, assuming a one percent
reduction in operating costs at the end of the project (2004), produced an NPV of
US$21.65 million at a 12 percent discount rate. However, the consultants did not come
up with either a confirmation of this estimate or a new calculation of benefits from
reduced vehicle operation cost.




                                              22

5.      Other Improvements in Efficiency. Among the project objectives was to keep
public transport affordable for the poor. The affordability of public transport and the
ability to pay would be monitored. A study of the leasing scheme, financed by the Bank1
reports that although the fares for CRs increased by 10 percent in 2005, the services of
the new CRs, which issue color coded tickets identifying the stages the passenger paid for,
are cheaper for most journeys. Fares have been kept low through negotiations by CETUD
and range from FCFA100 minimum to FCFA240 maximum for a trip from the center to
Diamniado. Although the price of fuel has increased and the operators want a FCFA25
increase per stage, the Government has not yet agreed and CETUD is reviewing the rate
structure at this time.

6.      Technical and Social Efficiency Impacts. The project used only simple low-
technology measures such as traffic lights, markings, sidewalks, and food bridges based
on experiences with the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP). These
benefits have not been quantified. However, while the key performance indicators and
other assessments of these measures show a positive impact on mobility, the consultant's
economic analysis noted problems with the functioning of traffic lights, drainage on low-
lying roads, and posters on traffic signs. These problems, if not resolved, could lower the
gains in mobility. Municipalities responsible for maintenance do periodic cleaning of
roads and sidewalks, but seem to lack capacity or funds to maintain traffic lights and
signs. The project improved access to markets, schools, and places of employment, as
well as road safety for the poor, especially women. The evidence for this is the increase
in the share of public transportation especially by CRs and buses at affordable costs.

7.      Environmental Impact. The project had a positive impact on the environment.
Flora and fauna were protected during construction and afterwards. Trees, plants and
grasses have been planted along some of the strategic thoroughfares upgraded under the
project. Environmental standards had been included and enforced in works contracts. On
the other hand, pollution from the mines and cement factory has not been reduced by
using new and sealed freight cars, as dust and powder leaking from trains continue to
pollute the air and the tracks used by the suburban railway. Although some (illegal)
structures were taken down when the wall was built along the railway right-of-way and
for a few urban roads, resettlement was done in accordance with OP 4.12. Where justified,
people and businesses have been compensated. Finally, the rehabilitation of the Rufisque
station was done in accordance with the Bank's policy on Cultural Heritage (OP 4.11).




1Dakar Bus Financing Study, IBIS ­ Transport Consultants, Final Report, June 2008.




                                                23

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                       Title              Unit         Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Christian Diou          Sr. Municipal Engineer            AFTU2 TTL
Brahim Ould Abdelwedoud Municipal Engineer                AFTU2 Road component
Karim-Jacques Budin     Sr. Railway Consultant           MNSSD PTB component
Bourama Diaite          Sr Procurement Spec.              AFTPC Procurement
Saidou Diop             Financial Management Specialist  AFTFM Financial Management
Yvette Laure Djachechi  Sr. Social Development Specialist AFTCS Safeguards
Osval Rocha Andrade
Romao                   Financial Management Specialist  AFTFM Financial Management

Fily Sissoko            Sr Financial Management
                        Specialist                       LCSFM Financial Management

Claude P. Sorel         Consultant                        AFTU2 Leasing component



(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)

Lending

  FY99                                                                  76.10
  FY00                                      52                         175.56
  FY01                                                                   0.00
  FY02                                                                   0.00
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00
                         Total:             52                         251.66
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                   0.00
  FY00                                                                   0.00
  FY01                                      19                          71.22
  FY02                                      21                         154.76
  FY03                                      25                         129.26
  FY04                                      33                         133.88


                                          24

FY05               20     82.89
FY06               16     97.40
FY07               12     89.13
FY08               10     58.09
FY09                1      0.00
        Total:    157    816.63




                 25

                          Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


English Summary of two articles from the Newspaper "SOLEIL" of February 10, 2006
concerning the new mini-buses (Car Rapides) introduced under PAMU's Lease scheme.


A conductor interviewed by the reporter states that passengers now purchase tickets that
correspond to their trip and then sit down comfortably to be taken to their destination. He
also says that the drivers are no longer asked to bribe police since their permits and routes
are regularized and the police have no reason to stop the (new) CRs. He also says that the
use of tickets makes it easier to settle with the owner at the end of the day.

The driver says that the new CR is much easier to drive and that he gets less tired than
with the old CRs he used to drive.

A passenger expressed his satisfaction with the service of the new CRs, the use of tickets
and fixed routes and would like to see all old CRs replaced with the new ones. Another
passenger also says that the new CRs are more comfortable and faster.




                                               26

       Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
NA.




                             27

                         Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

I.      Project Description

1.      Political, Economic, Urban Mobility Status, Problems, and Institutional Context.
As part of the 1996 Letter of Sector Policy, the Government of Senegal initiated four
reforms ­ institutional and regulatory, financial, public transport reform, and human
resources development ­ to improve the transport system in Dakar. It created CETUD in
1997, co-financed the Transport Reform and Capacity Building Technical Assistance
Project, and beginning in 2001 - the Urban Mobility Improvement Project (PAMU).
PAMU was to be financed by the Government, the Bank, AFD, and NDF at an estimated
cost of US$ 157 million in two phases.

2.      Project Objectives. PAMU's long term objectives were: to improve the capacity
of transport institutions; the engagement of stakeholders and investments; to develop
private sector initiative; and improve the effectiveness of the government's services and
infrastructure. This was to be achieved by institutional, legal, financial, public transport
reforms, and human resources development. In the short-term, PAMU was to: improve
the safety, efficiency, and environmental quality of urban mobility in the Dakar, with
special attention paid to improving mobility for the urban poor, by promoting public
transport services and ensuring the safe movement of pedestrians.

3.      Project Components. PAMU's five components were: (i) Road Infrastructure,
Road Safety and Traffic Management; (ii) Pedestrians' Movement and Traffic Security
along the Suburban Railway Line; (iii) Leasing; (iv) Urban Air Quality Management; and
(v) Capacity-Building and Institutional Strengthening.

4.      Project Implementation. CETUD was made the implementing agency and signed
management contracts with AATR and AGETIP for the road works and with SNCF for
the suburban railway.

II.     Design, Implementation and Impact

5.      Assessment of the Project's Design. The design was satisfactory and addressed
the problems identified in sector policy. The cost of the infrastructure works and the
operating costs of CETUD were unfortunately underestimated and corrective measures
had to be taken ­ increased Government's financing ­ to achieve the results.

6.      Major Results Achieved by Component. The results of the infrastructure works
(Component 1) have been evaluated by an independent firm and the economic rate of
return has been calculated by a consultant. The consultant stated that overall mobility has
improved substantially because of improved use of road infrastructure, investments in
infrastructure, and the increased share and quality of public transport. Infrastructure
rehabilitation in the suburbs, for instance, in Keur Massar, has led to investments in
housing. Economic return on the 24 km of rehabilitated or constructed roads, 40



                                            28

intersections, and 50 km of sidewalks is high, ranging from 160 percent to 75 percent for
the five slices of work.

7.     Other results include the leasing of 505 new minibuses through the PAMU
scheme, despite initial delays. Operators and passengers are pleased with the
improvements in quality and services. Environmental regulations have been enhanced in
the transport sector, and the vehicle monitoring station, though delayed, is being planned.
Importantly, road safety has improved, substantially reducing accidents and death.
Returns would have been higher if the Government-financed works on the Baux
Maraichers railway station had been completed, rather than halted for lack of funds.
ADF financed two intersections and roads around the port. Unfortunately, traffic lights
are out at most intersections due to poor maintenance. Most of the work on the suburban
railway line ­ 12 km of rails, 24 km of enclosing wall, and 15 overpasses ­ has been done
but remains incomplete for lack of funds.

8.     Project Coordination and Management.          CETUD's project management was
globally satisfactory. It had to deal with cost increases and poor preparation but these
were addressed after the appointment of the Director for Administration and Finance.

9.     Project Impact on Sector Policy and Poverty Alleviation.          Traffic flow has
improved in Dakar as a result of the road works under PAMU. Sector policies have been
moved to center stage. Improvements in the public bus company equipment and services
have helped mobility.

III    Assessment of the Role of the Bank, the Government, and Executing
Agencies

       a.       Role of the Bank.     The Bank has financed about half of the cost and
       coordinated works financed by other donors. The change in task management at
       mid-term was positive and supervision in general has helped to address
       implementation constraints.

       b.       Role of the Government. The Government has financed counterpart funds,
       additional infrastructure works (US$30 million), the deposit for the leasing
       scheme, and contributed to FDTU for maintenance. It took additional efforts to
       improve mobility including ANOCI, PCRPE and the toll road Dakar-Diam Nadio.
       The difficulties at the Treasury halted the work on the suburban railway and led to
       stop the works under implementation byt CETUD.

IV     Economic and Financial Evaluation

10.    Project Costs. Project costs increased by 52 percent to US$157 million. The
Government contribution increased from US$26 million to US$59 million; IDA's
contribution grew from US$70 million to US$76 million; and that of ADF and FND grew
from US$7 million to US$22 million. The Government also undertook additional




                                            29

infrastructure works to improve mobility. Unfortunately it was unable to finance
counterpart funds in 2007 and 2008.

11.     Recurrent Costs. The works on the classified roads will be transferred to AATR;
works on local roads will be transferred to municipalities; and works on the suburban
railway will be transferred to PTB. These agencies will be responsible for recurrent
maintenance costs.

12.     Institutional Impact. CETUD's continued policy and coordinating role are in
danger as a result of the Government's financial crises.

V.      Sustainability of Project Outcomes.

13.     The results of PAMU need to be safeguarded by an adequate system of
maintenance, effective infrastructure management, and further training and improvements
in the transport cadre. To achieve this CETUD needs to be strengthened.

VI.     Conclusions

14.     The infrastructure and leasing scheme of PAMU have been achieved and led to
improvements in mobility. The air quality component has been delayed and that of the
suburban railway has not been completed. The Bank and the Government have done their
part even though the lack of counterpart funds led to the incompleteness of the project.
Notwithstanding that, the project has globally responded to the expectations of the
authorities.

15.     CETUD has undertaken five surveys by consultants to measure the Key
Performance Indicators. The findings of each survey have been compared to the 2000
baseline values and the 3rd-year and 4th-year targets, respectively, after project
effectiveness. The findings have been used to decide if and what further improvements
need to be undertaken.




                                           30

       Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

In addition to the text in 7(b), AFD provided the following statements:

"The PAMU is much more than a technical achievement. It concerns the daily life of all
inhabitants in Dakar and gives them a better access to the economic activities of the
capital city. The impact of the Project is likely to be important on the quality of life of
the population, with regard to reduced travel time, increased safety and lower pollution.

Beyond these effects, the expected impact is economic. The improvement of urban traffic
management will ease the transport of people and goods, and will support the
development of the economic activity as a whole.

Construction of the interchanges will contribute to meeting the PDOs only if various
other actions supporting the urban transport sector are implemented. Some of them were
supported under the Project. Further strengthening of public transport supply forms and
their transformation in a global network integrating all public transport modes are needed
for a better efficiency to benefit all users.

The Government confirmed, though the content of the approved Urban Transport Scheme,
that priority should be given to the development of a system which should answer
mobility needs of the population and answer to economic, social and environmental
challenges of an area sheltering one quarter of the total population of Senegal. Short term
decisions by the Government to substantiate this priority are needed, like the
confirmation of the location of the Dakar Railway Terminal in the center of the city to
fully integrate cultural functions and accessibility to the site."




                                             31

               Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1.  Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Report No. 17269-SE, December
    29,1997
2.  Development Credit Agreement (Urban Mobility Improvement Project)
    between Republic of Senegal and International Development Association,
    dated July 5, 2000, Credit Number 3354-SE
3.  Project Agreement (Urban Mobility Improvement Project), between
    International Development Association and Société Nationale de Chemin de
    Fer du Senegal, July 5, 2000, Credit Number 3354-SE
4.  Implementation Completion Report on a Credit in the Amount of US$6.6
    million (SDR4.9 million) to the Republic of Senegal for an Urban Transport
    Reform and Capacity Building Technical Assistance Project, December 14,
    2001, Urban and Water II, Country Department 14, Africa Region
5.  Quality of Supervision Report (QSA6)
6.  NDF Nordic Development Fund ­ Annual Report 2007
7.  A Methodology for Rapid Assessment of Rural Transport Services, Paul
    Starkey. Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program, SSATP Working
    Paper No.87-A, October 2007
8.  Roads Economic Decision Model Software User Guide & Case Studies,
    Rodrigo Archondo-Callao, Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
    SSATP Working paper No.78, Africa Region The World Bank, July 2004
9.  Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association
    to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World
    Bank Group for the Republic of Senegal, December 29, 1997
10. "Dakar Bus Financing Study" ­ IBIS Transport Consultants, Final Report,
    June 2008
11. République du Sénégal, Ministère des Infrastructures, Transports Terrestres et
    Transports Aériens. Conseil Exécutif des Transports Urbains de Dakar
    (CETUD) ­ Programme d'Amélioration de la Mobilité Urbaine a Dakar
    (PAMU) ­ « Rapport d'Exécution aux 30 Septembre 2008 » Rapport présenté
    par le CETUD
12. République du Sénégal, Ministère des Infrastructures, Transports Terrestres
    et Transports Aériens. Conseil Exécutif des Transports Urbains de Dakar
    (CETUD) ­ Programme d'Amélioration de la Mobilité Urbaine a Dakar
    (PAMU) ­ « Composante 4 du PAMU : Gestion de la Qualité de l'Air :
    Mission de Supervision du FND, octobre 2008
13. République du Sénégal, Ministère des Infrastructures, Transports Terrestres
    et Transports Aériens. Conseil Exécutif des Transports Urbains de Dakar
    (CETUD) ­ Programme d'Amélioration de la Mobilité Urbaine a Dakar
    (PAMU)- «Une Etude sur les Perspectives de Développement de DDD et
    PTB » Rapport Final de Phase 2, SYSTRA-IDC, Mai 2008
14. République du Sénégal, Ministère des Infrastructures, Transports Terrestres
    et Transports Aériens. Conseil Exécutif des Transports Urbains de Dakar



                                    32

    (CETUD), « Mesures des Indicateurs de Performance du PAMU ­ Campagne
    de mai/juin 2008 ­ PAMU ­ Composante 5 ­ Crédit No3354/SE, Contrat
    notifie le 14 mai 2008, GMAT, Aout 2008
15. République du Sénégal, Conseil Exécutif des Transports Urbains de Dakar,
    Programme d'Amélioration de la Mobilité Urbaine à Dakar (PAMU), «Etude
    d'Analyse de l'Impact Economique des Projets d'Infrastructures Routières du
    PAMU » Rapport Final, Consultant : Ibrahima Ndiaye, Economiste des
    Transports. septembre 2008
16. Evaluation Environnementale du Project d'Amélioration de la Mobilité
    Urbaine à Dakar, Conseil Exécutif des Transports Urbains de Dakar (CETUD),
    Tractebel, Development Engineering, mai 2000.




                                  33

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 30877

                                                     17°30'                                                                                                                                                   17°25'                                                                                                                                        17°20'


                                                                                   SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ent

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rebbeub
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       oisemeussé
                                       URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P.de                                                                                            NIAGA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             du  Lac M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lake

                                                        METROPOLITAN AREA OF DAKAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mbeubeussé


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               de   Malika

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Youi        MALIKA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P. de    Reboisement                     Lake

                                                     A T L A N T I C                           O C E A N

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GUÉDIAWAYE                                                                                                                                 KEUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MASSAR




                                                                                      Yoff Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             YEUMBEUL
                                                                                                                                    CAMBÉRÈNE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l     l  l  l  l   l  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l  l  l     l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l  l                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l                                             l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l  l  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                       Ngor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                         P. de Reboisement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                              l
                                       Island                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l        TIAROYE-GARE                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                           YOFF                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                                           l           de Mbao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                    NGALAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                   l  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P I K I N E                    l                                                                                                     l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                          l

                                NGOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l                                          DIAMMAGUEUN                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                     l
14°45'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l                                                                                                                         l                                                                                          14°45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                    GRAND                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                                     l

                                                                                                                                    MÉDINA                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                          l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                                                                                                              l
                 Pointe                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ll                      l  l  l  l  l  l  l  l  l  l  l  l  l                                                                                       l
                   des                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                  l   l                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l             l   l                                                  l
                 Almadies                                                                                                                                                                                                        l  l  l       l   l                                                             l                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l  l                                                                                     l  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                 l  l                                                                         l
                                                          Dakar-Yoff                                                                                                                                                 l                                                       THIAROYE-MER                                       l  l  l                                                                  l
                                                           Airport                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                  GRAND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l
                                                                                                                                                                                                               l                                                                                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                     YOFF                                                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                         OUAKAM                                                                              Hann              l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                              Park                                                                                                                                                                                                     MBAW
                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                       l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l

                                                                                                                                                                     l                                    Baie de Hann                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                    HANN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                   Airport                                                                       l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                    l                                                                                                                                                                                     URBAN AREAS                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                                                                                       ZONES URBAINES                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                l   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                               l                      l                           Anse de                                                                                                                                 INDUSTRIAL ZONE AND PORT                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                GRAND                                         l                                        Hann                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                              l                          l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                DAKAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RUFISQUE
                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                                                             QUARTIER INDUSTRIEL ET PORT                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                NIM-        l                                      l                                                                                                                                                      PARKS AND FORESTS
                                                                                              MERMOZ                            ZATT       l                                           l        BEL-AIR                                                                                                                                   PARCS ET FORETS
                                                                                                                                          l                     INDUSTRIAL                 l

                                                                                                                                                                     ZONE                       l
                                                                                                                                         l                                                                                                                                                                                                HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                    POINT E.                            l
                                                                                                                      KOLOBANE                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUTOROUTE
                                                                                                                                       l                                                   l    l
                                                                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                      l                                          l             l                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                             l                                l             l

                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                                                               ROUTE PRINCIPALE
                                                                                                                                                  l                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                   l                                               l                                                                                                                                      SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                UNIVERSITÉ                                           l                                              l  l

                                                     17°30'                                     DE DAKAR          MÉDINA                              l                                              l    l                                                                                                                               ROUTE SECONDAIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                       l                                          l

                                                                                                           GUELE                                                                                                                                                                                                         l  l  l  l  l
                                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                                                                                              RAILROADS
                                                                                                           TAPEE                                          l
                        Former                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                                                             CHEMIN DE FER
                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                               l                         PORT
                                                                                                                                                        l
                        Spanish                    ALGERIA                                                                                          l            l
                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                                                                                        RICE FIELDS
                        Sahara                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                         l                                                                                                                                                RIZIERES
                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                   REBEUSSE                               l           l
                                                                                                                                                                               l                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                  l                        l
    Ocean                                                                                                                                                                           l     l                                                                                                                                               ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                   l    l
                                                                                                                                  NIAYER                                                                     Pointe de Dakar                                                                                                              LIMITES ADMINISTRATIVES
                                                                                                                                  TIOKER
                         MAURITANIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                                                                            14°40'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14°40'
                                                                                                                 A n s e d e s                                                                                                                     Gorée                                                                                  FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Island
                                                                                                                M a d e l a i n e s                                     DAKAR
         Atlantic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      This map was produced by the

                                               M A L I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                  DIAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors,denominations
Dakar                                                                                                                                            DIOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and any other information shown on
                   SENEGAL                                 NIGER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0               1               2              3            4              5
                                                                                                                                                                                Pointe Bernard                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         this map do not imply, on the part of
 THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The World Bank Group, any judgment
GAMBIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KILOMETERS
                                                BURKINA           NIGERIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              on the legalstatus of any territory,or
   GUINEA-                                       FASO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  any endorsement or acceptance of
                           GUINEA
    BISSAU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             such boundaries.
                                                       TOGO
                                                          BENIN                                                                                                              Cap Manuel
                                                 GHANA
                                    CÔTE D'IVOIRE                                                                                                                                                             17°25'                                                                                                                                        17°20'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           APRIL 2000

