Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7490-HR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$202 MILLION
to
THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
October 26, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CROATIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Currency Equivalents
(Exchange Rate Effective as of October 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = Kuna
US$1.00  =HRK 8.2
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
WeiR-hts and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
APMC    - Agency for the Protection of Market    HMID    - Croatian Pension Investment
Competition                                      Company
BiH       - Bosnia and Herzegovina               MoF          Ministry of Finance
CAS       - Country Assistance Strategy          MOH       - Ministry of Health
CEE       - Central and Eastern Europe           NGOs    - Non-governmental Organizations
CEO       - Croatian Employment Office           PI        - Pension Institute
CPF       - Croatian Privatization Fund          REGOS   - Central Registry of Affiliates
CROSEC  - Croatia Securities and Exchange        SAL       - Structural Adjustment Loan
Commission
EBFs      - Extra Budgetary Funds                SBA       - Stand-by Arrangement
FDI       - Foreign Direct Investment            SMEs    - Small and Medium Enterprises
IBRD      - International Bank for               SOEs      - State-owned Enterprises
Reconstruction and Development
IMF       - International Monetary Fund          WTO       - World Trade Organization
IBS       - Household Budget Survey              ZAP       - Institute for Payments
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Andrew Vorkink
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader: Ilker Domac (through June 31, 2001)
Harry G. Broadman (from July 1, 2001)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Croatia
Amount:                   US$202 million
Terns:                     Payable in 15 years, including 5 years of grace and level
principal repayment, at six month LIBOR for US$ plus variable
spread for Variable-Rate Single Currency Loans.
Front-End Fee              1% on principal, capitalized
Commitment Fee:           0.75 percent of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Objectives and Description:   The operation supports the Governrnent of Croatia in the
implementation of a structural reform program that aims at
placing the economy on a path of rapid and sustainable growth in
the context of macroeconomic stability and prepare its
integration into European structures. The reform program is
designed to attain these goals through improving coordination
and management in economic policy making; enhancing fiscal
discipline;  strengthening  market  institutions  and  the
competitiveness of the economy; enhancing flexibility in the
labor market; and strengthening social protection.
Benefits:                 The structural reform program supported by the proposed loan
will engender restructuring of incentives and strengthening of the
institutional framework affecting the behavior of all major agents
in the economy-labor, enterprises, policy makers-so as to
enhance efficiency and bring about rapid, sustained growth. As
in most transition economies, to implement structural reforms
that cut across several sectors, mechanisms to achieve enduring
consensus and "buy-in" among several government agencies is
required; to this end, one of the benefits of the proposed
operation is support for measures that improve coordination and
management in economic policy-making in Croatia. Enhanced
fiscal discipline will come through the operation's measures that
provide for improved budget procedures, reduction/elimination
of direct/indirect subsidies, monitoring of government
guarantees, and reforns in the pension system and health care.
To strengthen Croatia's market institutions and competitiveness,
the operation supports reforms that enhance minority shareholder
rights, strengthen enforcement of competition policy, improve
the institutional capacity for resolving business disputes and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
facilitating bankruptcy proceedings, and put in place measures
that will help create a business-friendly environment conducive
to new investment, both domestic and foreign. To enhance
flexibility of the labor market, the operation supports reforms of
the basic legal and regulatory aspects of the employment regime
that will facilitate enterprise restructuring and redeployment of
workers to higher productivity jobs. This shift will support
Croatia's efforts to attain strong and sustained growth in the
context of today's more integrated and global economy. The
proposed loan will also support measures to cushion the
temporary adverse impact of the reform measures on the
vulnerable: it will make lasting improvements in the social safety
net through improvements in, inter alia, targeting and cost
effectiveness of social assistance as well as community based
social services.
Risks:                     The  envisioned  fiscal  adjustment  and  macroeconomic
perfornance could be adversely affected by slippage in program
implementation. More specifically, among others, there are risks
that the retrenchment of the wage-bill and reduction in public
employment are not attained; that containing health fund
expenditures could force the Government to resort to additional
foreign borrowing and/or building up arrears; or that the
envisaged privatization revenues may not be realized. If these
risks materialized, it would undermine the credibility of the fiscal
adjustment.
The recent slowdown in the world economy, punctuated by the
economic effects of the terrorist events in the U.S., could have a
destabilizing effect on the EU and Croatia. Such developments
could adversely affect Croatia's tourism sector and capital
inflows.
There are political risks that growing tension within the multi-
party coalition may undermine the Government's cohesiveness
and effectiveness, without which commitment to reforms would
dwindle and the capacity for policy implementation would
weaken. Currently, the policy differences among coalition
members are relatively mild and there is a perception that they
would lose more than gain if the Government were to collapse.
Taken together, these help to keep stability.
Schedule of Disbursements:   The proposed loan would be disbursed in two tranches: the first
tranche of US$102 million upon effectiveness of the loan, and
the second tranche of US$99.98 million upon compliance with
the agreed release conditions.



Poverty Category:           Not applicable.
Rate of Return:             Not applicable.
Project ID Number:          PE-P067223
Map:                        IBRD No. 29395
The project team included Harry G. Broadman (Team Leader and Market Institutions; ECSPE); llker
Domac (Team Leader and Fiscal Policy; ECSPE); Daria Goldstein (Counsel; LEGOP); Sanja
Madzarevic-Sujster (Fiscal Policy; ECSPE); Mamta Murthi (Social Protection; ECHSD); Philip B.
O'Keefe (Pensions/Health; ECHSD); and Jan J. Rutkowski (Labor; ECSHD). The responsible Manager
was Kyle Peters (ECSPE). The peer reviewers were Craig Burnside (DECRG) and Pedro Alba
(MNSED).






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION .................................................................1
II. THE ECONOMY .................................................................3
III. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .................................................................6
The Components of the Program  ................................................................7
A.  Ensuring  a Sustainable Medium-term   Macroeconomic  Framework  .............                                                ...................7
B. Structural and  Institutional Reforms ..........................                                 .......................................8
B. 1 Improving Coordination and Management in Economic Policy Making ....................                                                   9
B.2   Enhancing  Fiscal Discipline .................................................................9
B.3. Strengthening Market Institutions and the Competitiveness of the Economy .......... 16
B.4. Enhancing  Flexibility  in the Labor Market ............................................................... 21
B.5. Strengthening  Social Protection ................................................................                                    25
IV. MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS ............................ 28
V. THE  PROPOSED   LOAN   ................................................................ 30
A. Rationale  and  Objectives ................................................................ 30
B. Links to  the Country  Assistance  Strategy ............................................................... . 30
C. Status of Implementation  of the Final Tranche  of the EFSAL  .................                                         ....................... 31
D. SAL  Board  Conditions and  Tranche Triggers ................................................................ 31
E. Poverty Implications ................................................................                                                       31
F. Coordination  with the IMF  and  other Donors ................................................................  32
G. Implementation, Monitoring, and  Supervision ................................................................ 32
H. Financial Arrangements ................................................................                                                     32
I. Benefits and Risks ................................................................                                                         33
VI. RECOMMENDATION ................................................................                                                                   35
Tables:
TABLE  1:  FISCAL  ADJUSTMENT  2001-2003 .................................................................8
TABLE 2: CROATIA - COMPOSITION OF REAL GDP GROWTH .............................. 29
TABLE 3: CROATIA - KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS ............................... 30
Text Boxes:
BOX 1: THE MACROECONOMIC SETTING BETWEEN 1994 AND 2001 ......................2
BOX 2: KEY ISSUES IN THE HEALTH SECTOR ............................................................ 12
BOX 3: KEY ISSUES IN THE PENSION SYSTEM  .......................................................... 13



Figures:
FIGURE 1: EVOLUTION OF SELECTED MACROECONOMIC VARIABLES ............... 5
Annexes:
1. LETTER  OF DEVELOPMENT  POLICY .............................................................                       36
2. MATRIX  OF CORE POLICY  ACTIONS .............................................................                       5 1
3. CROATIA  AT A  GLANCE .............................................................                                 55
4. TIMETABLE  OF KEY  PROCESSING  EVENTS ............................................................. 57
5. STATUS OF BANK  GROUP OPERATIONS IN  CROATIA .......................................... 58



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
structural adjustment loan (SAL) to the Republic of Croatia in the amount of US$ 202 million to
support the Government's structural reforn program. This report should be read in conjunction
with both (i) the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the World Bank Group for the Republic
of Croatia (Report No. 19280-HR), dated May 11, 1999, and discussed by the Executive
Directors on June 3, 1999, and (ii) the CAS Progress Report of the World Bank Group for the
Republic of Croatia (Report No. 22633-HR), dated August 22, 2001, and discussed by the
Executive Directors on September 18, 2001.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.    In October 1993, Croatia launched a stabilization program, which succeeded in defeating
hyper-inflation and stabilizing the exchange rate. The initial stage of the prograrn consisted of,
inter alia, prudent anti-inflationary monetary and fiscal policies, liberalization of the foreign
exchange market, closer realignment of prices of public utilities with costs, and more effective
control of public sector wages. In the following four years, during which inflation was relatively
low and the exchange rate remained stable, the country enjoyed strong economic growth-GDP
grew at an annual rate of over 6 percent.
3.    But progress in the second stage of the program, involving structural reforms necessary to
ensure long-term economic stability and sustainable growth, has been patchy. More specifically,
the progress with reforming public finances, improving the flexibility and resilience of the
economy, particularly in labor market development, and addressing structural problems in the
enterprise sector has been slower than desired. Indeed, policy slippages (Box 1) coupled with
less forthcoming foreign financing as a result of the Russian crisis, started to erode growth. GDP
growth slowed down to 2.5 percent in 1998, due to the Kosovo conflict, further contracted by 0.4
percent in 1999, unveiling the structural weaknesses embedded in the Croatian economy.
Concurrently, the unemployment rate increased to 14.5 percent in 1999 from the already high
levels of 10-11 percent during 1997-98. Despite regaining growth, unemployment continued
rising, reaching 17 percent in mid-2001.
4.    The Bank's February 2000 study entitled "Croatia:A Policy Agenda for Reform and
Growth" underscored the challenges facing the country and proposed a reform strategy which
contains two sets of policies. The first set of policy actions included immediate measures to: (i)
reduce macroeconomic imbalances to ensure stability, and to introduce complementary reforms
to address the underlying structural causes of imbalances--the fiscal imbalance in particular; (ii)
I All unemployment rate figures based on the bi-annual Labor Force Survey (LFS). Besides the LFS-based unemployment
figure, the Croatian Employment Office, collects data on the registered unemployed, based on administrative sources; the CEO
figure reached 21.5 percent by mid-2001.



increase the flexibility of the economy; and (iii) create a business-friendly environment that is
conducive to attracting investment. The second set of policy actions recommended in the study
comprised mediun-term measures designed to: (i) improve efficiency in the allocation and use
of the factors of production by reducing prevailing distortions; and (ii) increase the long-run
growth rate of output by providing incentives for domestic savings and investments, and
promoting educational and technological innovation.
Box 1: The Macroeconomic Setting between 1994 and 2001
The macroeconomic boom and the improved security situation (along with a stable exchange rate and prices) throughout 1994-97
led to a rise in bank deposits, as increased confidence in the macroeconomic outlook spurred not only an increase in local demand
for domestic assets, but also attracted large capital inflows, mainly in the form of repatriation of capital that engrossed the stock
of foreign-exchange-based deposits. The increased funding of the banking system via these deposits triggered a bank lending
boom. This supply-driven credit boom led to a large increase in imports for reconstruction activities and consumption. This, in
the absence of a commensurate increase in exports, produced a large current account deficit, which reached 4ts peak of 11.6
percent of GDP in 1997.
As the current account deficit rose, the way that it was financed changed. While, initially, the current account deficit was
financed by non-debt creating capital inflows (mainly the repatriation of savings), beginning in 1997 these inflows declined
significantly. Croatia, then, began to rely heavily on extemal debt and privatization revenues to finance its growing current
account deficit. As a result, extemal debt rose to over 56.7 percent of GDP in 2000 from 20.7 percent in 1994-a rapid and
unsustainable build-up.
Slow progress in key structural reforms, policy slippages as well as an external shock-the Kosovo conflict-all paved the way
to the challenging economic conditions that the country currently faces; particularly in the fiscal sphere and in improving the
flexibility and resilience of domestic economy.
The public sector expanded noticeably during this period: consolidated central govemment expenditures in relation to GDP rose
by 10 percentage points of GDP between 1994 and 1999, reaching 50.4 percent of GDP by the end-1999 (or an equivalent of 56
percent of GDP once local govemment spending is included). Increases in wages and social spending, particularly in pensions
and health, were the major contributing factors to this rapid expansion. The unsustainable nature of the sharp expansion of
expenditures became apparent as the economic slowdown, which began at the end of 1998, revealed the underlying structural
weaknesses in the public sector. The deficit of the consolidated central govemment -excluding privatization revenues and on
accrual basis-increased to 7.4 percent of GDP in 1999 from 3 percent of GDP in 1998.
As a result of the expansionary fiscal stance and the Government's wage policy during the boom period, monetary policy had to
bear the brunt of the policy tightening to counter the sharp increase in the current account deficit. This policy mix, in tum, led to
high interest rates and along with the excessive wage increases exacerbated the pressure toward appreciation of the real exchange
rate. These outcomes-higher interest rates and real appreciation-also proved to be harmful for economic activity and financial
stability. The alternative-tighter fiscal policy and easier monetary policy-would have been more desirable, not only providing
more maneuvering room for the authorities in supporting the banks, but also not exerting upward pressure on interest rates and
the exchange rate.
The new Government recognizes that the current tax burden is high, and has made it clear that the fiscal adjustment will need to
rely mainly on sustainable expenditure cuts. The Govemment has already taken steps to change the mix of macroeconomic
policies, as the policies of the past few years-high fiscal deficits, high levels of taxation and an expansive public sector-have
engendered macroeconomic imbalances (the current account deficit, inflation and unemployment) and stifled private sector
activity. The Government has also designed a medium-term reform program (2001-03) aimed at re-balancing monetary and fiscal
policy and revitalizing structural reforms with exchange rate stability. This program, supported in its first year, b) an IMF Stand
By Arrangement (SBA), aims to reduce the deficit of the consolidated central govemment from 5.3 percent of GiDP in 2001 to
1.3 of GDP by the end of 2003. This would suffice to place fiscal policy on a sustainable course. Achieving these targets would
require broader and deeper reforms, particularly in the civil service and the extra-budgetary funds (EBFs), as the reductions
achieved in 2000 through wage restraint and cuts in public investment are not likely to be sustained.
5.      In July 2001  the Bank discussed with the authorities a draft Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review for Croatia. The PEIR showed that public sector reform oriented to both
2



diminishing the size of the state and reducing the fiscal deficit to sustain macroeconomic stability
in the medium term should be one of the Govermnent's priorities. It also showed that the level of
public sector spending and the ensuing fiscal deficits are not sustainable in the long run. The
results of a fiscal sustainability exercise conducted for the PEIR indicated that, in order to keep
the stock of debt stable as a fraction of GDP, the government needs to run a primary deficit of
no more than 0.3 percent of GDP, which is far below those achieved over the last two years.
Moreover, Croatia's public sector is extremely large on a comparative basis and had also
expanded significantly, while virtually all Central European economies have reduced the size of
their public sectors during the 1990s.
6.    The Government has already made a good start in this process by reducing expenditures
by some 5 percent of GDP in 2000 and lowering the fiscal deficit. However, as the Government
recognizes, substantial further progress is needed. The PEIR has showed that the scope for
reducing the deficit through revenue increases is limited; in fact, a decrease in the tax burden
would be highly desirable. This means that most of the adjustment will need to be made in public
expenditures, in health and social protection, as well as in improving processes of expenditure
management. Many of the findings and recommendations from the PEIR form the basis for the
proposed SAL, including measures relating to health, pension, social assistance reform and
budget management.
II. THE ECONOMY
7.    General economic context. Lax fiscal policies, rapid growth in wages and bank credit,
and a lack of discipline in state-owned enterprises, along with an external shock put a brake on
the strong economic growth and macro stability that the country enjoyed for several years. The
rapid expansion of consumer credit and strong income growth, among other things, engendered a
surge in private domestic demand, which, in turn, caused the current account deficit to reach
unsustainable levels. In spite of the economic slowdown, the current account deficit, which
peaked in 1997 at 11.7 percent of GDP, remained high at around 7 percent of GDP in 1998 and
1999. The policy mix-tight monetary and lax fiscal-along with an economic slowdown and a
marked decline in repatriated foreign savings revealed the underlying weakness of a group of
private banks. The Croatian National Bank intervened in 17 distressed banks-accounting for 17
percent of banking sector assets-during 1998 and the first half of 1999.
8.   In response to these challenges, Croatian authorities formulated an economic strategy
covering the period of 2001-03 that aims to attain sustainable high rates of economic growth
with price stability and external viability. The authorities' economic strategy contains, inter alia,
fiscal adjustment, wage restraint, and the implementation of structural reforms to enhance the
flexibility and the efficiency of the economy.
9.    Recent economic developments. Consumption and export-led growth returned quickly
following the 1999 recession; (see Figure 1 and Box 1). The Croatian economy expanded by 3.7
percent in 2000. The banking sector has recovered from its crisis and confidence in the banking
system strengthened considerably.  Moreover, the country also took steps toward closer
integration with the world economy, which included: (i) completion of WTO membership; (ii)
acquisition of trade concessions form the EU; (iii) signing a free trade agreement with Bosnia
3



and Herzegovina, and Hungary, which became effective in April 2001; and (iv) successfully
negotiating a Stabilization and Association Agreement with the EU. Notwithstanding these
positive developments, unemployment remained high at 17 percent in mid-2001 due mainly to
rigidities in the labor market and patchy progress in enterprise restructuring.  However,
preliminary results on the growth rate in the first half of 2001 point to a continued recovery at
4.5 percent year-on-year despite weaker external demand. While private consumption remains
strong, imports of machinery, equipment and intermediate goods, together with increased lending
activity to enterprises, indicate growth of private sector investments. The deleterious economic
impacts stemming from the events of September 11, 2001 in the U.S. may affect world economic
growth and thus spillover to the EU and Croatia's economy, particularly the tourism sector (see
the discussion under Risks in Section V below).
10.   External balance. After running large current account deficits in 1998 and 1999,
corresponding to 7.1 percent of GDP and 6.9 percent of GDP, respectively, the current account
deficit declined to 2.1 percent of GDP in 2000. The improvement in the current account
stemmed from strengthening foreign demand, the acquisition of trade preferences from the EU,
rebounding tourism income, and a temporary increase in income transfers. The noticeable
increase in exports to the Euro area has been a major driving force behind the overall increase in
exports, whose share in the total has gone up by some 6 percentage points to 54.5 percent. As a
result of the improvement in the current account and in capital inflows along with government
borrowing, international reserves had risen by 16.5 percent in December 2000 compared to a
year earlier. Despite a temporary weakening of the external balance in the first half of 2001,
mainly due to a surge of car imports, prompted by the abolishment in June 2001 of custom
duties' exemptions given to war veterans, strong tourism receipts and a slowdown of imports in
the second half of the year will probably keep the current account deficit around 3.7 percent of
GDP. Improved access to foreign markets and continued fiscal consolidation suggest that high
current account deficits of the past are unlikely to recur.
11.   Fiscal balance. Although the original budget target for 2000 was not met, the authorities
lowered the consolidated central government deficit from 7.4 percent in 1999 to 5.7 percent in
2000. In 2000, revenues declined from their 1998 peak of 45.6 percent of GDP to 40.4 percent
of GDP. Expenditures also declined by an estimated 3.5 percentage points of GDP. Moreover,
the authorities were able to reduce domestic arrears, which fell from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1999
to about 3.8 percent of GDP in 2000, thanks to privatization receipts, improved access to
international capital markets, and high liquidity in the banking system.
4



Figure 1: Evolution of Selected Macroeconomic Variables
GDP Growth                                Inflation (annual average)
9                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.
4...   .    ..
4-
0
-2        -
1964    1995    199i     1997    19r9e     1999    2000 1i95  1996  19.7  1p9e () m   2000
Real Effective Exchange Rate                The twin deficits in Croatia (% of GDP)
108.                                             (% .IGDP)
104                                           9i   A-*    C0    051df
40 1 program e sv            nt
204   ,
102
98-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0
and94 wage rsa n97 wit t                                                              2001.
12.   The inflation rate in 2000 increased to 6.2 percent (annual average) from 4.2 percent in
1999. The rise in inflation was due mainly to an increase in excise taxes and higher electricity
prices for households. Nevertheless, the outlook for inflation remains benign for several reasons.
First, the external factors--oil prices and the Kuna's exchange rate vis a vis the Euro, among
other things-that exerted upward pressure on prices are expected to reverse. Second, the
average tariff rate will decline to 6 percent in 2001 from 6.6 percent as a result of)WTO
membership.2 Third, the macroeconomic program  envisions to achieve exchange rate stability
and wage restraint, with the support of the necessary structural reform  measures. For 2001,
liberalization of oil price determination aswell as the adjustment of telecommunication prices to
WTO requirements will likely lead to average inflation of 6 percent. Inflation in September
2001 stood at 5.9 percent (year on year).
13.   Notwithstanding the above described favorable developments, the policy objectives of
resumption of enduring growth, safeguarding social stability, and employment creation all hinge
on the implementation of a credible public sector fiscal adjustment and structural reforms aimed
at elimination of distortions that undermine efficient resource allocation, competition, and
2Moreover, tariffs on agricultural and food products will be reduced from an average of 33.7 percent to 16.4 percent
over seven years.
5



(domestic and foreign) investment. Attaining these objectives will be crucial not only for
placing Croatia on a sustainable growth path, but also for integration into European structures.
14.   Undoubtedly, postponing corrective actions will require more costly adjustments in the
future. Moreover, Croatia's ability to continue postponing key structural reforms will diminish
over time as the country cannot long rely on privatization revenues, in view of uncertainties
associated with the realization of transactions and the limited amount of remaining large assets to
privatize. By the same token, relatively easy access to international markets at favorable terms
may not continue if the marked increase in external indebtedness is not translated into the
improvement in the country's competitiveness, and hence exports, through the implementation of
structural reforms.
III. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
15.   The Croatian authorities are determined to maintain macroeconomic stability and attain
sustainable high rates of economic growth. To this end, the Government is resolute to address
the two key economic challenges:
*  Fiscal Adjustment. As noted earlier, the public sector in Croatia expanded noticeably
between 1994 and 1999. Increases in wages and transfers-particularly transfers to the
Pension and Health Funds- along with weaknesses in budget management were the key
contributing factors to the rapid expansion of government expenditures. A fiscal
consolidation that started in 2000 has succeeded in lowering central government spending to
47.6 percent of GDP. However, further reform steps have to be taken to put fiscal policy on
sustainable path. The objective of implementing a credible fiscal adjustment will be achieved
through sustainable changes in fiscal policy, as opposed to drastic and unsustainable cuts in
public investment and non-wage current expenditures. This will entail sustainable reductions
in transfers and the Government's wage bill. Since transfers to the Pension and Health Funds
constitute an important part of the total transfers, sustainable reductions in these areas cannot
be realized without the implementation of structural reforms.  A  successful fiscal
consolidation will lead to an increase in national savings and buttress macroeconomic
stability, thereby creating a conducive environment for sustainable economic growth.
*  Increasing Flexibility and Efficiency of the Economy. This will require, inter alia, the
implementation of structural reforms aimed at strengthening market institutions and the
competitiveness of the economy. The implementation of these reforms will, in turn, create a
business friendly environment that is conducive to investments, particularly FDI. Addressing
the rigidities of the labor market will also be an integral part of the reform agenda in terms of
tackling high unemployment and facilitating enterprise restructuring. Sustainability of the
reform process will hinge on strengthening the existing safety net to mitigate social costs of
the reforms and safeguard people who might become disadvantaged as a result of the
structural changes envisaged. In this respect, policy actions to improve poverty monitoring
and targeting effectiveness of social assistance will be essential.
16.   The Croatian authorities realize the significance of these challenges and are determined to
take the necessary policy actions. To this end, the authorities fornulated an economic strategy
6



covering the period of 2001-03 that aims to attain sustainable high rates of economic growth
with price stability and external viability. The authorities' economic strategy comprises short-
term elements required for buttressing macroeconomic stability, which are supported by an IMF
SBA (approved on March 19, 2001). In view of the underlying structural causes of the fiscal
deficit along with other structural problems impeding the flexibility and efficiency of the
economy, the authorities' economic program also comprises additional reform measures
described more fully in sub-section B below.
17.   The Government has requested a SAL to support its medium-termn structural and
institutional reform program. The SAL financing will allow a smoother and more rapid
adjustment as well as more resources to implement the Government's structural program. It will
also complement the authorities' macroeconomic framework supported by the IMF's SBA.
The Components of the Program
A. Ensuring a Sustainable Medium-term Macroeconomic Framework
18.   Deterioration of the fiscal deficit since 1994 has been a major threat to macroeconomic
stability-a prerequisite for successfully implementing the structural reform agenda. The
authorities formulated a macroeconomic framework, which centers on fiscal adjustment, wage
discipline, and continued exchange rate stability to put the economy on a sustainable growth
path, and to ensure price stability as well as external viability. The Government's overall reformn
program has been designed within a macroeconomic framework in line with its SBA with the
IMF.
19.   Table 1 summarizes the envisaged fiscal adjustment. The Government aims to reduce the
consolidated central government deficit from 5.7 percent of GDP in 2000 to 1.3 of GDP by the
end of 2003. It should be noted that the fiscal program for 2001 includes the fiscal costs of tax
reductions and court-mandated pension expenditures-estimated to be around 3.1 percent of
GDP. Consequently, the reduction of the deficit by 0.4 percent of GDP in 2001 entails slashing
expenditures by 3.6 percent of GDP. More importantly, all retrenchments-except the one that
involves transferring spending on highway construction and maintenance to a separate agency-
suggest that they are, if implemented, sustainable cuts, thereby ensuring the credibility of the
fiscal adjustment.
20.   One of the key elements of the program is wage policy reform, which envisions a
reduction in the central budget wage bill by 10 percent (from 11 percent of GDP in 2000 to 9.6
percent of GDP in 2001). The following measures constitute the crux of the substantial
reduction in the wage bill: (i) downsizing of the public sector amounting to some 10,000 lay-offs
mainly in the Defense and Interior Ministries; (ii) unification of job grade coefficients (attached
to the basic wage) at various ministries; and (iii) repeal or change in all collective agreements.
21.   The envisioned fiscal adjustment contains four risks. First, the planned reductions in the
wage bill between 2001 and 2003-a crucial ingredient of the fiscal consolidation-appear very
ambitious, particularly in view of the recent trend. The late implementation of the new wage
policy and the exclusion of some ministries, on a temporary basis, means that the wage bill will
7



exceed the plan for 2001 by some 0.2 percent of GDP. The proposed medium-term wage policy
currently under discussion with the unions falls short of achieving the envisioned nominal freeze
of the gross wage bill by the end of 2003. Second, recent tax policy changes which, inter alia,
included reductions in the profit tax rate and in the personal income tax rate for low income
earners were inappropriate as they were implemented before placing the budget on fiscally
sustainable path.  Third, the progress on health and pension reforms have been slower than
envisioned in the three-year fiscal framework and the possibility that certain measures taken to
date-such as reduction of sick and maternity pay replacement rate-can be reversed under
social pressure poses a serious threat to the reform process. Finally, the establishment of extra-
budgetary agencies-such as Croatian Roads and Croatian Highways-could undermine fiscal
discipline by, inter alia, shifting deficits to quasi-fiscal institutions.
Table 1. Fiscal Adjustment 2001-2003 (% of GDP)4
2000       2001P       2002P   2003P
Revenue and Grants                               40.4        37.8        36.8    36.3
Expenditure and net lending                      46.1        43.1        40.9    37.6
Court mandated pension payments                1.1         2.3         2.2      [.1
Others                                        45.0        40.8        38.8    36.5
Consolidated central Gov. Balancea               -5.7        -5.3        -4.1    -1.3
Primary Balance                               -4.0        -3.2        -2.2      0. 7
Memorandum Items
Second pillar introduction cost             0.0         0.0          1.3     ' .3
Change in revenues and grants              -2.3         -2.6        -1.0    -0.4
Change in other expenditures                -5.0       -4.2         -2.0    -2.3
a: Excluding privatization revenues;
p: Based on the Ministry of Finance three years framework
22.    With these caveats in mind, provided that the envisaged cuts are implemented and
structural reforms in the health and pension sectors are carried out, the Government's fiscal
framework would place Croatia on a sustainable path by the end of 2003.5 Nonetheless, the
above highlighted risks to the envisioned fiscal consolidation raise serious concerns, which, in
turn, could undermine the credibility of the fiscal reform if they are not addressed without delay.
B. Structural and Institutional Reforms
23.    The structural and institutional reform  program  to be supported by the proposed SAL
covers five areas:
3 Moreover, these policy changes increased the uncertainty associated with the revenue projections at a time when
the Government initiates a major fiscal consolidation program.
4The Government program is defined in terms of the consolidated central government fiscal accounts which
includes the extra-budgetary funds but excludes local governments whose total deficit is, nevertheless, relatively
small.
5 Fiscal sustainability calculations suggest that that the sustainable primary fiscal surplus is -0.3 percent of GDP.
8



*  Improving coordination and management in economic policy making is crucial for
successfully implementing the envisioned structural reforms, which would require coherent
cross-sectoral policy making. In this respect, there is a strong rationale to improve the
coordination and ability to form consensus across agencies in economic policy-making
within the Government.
* Enhancing fiscal discipline is critical to achieving the envisioned fiscal adjustment. It will
entail improvements in the budget process, reduction and elimination of direct and indirect
subsidies, monitoring guarantees, and improvements in the health care and pension systems.
* Strengthening market institutions and the competitiveness of the economy is required to
increase the flexibility as well as the efficiency of the economy and create a business-friendly
environment that is conducive to attracting investment-both domestic and foreign.
*  Enhancing flexibility in the labor market is a prerequisite for tackling unemployment and
facilitating enterprise restructuring as well as redeployment of labor. Indeed, promoting
employment in Croatia is among the key policy priorities of the Government, as the country
suffers from high structural unemployment.
* Strengthening social protection is needed to alleviate the social consequences of the reform
measures envisioned in the Government's structural reform program.
B:.1 Improving Coordination and Management in Economic Policy Making
24.   Successful implementation  of a  cross-cutting  reforn  agenda  requires major
improvements in the management of economic policy. In order to achieve this objective, the
Government established a new coordination body-the Prime Minister's Cabinet-consisting of
the Prime Minister, the three Deputy Prime Ministers, and the Secretary of the Government,
which meets regularly to improve coordination and consensus-building across agencies in all
policy-making areas, including economic policies. In the area of economic policy-making, the
coordination body will be assisted by a new expert staff team, which was established recently
within the office of the Deputy Prime Minister for economic policy. The expert staff team will
facilitate on a Government-wide basis the program preparation, implementation, and
coordination of activities in all areas outlined in the Government's reform program, including
those envisioned in the proposed the SAL.
B.2 Enhancing Fiscal Discipline
Context
25.   Budgetary Processes. As measured by the share of public expenditure in GDP, the size
of the Consolidated General Government expanded by almost 15 percentage points of GDP
between 1991 and 1999, reaching about 56 percent of GDP. Overall public spending has been
lowered to 51.3 percent in 2000. Such a ratio still puts Croatia in an unfavorable position when
compared with other transition economies in Eastern Europe, which in most cases have kept the
9



size of their public sectors constant over the same period while some other countries even
managed to reduce it.
26.   The marked expansion in public spending-particularly in the areas of civil servants'
wages, pension, health, and subsidies-is unsustainable. With tax levels around 40 percentage
points of GDP and with the core tax reform practically concluded, Croatia cannot rely on
revenue expansion to achieve the envisioned fiscal consolidation. Consequently, the fiscal
retrenchment must be achieved through durable cuts in expenditures.
27.   Immediate measures and policies to reduce the fiscal deficit in 2001 are being supported
by the IMF SBA. Nevertheless, medium-termn expenditure management reforms will be
necessary to ensure fiscal sustainability. These reform measures will need to encompass not only
incentives and policies in entitlement programs, but also changes in the Government's budgetary
management processes.
28.   The current budgetary process as well as accounting practices do not cover all
government activities: some budgetary users-such as the Croatian Privatization Fund, Agency
for Bank Rehabilitation and Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development-have been
only partially and irregularly presented in the budget. The current budget process fails to take
adequate account for, inter alia, transactions from the foreign currency account, expenditure
arrears, and hidden subsidies to public enterprises.
29.   Improvements in the budgetary process would not only ensure a more transparent system
of public finances, but also result in important budgetary savings. According to Government
estimates, introduction of the single Treasury system could lead to savings up to 5 percentage
points of GDP. Under the current cash-based budget system, it can be misleading to look only at
the official deficits as cash outlays can be 'controlled' by not paying obligations. Moreover,
where internal controls and auditing are not well established, a spending unit may not enter the
commitment into the accounting system until well after it is due. Under these conditions,
accumulation of arrears is one indication that budgets are not controlled. Indeed, at the end of
1999, the Ministry of Finance identified 9.5 billion kuna (6 percent of GDP) in arrears from on
and off-budget sources.6
30.    Subsidies in Croatia, at some 2.7 percent of GDP in 2000, are relatively low compared to
other transition countries. But the actual magnitude of subsidization is not fully known. Official
figures exclude hidden subsidies7 given to shipyards, agro-combinates and other state-owned
companies, as well as tax subsidies to war veterans and entities in the areas of special state
concern.8 Direct subsidies are fairly concentrated in transport (railways and the national airline)
and agriculture. One third of direct subsidies goes to agriculture and almost one third to Croatian
Railways. All in all, direct, and more often, indirect subsidies have been used to postpone the
6 It should be noted that the Government achieved a substantial reduction of domestic arrears to about 3.8 percent of
GDP at end-2000.
7 This includes: custom waivers, social security contribution waivers, tax waivers, credit lines with subsidized
interest rates, and debt-equity swaps at nominal value.
8 This includes: tax free car imports, reduced interest rates on housing loans to war veterans, reduced tax rates of
income and profit taxes in the areas of special government concern.
10



resolution of different forms of enterprise restructuring, thereby avoiding what otherwise would
have resulted in bankruptcies.
31.   Guarantees have been often used as a mechanism for the rehabilitation of certain sectors,
such as the shipbuilding industry, tourism and agriculture. These guarantees usually operated
through domestic banks, some of which have recently experienced financial problems or were
rehabilitated by the government in the last four years. The total net amount of guarantees issued
since 1996 is close to HRK 28 billion or some 17.7 percent of GDP, of which 66.5 percent are
financial guarantees. Although the Budget Execution Law covers at least financial guarantees,
criteria for selecting the beneficiaries is not clearly spelled out. Furthermore, these guarantees
were often issued without a clear plan or risk contagion measures. By setting an obligatory
commission at the rate of 0.5 percent of the guarantee amount, the Government made a step
forward in assuring the financial coverage of called guarantees.9
32.   Croatia spends about 9 percent of its GDP on health, which is well above the levels of
CEE countries, for which the average is 6-7 percent.  About 80 percent of all health
expenditures-over 7 percent of GDP-come from  public sources, principally the Health
Insurance Institute (HII) and Ministry of Health transfers, with private out-of-pocket payments
accounting for the rest. These high levels of health spending are not sustainable, as the
experience of the past few years has shown. Beleaguered by systemic, sustained and substantial
financial deficits in recent years, the health sector has required sizeable infusions of funds to stay
afloat and maintain the flow of inputs necessary to keep the provision of health services at levels
expected by the population.
33.   The Ministry of Health realizes and has begun to confront the serious structural problems
in the health sector. In 2000, it developed and received Parliamentary approval for a Health
Sector Reform Strategy, which is intended to be the basis for overhauling relevant legislation,
and reorienting health system practices. In addition, cost-saving measures such as hard budget
caps for hospitals and reference pricing for drugs have been introduced by the Ministry of Health
in a bid to contain the upward cost-spiral. Naturally, many of the proposed reforns are
politically sensitive, and will need to be managed skillfully. However, the scale and structural
nature of health sector deficits require fimdamental measures (Box 2).
34.   Although Croatia initiated a comprehensive overhaul of its pension system in the late
1990s, there remains a significant implementation agenda, as well as continuing concerns about
the pension system deficit (Box 3). The reforms included 1998 amendments to the first pillar
law which helped control expenditures (e.g. moving from full wage to half wage-half price
indexation), protected the minimum pension, and took structural steps such as a gradual increase
in retirement ages. This was followed in 1999 by legislation providing the framework for
mandatory and voluntary funded pensions, managed by private pension funds.
9 The previous provision of 6 percent of all financial guarantees issued to be secured from the budget failed to
ensure that the risk is shared between the government and a final borrower. Furthermore, a 6 percent rate was
inadequate, as the estimated effective rate of call-offs for financial guarantees was 11.8 percent.
11



Box 2: Key Issues in the Health Sector
A critical feature of the health sector is the weak incentives to providers and patients to have treatment done at the most
cost-effective level of care. As a result, patients are passed up the system to more expensive care settings. Addressing the
problem requires experiences with alternative care settings (e.g. day hospitals; hospices), and different ways of structuring
incentives for primary care providers (e.g. group practice; GP fund-holding). Until recently, there were limited c2fforts in either
direction.
A second distinctive feature of the Croatian health system is the very low level of cost recovery for serv ices and inputs
such as drugs, and the wide exemptions on co-payments, with 70-80 percent of the population exempted from any payment. This
leads not only to low co-payment revenue in the system (of less than 2 percent of total sectoral revenues, as against European
averages of 7-12 percent), but also encourages non-essential use of the system. It also means that exemptions on co-payments are
not provided on the basis of need, but under broadly inclusive user categories. MOH, together with medical experts and
pharmaceutical companies, have been working intensively on addressing the problem. This has involved work on a basic
package of health services, revision of co-payment lists with greater incentives to use generic drugs and only essential services,
and discussions with other ministries on reducing exemptions on co-payments.
Sick leave is a serious issue in Croatia, and the burden is mainly on the Health Insurance Institute, which in recent years
has financed two thirds of sick leave payments. 10 With the exception of the first 42 days, the Hlealth Insurance Institute is
responsible for sick leave payments up to one year or even beyond. In 1999, sick leave payments accounted for almost 6 percent
of total HII spending, and around 10 percent of all arrears. The high cost is driven both by the generous sick leave entitlement
period, and by weak controls on use of the sick pay system, with enterprises using extended sick leave as a wage s.ibsidy. There
is a need to re-think the sick leave regime, in particular shortening the maximum entitlement to six months, and tightening
verification and reporting procedures to minimize abuse by firms and employees.
35.     Despite the 1998 reforms, the PAYGO  system  remains a source of major fiscal pressure.
Total pension spending in 2001 is projected to be around 14 percent of GDP, in part due to court-
mandated restitution payments.1' The total pension system deficit is projected to peak in 2001-
2002 at over 6 percent of GDP. While this will fall to around four and a half percent by 2005
(due to completion of some restitution payments), the system is not projected to be in balance
until around 2020. This is driven particularly by the position for non-contributory pension rights
(e.g. army, police), which remain a serious drain on the system. Despite already high spending,
the system is also vulnerable to increases in areas such as disability, if the pension system is used
as a major cushion of public sector and economic restructuring. In the longer run, an aging
population will put increased pressures on the first pillar, with the number of new entrants to the
system expected to be roughly double the 2010 level by 2020.
Reform Objectives and SAL Measures
36.     A  successful fiscal adjustment is a prerequisite for macroeconomic stability and placing
the country on sustainable high rates of economic growth. Consistent with this objective, this
component of the reform program contains four goals: (i) improvements in the budget process;
(ii) making indirect subsides transparent and reducing subsidies economy-wide; (iii) monitoring
Government guarantees; and (iv) improvements in the health care and pension systems.
"0 The scale of the problem can be seen from basic data. On average, there are 15 million sick days in Croatia, with
about 4 percent of active employees on sick leave at any one time.
I] The Croatian Constitutional Court ordered two rounds of restitution payments - one for the budget's failure to
make transfers for merit pensions, and another for improper indexation of benefits. Each restitution accounted for
just over I percent of GDP annually, peaking with double obligations in 2001-2002 of over 2 percent of GDP.
12



Box 3: Key Issues in the Pension System
The pensions system in Croatia is faced with dual challenges: to amend further the first pillar in order to better
balance revenues and expenditures and prepare for expected demographic impacts, and to move more aggressively with
preparatory steps for implementation of funded pensions.
On the PAYGO system, there are a number of areas where further action is needed, but three that are key are: (i)
strengthening the basic principle that pension accruals are based only on contributions actually made, which should have a
positive effect on compliance; (ii) taking action to improve the situation on early retirement pensions. Over 50 percent of
the current stock of pensioners are early retirees. While this has reduced from the early 1990s, incentives for early
retirement remain and put unnecessary pressure on the first pillar. In particular, the annual decrement in pension for early
retirement remains well below the actuarially neutral level, and the number and generosity of early retirement entitlements
remains significant; and (iii) adjusting minimum pension entitlements, for which there are weak incentives for
contributions above a legal minimum. As a result, accrual rates are well above actuarially neutral levels. In addition,
those on the minimum pension are subject to even lower decrements for early retirement. As an estimated 40 percent of
the new flow of pensioners are likely to be on minimum pensions, such structural imbalances are a serious cause for
concern.
An additional issue in the first pillar relates to Pension Institute ownership and management of a large asset
portfolio (with estimated market value of around DM 800 million). While the P1 was meant to transfer management of the
assets to the Croatia Privatization Fund in 2000, this was only done for weaker holdings. The valuable assets - held in a PI
fund management company - remain under the PI. Continued PI management of the assets has resulted both in passive
corporate govemance, and in distraction of PI management from core functions. From both the corporate governance and
pensions administration angles, continued PI ownership and management of the asset portfolio is undesirable.
With respect to funded pensions, the 1999 legislation provides a solid framework for multi-pillar reform. The
problem to date has been slower than needed progress on preparatory steps for implementation of the second and third
pillars, which threatens the viability of the proposed 2002 start date. While some steps were taken in recent months,
implementation remains well behind schedule, pending decisions and action on key issues, including the division of roles
and responsibilities in pension and tax administration reform. Without agreement on the roadmap for consolidation of
contribution and data collection, preparations for the dealing with second pillar contributions will remain piecemeal, and
subject to institutional rivalries.
37.    Improvements in the Budget Process. In order to make all public funds subject to the
same regulations, controls, and standards of accountability, the Budget Law needs to be amended
in order to: (i) fully reflect activities of the three Government agencies-Croatian Privatization
Fund, Agency for Bank Rehabilitation, and Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
Development-that have a bearing on the Government's fiscal position and include all extra-
budgetary funds in the budget; (ii) introduce an explicit multi-year budgetary framework to
improve financial decision-making; and (iii) adopt modified accrual (commitment-based)
accounting and budgeting.
38.    In order to provide a complete picture of government resources and control the potential
over-commitment of funds, the following policy actions are necessary: (i) bringing all sources of
revenue and expenditures on-budget, under which Ministries and Government agencies will be
allowed to retain own-revenues for their use, but own-revenues will be included in budget
submissions and will be subject to the same controls as other public funds; and (ii) adopting the
annual Budget Execution Law for 2002 fiscal year to increase and strengthen the enforcement of
penalties for over-spending budgeted resources and violation of the Budget Law.
39.    Making  Subsides  Transparent  and  Reducing  Subsidies  Economy-wide.  The
Government is committed to reduce the actual amount of direct subsidies in the economy. To
this end, the governnent will eliminate the use of non-transparent, indirect subsidies which,
13



often in the past took the form of: Government waivers for the obligation of selected enterprises
to the social security funds; tax offsets and concessions; and debt-equity swaps. As a recent
member of the WTO, the Government already respects the WTO agreement on Subsidies and
Countervailing Measures in the sphere of foreign trade and intends to rely on the principles of
this agreement in its efforts to reduce subsidies economy-wide. Under the guidance of the
principles of this agreement, the following policy actions will be implemented: (i) undertaking an
assessment that will compile in detail all subsidies-both indirect and direct-currently in place;
(ii) preparation of an action plan to reduce direct subsidies and make any remaining indirect
subsidies transparent with a view to ensure fiscal sustainability and eliminate distortions; and
(iii) implement the action plan.
40.   Monitoring Government Guarantees. Instilling greater fiscal discipline entails, inter
alia, development and introduction of a monitoring system for government guarantees and lease
contracts. This will require: (i) preparing a report on government guarantees and other
contingent liabilities, listing outstanding guarantees by type and by maturity, providing the
probable cost of each liability if called, identifying those liabilities called over the previous two
years and their treatment in the public accounts, and indicating what appropriation, if any, is
envisaged in the budget for contingent liabilities; (ii) identifying criteria for requesting treasury
guarantees in the annual budget law or, possibly, in separate legislation; and (iii) setting limits on
the overall stock of outstanding government guarantees and on their annual net issuance.
41.   Health Care System.  A number of structural reform measures, including use of
alternative care settings, different primary care models, and improved hospital management
practices, are being piloted in Koprivnica with World Bank support. A planned third investment
project for health could support national roll-out of the lessons from Koprivnica. The SAL-
supported agenda in the sector is therefore part of a broader involvement in health, and the areas
of focus are those which are more amenable support under policy-based lending. The key
measures that will be supported under the SAL are:
*  Adoption of regulations for revised co-payment schedules for drugs and selected services.
On drugs, this would increase incentives for use of generics. For services, the new co-
payment schedules would be derived from an exclusionary basic package approach being
developed by MOH;
*  Reduction in exemptions on co-payments. This can be done through revision of health
legislation, and the draft law submitted to Parliament represents a major reduction on the
scope of exemptions, while continuing protection for core groups such as children, the poor,
and the disabled;
*  Adoption of a methodology for prioritizing health service delivery and input purchases. The
basic exclusionary package is part of this;
*  Amendment to sick pay entitlements, reducing the replacement rate, capping paid sick leave
at six months in all but exceptional cases, and improving assessment and oversight
procedures for extended sick leaves. There would also need to be close monitoring of the
disability system, to ensure that abuse by firms was not merely transferred from the sick pay
to the disability system, which is already vulnerable to increased claimant numbers.
14



42.   Pensions. With respect to funded pensions, the key steps recently taken or needed to
accelerate preparation for multi-pillar pensions are:
*  Approval by Parliament of the Statute of the Agency for supervision of private pensions,
which was passed in May 2001. This will be the key institution for defining the rules of the
game in funded pensions. Approval of the Statute has accelerated the process of developing
accreditation and licensing procedures for fund managers, and initial licensing has now taken
place;
*  Issuing a Government decree which outlines an agreed vision for rollout of consolidated tax
and contribution collection, in particular outlining the roles and responsibilities of key
agencies, including REGOS, the tax administration, extra-budgetary fumds, and ZAP. This
key step was taken in September 2001;
*  The decree would lead to accelerated preparation for the second pillar and consolidation of
revenue and data collection for all payroll taxes and contributions. An indicator of progress
would be design and approval of new unified revenue collection form and gradual phasing
out of the current fragmented parallel reporting through the EBFs.
43.   With respect to the PAYGO system, the Government intends to undertake further
adjustments, with the aim of improving financial balance. The key measures to be taken are:
*  Amending the relevant legislation in order to levy contributions on non-wage labor income.
The objective here is to broaden the base for contributions in order to bring them more in line
with entitlements, and to increase the fiscal sustainability of the system;
*  Amending the Pension Insurance Law in order to: (i) reduce the minimum pension accrual
rate from the current level to one more consistent with actuarial principles; (ii) introduce the
same annual decrement for early retirees on the minimum pension as exists for other
pensioners; (iii) increase compliance by basing pension accruals only on paid contributions.
How far adjustment on the entitlement side are needed will depend on the scope of progress
in including non-wage labor income, with more substantial progress on the revenue side
diminishing the scale of entitlement reductions needed to improve fiscal balance.
*  Not increase the personal income tax deductible for pensioners in order to put them in closer
to a comparable position with the rest of the population.
*  Enforcing PI divestiture of management of its asset portfolio to the CPF or its successor, and
ensuring that assets are divested and do not revert to the PI.
44.   Finally, the Government intends to undertake further analytical work to assess
appropriate adjustments in the early retirement regime. This would include reviewing the
appropriate annual decrement for early retirement in the first pillar to achieve an actuarially
neutral adjustment, reviewing the qualification period for early retirement, and rationalizing
existing special early retirement provisions.
15



B.3. Strengthening Market Institutions and the Competitiveness of the Economy
Context
45.   The Croatian enterprise sector started the reform  process in 1991 with significant
handicaps: the break-up of Yugoslavia, with the consequent loss of a major part of its formner
markets; and war. These initial conditions made Croatia's private sector development and
restructuring of public enterprises more complex than in other transition countries. In addition,
Croatia has, since its independence, not benefited from large foreign aid programs like other
Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries, which have contributed much to foster enterprise
reform through technical assistance and training to implement market reforms.
46.   Ten years later, Croatia's performance in terms of enterprise restructuring, privatization,
new business development, attraction of foreign direct investment, and overall creation of an
enabling environment for development of an internationally competitive enterprise sector, are
disappointing-putting Croatia largely behind most countries of the region. The slowness of
Croatian enterprise reform is only in part due to the initial handicaps that confronted the country
at the start of its transition. It is also rooted in the fact that basic market institutions for a
competitive private enterprise sector have not been fully established and some major policy
distortions have not been corrected.
47.   As a result of these nascent institutions and distortions, the conduct, structure and
performance of business transactions, investment decisions and real sector resource allocation in
Croatia are being conditioned by a set of weak market-oriented incentives, or at worst
disincentives, undermining the competitiveness of the economy. 12
48.   Restructuring of Croatian enterprises-whether in terms of in-depth financial workouts
with   creditors,  settling   arrears   and   non-payments,  drastic   downsizing   and/or
closure/bankruptcy-has not been comprehensive, intensive nor timely. A consequence of the
insufficient restructuring of the enterprise sector is its decapitalization and fall into obsolescence.
Many Croatian enterprises have not been investing enough in modernizing their plants, primarily
because of inadequate cash generation from operations, nor compensated by new equity
investments by outsiders. The lack of restructuring is the root problem of the poor financial
performance of Croatian industry. It is illustrated by a net loss of HRK 8.2 billion in 1999
(roughly 5.8% of GDP) and a growing problem of illiquidity, with a ballooning volume of
enterprise arrears and a number of enterprises/legal entities delinquent on their payments
exceeding 32,00013. The situation improved in 2000: net loss were around 0.8 bill (or 0.5
percent of GDP), while total enterprise arrears declined by 7 billion HRK.
12 The Bank has been supporting Croatia to help resolve these problems through the Enterprise and Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), which was approved in May 1997. The proposed SAL builds upon and
complements the exiting EFSAL. See Section V for the status of implementation of the second of two tranches of
the EFSAL.
13 The number of enterprises with their gyro-accounts blocked in ZAP has shot up from about 11,000 in 1995 to
more than 30,000 in 1999.
16



49.   Hardening budget constraints on incumbent enterprises is vital to help reduce the
distortions engendered by non-payments, barter and subsidies-especially in public enterprises.
In this way, hardening budget constraints helps to induce restructuring, free resources bottled-up
in nonviable firms that can be reallocated to more productive uses, and create economic space for
new entry. Yet as in other transition economies, in Croatia, often enterprise managers, creditors,
unions and other stakeholders-and especially the government-are reluctant to have an
enterprise implement the sometimes severe restructuring actions that are needed. The example
of the poor payment record by the State of its dues to enterprises, has resulted in a widespread
lack of payment discipline. The consequences have been a fast growing mass of enterprise
arrears and thus a severe liquidity crisis. This has in turn contributed to a shift toward barter
payments between many enterprises in lieu of cash. In this regard, in Croatia there is a critical
role to be played by accelerating reform of the key public enterprises in terms of eliminating
arrears, making payments and requiring sales in cash and on time, and increasing financial
transparency to help lead the way for further enterprise restructuring economy-wide. The
government-as shareholder, input purchaser and output consumer-recognizes that it must alter
its practices in these regards if such reforms are to be credible for the private sector to enhance
its own performance and managerial accountability.
50.   Paradoxically, despite the loss of profitability of many Croatian enterprises-and their
illiquidity or insolvency-the overall number of enterprises that have entered
bankruptcy/liquidation, is very low. The total of about 600 cases of bankruptcies per year is
low compared to a population of enterprises exceeding 60,000 (existing private enterprises and
former SOEs) -- and is abnormally small compared to other countries in transition. Although a
modem  bankruptcy law was adopted in 1996 and anendments were passed in 2000, the
bankruptcy system in Croatia does not function in a satisfactory manner. This reason for this is
largely an inadequate institutional capacity of the commercial court system to handle
bankruptcies expeditiously and efficiently. Reforms are needed to address: outdated court and
case management; inexperience of commercial judges, trustees and receivers in the modern
bankruptcy regime; lack of knowledge by creditors of their rights; inadequate trust by businesses
in the bankruptcy process, which is perceived as protecting creditors rather than as a way of
reallocating assets to more productive uses; and lack of confidence by the population in the
efficiency of the overall judiciary system. 14
51.   More generally, it has become evident that the judiciary in Croatia is not able to cope
with new functions and a fast growing load and complexity of commercial dispute cases that
have come with the transition to the market. Understaffed commercial courts with highly
centralized inflexible management do not allow for quick and adequate responses to the
necessity of the market, and the capacity to enforce judgments is insufficient. The poor quality
of judicial services manifests itself in excessive delays, unpredictable procedures and rulings,
weak enforcement and reported corruption. This calls for institutional strengthening in the
commercial court regime.
52.   The business environment for enterprises is poor also because of government
interference, which often occurs in a non-transparent way-allegedly involving corruption.
14 In combination with the proposed SAL, the objective of the proposed Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) for
the Bankruptcy Administration Project is to start addressing some of these problems.
17



Government interference is not limited to actions and influences at the central level, but also-
and increasingly so-at the level of local governments, including county and municipal
authorities, not only through taxation, but also in granting licenses, concessions, rights of
purchase or use of local assets, etc. There are allegations of criminal misconduct by government
officials, enterprise managers and others that have generally failed to be prosecuted. The lack of
accountability for such conduct undermines the credibility of the enterprise sector and the rule of
law in the country.
53.   The implementation of competition policy has been critically weak in Croatia, as the
agency that was established to enforce it started barely three years ago. It has a staff without
much experience and information/resource base about the economy, and it has limited political
and budgetary support. A strong agency of its kind is essential as many existing Croatian
enterprises have tried to preserve-or enlarge through mergers or predatory conduct-their
monopolistic or excessively strong, dominant position in the market, and groups of enterprises
have managed to set up cartels. The result is that the current institutional framework governing
competition policy in Croatia-exacerbated by very poor inter-agency coordination on
developing and enforcing competition policy-is preventing the economy from benefiting fully
from the advantages of competitive restructuring of dominant incumbent firms, new business
entry and investment. Consumers are not fully enjoying competitively priced, high quality
products and services. These problems pertain not only to the manufacturing sector, but also to
the utility industries, which have been exempt from oversight by the competition agency.
54.   Conditions in Croatia for new business entrants, including a dynamic SME sector, are
not very hospitable. Like other transition countries, Croatia inherited from the previous system a
preponderance of large enterprise and a business culture which emphasized economies of scale,
mass production, vertical integration and self-sufficiency (in-house production instead of
subcontracting/outsourcing).  SMEs-and new business entrants more generally-offer the
promise to generate competition (fostering restructuring of large, inefficient incumbent firms),
expand employment, increase exports and introduce new technologies. The emergence and
development of SMEs has been stifled by, among other problems: difficulties and complexities
in business licensing and registration; finding financing at reasonable terms; and lack of a well-
coordinated and articulated pro-SME policy in the country.
55.   In many parts of Croatia, investors, businesses and individual entrepreneurs have been
facing difficulties in exercising property rights. More broadly, the corporate governance
framework-especially as regards disclosure of securities trades, enforcement of minority
shareholder rights, and rules for depositories-needs further strengthening. Lack of clear
ownership titles is also a concern. Uncertainty regarding actual ownership and lack of proper
titles is an obstacle for businesses in terms of proper use/disposition/purchase of assets. In
addition it prevents businesses from accessing financing at attractive terms and conditions from
the banking sector, that could have been secured through collateral on well-recognized property.
56.   Foreign Direct Investment in Croatia since independence has reached only US$ 4.8
billion. This level of investment compares poorly with that of other countries in the region,
(e.g., Hungary has received US$17.5 billion). FDI in Croatia typically consists of equity
investments in existing companies, but very little investment embodied in greenfield projects.
18



Most investments have been made through the privatization process of SOEs. By failing to
attract sufficient FDI, the country is losing on all the advantages such investment brings in terms
of restructuring, modernizing and development of the real sector. Various tax concession and
preferential schemes are of dubious value, and worse, are breeding grounds for corruption. In
part, reform of the FDI policy regime in Croatia should include reducing sectoral limitations or
prohibitions on FDI in the country, and phasing out preferential regimes. Moreover, reforms
need to focus on reducing the various administrative impediments domestic and foreign investors
face, including arduous registering procedures, visa and work permit restrictions, barriers to
utility hook-ups, poor coordination among relevant agencies at the central and sub-central levels,
and access to construction permits.
Reform Objectives and SAL Measures
57.   Transparency and Fiscal Accountability of Key Public Enterprises. The government
will undertake several measures in order to improve the transparency and fiscal accountability of
key public enterprises and to reduce their and the Government's arrears and non-payments.
First, a Decision will be issued to require the publication in the Official Gazette of the quarterly
financial accounts, prepared according to International Accounting Standards (IAS), of the ten
largest public enterprises: (i) [NA, (ii) HEP, (iii) Postal Service, (iv) Shipping Company, (v)
Railway, (vi) Telecom, (vii) Forest, (viii) Lighthouse, (ix) Insurance and (x) Official Gazette as
well as three Government agencies: (xi) Croatia Privatization Fund; (xii) Agency for Bank
Rehabilitation; and (xiii) Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Decision will
also stipulate that the corresponding annual financial accounts will be audited and published by
independent auditors according to International Standards of Auditing (ISA).
58.   Second, the Government, through its shareholder positions in those ten enterprises will
ensure that these enterprises' accounts receivable and payable with respect to all enterprises and
Government agencies/institutions are kept current under the contract terms and settled through
cash mechanisms. Moreover, the Government will ensure that there are no legal or regulatory
obstacles for the curtailment of services or termination of supply to individuals and institutional
consumers who default in their cash payments to these enterprises.
59.   Finally, the Government and its related agencies will maintain their accounts payable to
these enterprises such that they are current under the contract terms; ensure that all Government
purchases from these enterprises are paid for through cash mechanisms, and settle fully in cash
all arrears with these enterprises. To record transparently that such performance is being adhered
to, the Government will publish in the Official Gazette a quarterly report on its payables to and
receivables from these ten enterprises.
60.   Strengthen the Bankruptcy Process.  In order to strengthen creditors' rights and
facilitate the bankruptcy process to foster more competitive restructuring of businesses, the
Government will accelerate all actions under its control to facilitate that the state's interests as
creditor are pursued fully and vigorously in accordance with the bankruptcy law, including
bringing to closure its existing 321 insolvency cases. In order to make the legal framework for
the bankruptcy process more efficient and strengthen the institutional capacity for bankruptcy
proceedings, amendments to the bankruptcy law and other applicable laws will be made to
enlarge the institutional capacity for processing bankruptcy cases. In addition, a Law on
19



Receivership and Trustees will be enacted and other relevant measures will be implemented to
establish a process for certification of bankruptcy trustees in line with international standards,
with respect to responsibilities and duties, professional standards, selection procedures,
performance monitoring appraisal, pay, disciplining and disqualification.
61.   Enhance Settlement of Commercial Disputes and Combat Corruption. In order to
provide for greater opportunities for businesses to settle commercial disputes more efficiently, a
Law on Arbitration, which provides for the Arbitration Court to serve as a new permanent
independent alternative dispute resolution mechanism, will be enacted. In addition, to foster
more efficient enforcement of commercial dispute decisions, new measures will be implemented
to enhance the professionalism of and enlarge the bailiff service. A Law on Anti-Corruption and
Organized Crime will be enacted, which will amend the criminal code (and other relevant laws)
to strengthen penalties for corruption and combat organized crime and establish a new Anti-
Corruption office in the State Attorney's office.
62.   Strengthen Competition Policy Enforcement. The Government will undertake several
measures that strengthen substantially the financial and human resources, political status, and
legal enforcement powers of the Agency for the Protection of Market Competition (APMC).
First, the Law on the Protection of Market Competition will be substantially modified so as to
harnonize it with EU competition law standards. Second, in order to improve the oversight
functions of the APMC and enhance the agency's ability to coordinate enforcement of
competition policy on an inter-agency basis, the Government will implement measures to require
that before any government department/agency issues proposed legislation, proposed regulation
or otherwise proposes to take any major policy action that may significantly reduce competition
in the Croatian economy, the department/agency must (i) make an assessment of the cost and
benefits of the proposed action's of the impact on competition and (ii) obtain the legal opinion of
the APMC. Third, the APMC will promulgate new merger notification guidelines, consistent
with international practice, that establish well-defined policy parameters for distinguishing
between pro-competitive and anti-competitive mergers and acquisitions and for controlling
economic concentration. Fourth, the APMC will carry out and publish a comprehensive report
that empirically assesses concentration and barriers to entry in manufacturing and infrastructure
utility markets, including the effects of such market structures on competitive performance.
63.   Foster New Entry and SME Development. The Government will implement several
measures to remove barriers at the Central and regional levels to the creation of new business
entities. To facilitate the company registration and licensing process, new streamlined rules-
based, fixed fee company registration and licensing procedures will be established. In addition,
there will be a substantially reduce list of activities for which business licenses are required. To
ensure special attention is given to improving the policy environment for establishment of SMEs,
a Law On Small and Medium Enterprises that will codify uniform criteria for defining the SME
sector will be enacted. In addition, in order to facilitate financing of the smallest businesses
(microenterprises), a legal and regulatory framework to facilitate provision of micro credit by
non-governmental organizations will be established. At the same time, the government will
rationalize the structure and implementation of all existing government credit lines for SME
development to make them more efficient and market-oriented; the credit lines will be phased
out by 2005.
20



64.   Corporate Governance and Property Rights. To strengthen corporate governance
incentives amendments will be enacted to the Law on Securities Issuance and Trade so as to
harmonize the law with proposals and instructions of the International Organization of Securities
Commissions, as well as with the European Union directives. In so doing the law will provide
for greater enforcement authority of CROSEC with regard to imposing substantial penalties on
securities dealers who violate investors' rights, making more effective the oversight of brokerage
houses, strengthening disclosure requirements, and devising rules for depositories. Moreover,
amendments will be enacted to the Company Law and the Law on Takeover Procedure of Joint
Stock Companies to strengthen minority shareholders' rights, enable more transparent securities
trade, facilitate joint stock companies to quote their stocks on the stock markets and harmonize
corporate governance practices with EU rules.
65.   Reduce Barriers to Domestic and Foreign Direct Investment.  The Government
recognizes that worldwide competition for direct investment is increasingly intense and is thus
committed to implementing an action plan that improves Croatia's FDI and domestic investment
policy regime by bringing the fiscal, regulatory and legal policy framework in line with best
international practice. Several measures will be implemented to this end. First, legislation and
other measures will be enacted to simplify the administrative procedures relating to investor
entry and expatriate employment; shorten the overall time required to process visas and work
permits and extend their duration; require publication of a single, comprehensive guide to
immigration procedures for investors and expatriate employees; simplify construction-related
permits; prepare subnational guides for construction-related procedures; accelerate utility
connections; introduce mechanisms to facilitate coordination among the relevant government
agencies, and between them and the investor community; and prepare comprehensive official
guides to investment procedures and legislation at the national and subnational levels.
66.   Second, legislation and other measures will be enacted to substantially reduce over a
phased period in a time-bound program both (i) the number of sectors where FDI is presently
prohibited and (ii) the number and incidence of existing limitations on FDI in sectors where it is
permitted but restricted. These measures will cover not only manufacturing sectors but also the
infrastructure and services sectors.
67.   Finally, the government will refrain from creating, and will not support legislative
initiatives for establishing, new preferential direct investment measures, including policies in the
areas of taxation, customs duties, among other instruments.
B.4. Enhancing Flexibility in the Labor Market
Context
68.   The Croatian labor market is currently severely depressed. Unemployment is high-over
17 percent of the labor force-and growing. Planned mass lay-offs in the public sector
(estimated at some 10 thousand workers) will further exacerbate the labor market situation. The
unemployment pool is stagnant, meaning that most of the unemployed have poor chances to find
a job. Job search duration tends to be long, and the incidence of long-term unemployment,
21



which is socially the most costly form of unemployment is high.  Over 50 percent of all
unemployed are jobless for more than one year. Unemployment is concentrated arnong low
productivity workers: those with poor education and low skills, and young workers with no or
little labor market experience. Unemployment hits equally men and women. However, the job
prospects of young (less than 25 years of age) women are particularly startling: close to 40
percent of them are jobless.
69.   Many workers have become discouraged by the futility of their job search effort and have
withdrawn from the labor force. As a consequence the employment rate, i.e. the percentage of
working age population which is employed is low in Croatia. Out of 100 persons of working age
only 43 are working. By comparison, in Poland-a transition economy with similar level of
unemployment-the employment rate is significantly higher (48 percent). The low employment
rate in Croatia implies both individual hardship in terns of low incomes as well as a societal loss
in terms of lower GDP level. In other words, the under-utilization of labor resources in Croatia
is associated with substantial welfare costs.
70.   Major causes of high unemployment in Croatia include high labor costs, stringent
employment protection legislation, and an underdeveloped SMEs sector. High labor costs reflect
relatively high wage level given Croatia's level of GDP (wages in Croatia are higher than in
most of transition economies of CEE), high payroll taxes, and some worker benefits. Strict
employment protection legislation discourages hiring, lowers the chances to escape
unemployment, and hampers job creation. Finally, an underdeveloped SMEs sector and barriers
to entry by new firms results in slow employment growth, as business start-ups and SMEs tend
to account for the bulk of newly created jobs.
71.   Another dimension of the poor performance of the labor market in Croatia is its low
capacity to adjust to supply and demand shocks.  Employers find it difficult to adjust the size
and composition of their workforce to the changing market conditions due to strict employment
regulations. Lay-offs are costly and difficult to carry through. High dismissal costs discourage
hiring as employers are reluctant to increase the size of their workforce in the period of economic
upturn if they know it will be costly to downsize in the period of downturn. Furthermore,
flexible employment forms (e.g. fixed-term contracts) are limited due to legal restrictions on
their use. Consequently, high labor turnover costs inhibit job creation and negatively affects the
pace of industrial restructuring.
72.   The wage structure is compressed, especially in the still sizeable public sector. This
hampers the creation of low-end jobs, and contributes to unemployment among the low-
productivity workers, who cannot price themselves into the labor market. Moreover, the wage
setting in the public sector is dominated by insiders, resulting in wages above the market clearing
level, and significantly higher (on average) than in the more competitive private sector. This
wage premium for public sector employment inhibits the development of the private sector and,
in consequence, the necessary reallocation of labor toward the most productive uses.
73.   The reflection of the distortions present in the formal labor market-high taxes and
excessive regulation of the employment relations-is a large size of the informal economy.
22



74.   The Government tries to alleviate the hardship associated with unemployment by
providing income support to the unemployed as well as by providing some basic employment
services. However, the unemployment benefit system reaches only a minority of unemployed
(about one third), and a the same time some of the provisions are fiscally unsustainable and
produce perverse labor supply incentives (e.g. an indefinite duration benefit for workers with
long employment record). Public employment services are limited due to fiscal constraints,
while private employment services are virtually nonexistent due to legal restrictions.
75.   The primary source of informnation on labor market developments is the Labor Force
Survey, carried out twice a year. However, the results are published with a long delay (5
months) and as a result current information on labor markets is not available. This is of
particular concern during the period of swift and profound changes. More up-to-date and also
more comprehensive information is necessary to tailor labor market policies to the changing
economic environment.
76.   Recognizing the need to reform the labor market in order to improve its adjustment
capacity the government has recently undertaken an overhaul of labor regulations. In particular,
the government intends to meet two objectives: (a) to harmonize labor related regulations with
EU norms and standards, and (b) to improve labor market flexibility in order to foster job
creation and promote employment growth. To his end, the government has prepared a revised
version of the Employment Law, which inter alia aims at improving employment services by
allowing private provision and competition among service providers, and at improving labor
supply incentives through the tightening of the unemployment benefit scheme. At the same time
the government has initiated the revision of the Labor Law aimed at reducing labor costs, and
introducing flexible forms of employment.
Reform Objectives and SAL Measures
77.   The labor market in Croatia will have to become more flexible to accommodate needed
structural change. To this end, the reforn program aims to: (i) promote labor market flexibility
through modifying the legislative framework; (ii) make income support for the unemployed more
cost-effective while mitigating the adverse consequences of enterprise restructuring; (iii)
improve employment services to facilitate labor redeployment; and (iv) improve labor market
information system to monitor the effects of adjustment on the displaced workers.
78.   Labor Market Flexibility. In order to promote labor market flexibility the Government
will review and revise the Labor Law to ensure its better compatibility with the needs of a
competitive market economy. In particular, the Government intends to (i) lower dismissal costs,
(ii) increase the scope of flexible employment contracts, (iii) lower some non-cash work related
benefits.
79.   Dismissal costs will be lowered through: (a) easing preconditions for valid dismissal,
such as the requirement that the employer attempts reassignment or retraining before a worker
can be declared redundant; (b) relaxing the definition of a mass-lay off so that it refers the
dismissal of no less than 20 workers; (c) shortening the advanced notice period to a maximum of
23



three months , (d) reducing severance pay by applying a revised formula with the ceiling set at
six monthly salaries.
80.   Flexible employment contracts will be promoted through removing the provision
whereby fixed-term contracts can be made only on an exceptional basis and require a valid
reason.
81.   Non-cash benefits will be limited by reducing the duration of the maternity leave after
which the employer is obliged to readmit the worker to 12 months. This measure is aimed
against the discrimination against women in hiring, and should thus improve employment
prospects of young women.
82.  Income Support for the Unemployed. In order to make income support for the
unemployed more cost-effective the Government intends to rationalizes the unemployment
benefit system by redesigning programs that in the current form are fiscally unsustainable. To
this end the Government will (a) revise regulations governing unemployment benefit for persons
with long years of service; and (b) assess fiscal implications and feasibility of some of the
proposed amendments to the Employment Law, especially regarding the extension of the
unemployment benefit coverage, and the amount of earnings which is allowed to be combined
with unemployment benefit receipt.
83.   The Government will limit the eligibility for open-ended unemployment benefit for
persons with long years of service. The Government will submit to the Parliament draft
amendments to the Employment Law, which will raise the length of employment necessary to
qualify for open-ended unemployment benefit by five years-i.e. to 35 and 30) years of
employment for men and women., respectively. This will improve labor market incentives while
providing necessary safety net for the unemployed close to the retirement age.
84.   The Government will revise its plans to extend the coverage of and eligibility to
unemployment benefit to additional groups, such the self-employed, workers working abroad,
workers with short contribution record, etc., and refrain from the planned extension since it
would entail a significant increase in spending on unemployment benefit, and the increase in
registered unemployment
85.   Employment Services. The improvement of employment services will be achieved
through programs including: (a) the improvement of the quality and enhancement of the scope of
employment services provided by public Employment Offices, (b) the development of private
employment services.
86.   Public employment services will be improved by providing resources necessary to expand
the capacity of Employment Offices to provide high quality services to the unemployed,
including job matching, job search assistance, job counseling and training referral. The capacity
building will involve (i) staff training, (ii) the improvement of the existing labor market
information system (e.g. data on the profile of labor demand), (iii) computerization of the
Employment Offices network
24



87.   Private employment services will be encouraged and the existing legal barriers to their
functioning will be removed. Specifically, the Government will submit to the Parliament the
draft amendments to the Employment Law that will lift existing restrictions on the delivery of
private employment services and will actively seek enactment of the legislation.
88.   Labor Market Information. The Government will expand labor market monitoring by
putting in place a survey of economic and labor market conditions in order to prepare
projections on changes in employment and unemployment. which will be used by Employment
Offices. The Government in collaboration with the Croatian Employment Services and the
Croatian Bureau of Statistics will explore possible ways of collecting necessary information and
will prepare terms of reference for a labor market monitoring study.
89.   In addition, the Croatian Bureau of Statistics will undertake necessary steps to ensure
timely release of key labor market indicators, and in particular will ensure that the main results
of the bi-annual Labor Force Survey are released no later than 3 months after data collection is
completed.
B. 5. Strengthening Social Protection
Context
90.   Croatia has a wide-ranging system of social transfers targeted at groups that are needy or
deserving in some other way. However, despite relatively high levels of spending (5.4 percent of
GDP in 1999,15 the system fails to provide protection to the most vulnerable members of society.
This is because substantial resources are allocated to programs which are not explicitly targeted
at the poor. The few programs that are well-targeted do not receive much funding. As a result,
Croatia has an expensive but fairly ineffective system of social protection.
91.   To compound matters, social benefits and benefits policy are distributed among several
Ministries and agencies.16 While the expansion of programs is understandable in the light of the
special circumstances faced by Croatia in the 1990s, the accompanying fragmentation is an
obstacle to coordinated policy making and prioritization of public expenditures, especially as
special needs recede.
92.   The main program of social assistance in Croatia-the regular support allowance-is a
well targeted program, with around 50 percent of all spending going to the bottom 20 percent of
the population. This is a reflection of the relatively strong capacity to administer targeted social
assistance that exists in the network of Centers for Social Welfare. Some of the targeting success
may also be owed to self-selection among beneficiaries as the eligibility threshold is low (400
'5 Social protection spending as discussed in this report includes expenditure on social assistance, maternity and
youth, refugees and expelled persons, war veterans and war invalids (current expenditures only), and local social
assistance (current spending only).
16 For example, cash benefits of different kinds are paid by several agencies within the Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare (Centers for Social Welfare, the Office of Refugees and Displaced Persons, and the Institute for the
Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth), the Ministry for Homeland War Veterans as well as local
governments.
25



HRK per capita per month) and is raised intermittently (e.g. the threshold had been held at 350K
for over two years before being raised to 400K in 2001). Despite its overall quality, spending on
this program remains low (0.2 percent of GDP in 1999), and since December 2000 until March
2001 the program was even in arrears.
93.   In addition to support allowances, the Centers for Social Welfare administer a number of
other benefits (e.g. one-time assistance, supplements for assistance and care etc.). The overall
cost of these benefits amounted to 0.27 percent of GDP in 1999 . There is less information on
the targeting efficiency of these additional allowances, some of which have eligibility thresholds
which are higher than for support allowances. A further cause for concern is that the multiplicity
of benefits adds to administrative costs and overall system complexity without achieving much
by way of poverty impact..
94.   The other main program of social transfers in Croatia is child allowances. Spending on
child allowances was 0.76 percent in 1999. Traditionally a contributory benefit, child allowances
are now funded out of general budget revenues. In terms of targeting efficiency child allowances
are broadly neutral with the bottom 20 percent of the population receiving roughty the same
proportion of spending. However, starting from November 2000, coverage of these allowances
has been expanded to include children of unemployed parents, and farmer and craftsmen
households. As these groups are at a higher risk of poverty, it is likely these changes have
enhanced the targeting efficiency of the program. In September 2001, a new Child Benefit Law
was adopted by the Government as a part of its social spending reform, which proposes to: lower
the income-threshold for child allowances, reduce exemptions from means-testing (e.g. for
certain war veterans), lower the duration of entitlement, lower the allowance for third child and
higher birth-order children, and improve the coordination between social assistance and child
allowances. These measures are likely both to reduce the generosity and improve the targeting
of child allowances. Further analysis will be needed to confirm the impact of the changes as
enacted by Parliament on the efficiency and effectiveness of the program. More broadly, the
Government will need to examine the relative merits of the revised child allowance program in
reducing poverty compared to regular support allowances, and consider the efficiency of having
two separate programs rather than one.
95.   War veterans and their families benefit from a number of special benefits and privileges,
including special pension rights, generous child allowances, unemployment benefits. preference
in public sector employment, housing rights, rights to shares in privatized companies, special
rights related to education, and customs and tax privileges to name just a few. In addition, injury
or disability arising from war entitles one to additional benefits and allowances. Expenditure on
these benefits has been steadily increasing, and stood at 1.4 percent of GDP in 1999 (excluding
transfers received from Bosnia and Herzegovina).  The targeting efficiency of these benefits is
surmised to be low. The Government is committed to limiting these benefits and has made a
start by limiting privileges relating to the right to import a personal vehicle free of all taxes once
in five years, and proposing to remove certain exemptions to means-testing for child allowances.
96.   One important dimension of the system of social protection in Croatia is the provision of
social services such as general social care (including assistance and advice to those in need),
family services (including marriage counseling, advice on separation and divorce, and custodial
26



services), guardianship services (including fostering, adoption, and other forms of care of
children), the handling of delinquency, and assistance to the mentally and physically disabled.
Among transition economies, social services of this nature are unique to the successor states of
former Yugoslavia. Although they have a limited role in reducing poverty (or income poverty)
as it is generally understood, these services have an important role to play in addressing other
forms of deprivation, and in maintaining the overall social fabric. While there is much that is
commendable, there is still a lot to be achieved in terms of interaction with civil society
groups/NGOs in social service provision. In addition, as in much of Eastern Europe, Croatia has
a legacy of institutionalized populations, many of whom can be better taken care of by and in the
community.
97.   Finally, the capacity to monitor poverty, and social development more broadly defined, is
limited in Croatia. This is related in part to the fact that between 1991 and 1998 there was no
representative household budget survey in Croatia. Although the survey resumed, and since
2000 covers the whole territory of the country, the sample frame relates to be before the war.
The Census at the end of March 2001 will however provide the basis for an up-to-date sample
frame. In addition to poverty, there is limited information on other social indicators (enrollment
rates, access to housing or public services etc.) at the regional and local level that are relevant to
disaggregated policy making.
Reform Objectives and SAL Measures
98.   As the above discussion suggests, although spending on social benefits in Croatia is high,
it has a limited impact on poverty. This is because policy-making is fragmented and resources
are allocated to programs which make limited transfers to the poor. The bulk of resources are
channeled towards programs which are neutral in impact, or whose impact (although not
evaluated to date) cannot be surmised to be particularly pro-poor. In the area of social services,
there is the further issue of little community involvement in service delivery. Policy making is
also hampered by the inability to monitor reductions in poverty, and to monitor and evaluate the
impact of social programs. On a more general level, there is a lack of information on a broad
range of social indictors, particularly at the sub-national level.
99.   In light of the above, the reform program under the SAL contains four key objectives: (i)
ensuring a more coordinated approach to benefits, and changes in benefits policy (particularly in
the structure and level of entitlements); (ii) re-allocation of resources towards programs that are
well-targeted; (iii) in the area of social services, more community-based social service delivery
on grounds of both cost and quality; and (iv) improvements in the information base on which to
monitor poverty reduction and the impact of policy changes.
100.  National Strategy for Poverty Reduction. The GOC recognizes the need for a more
coordinated approach in the area of social benefits and poverty reduction. To this end, it will
prepare a National Program for the Reduction of Poverty during 2001. In addition to a
discussion of poverty, the strategy paper will collate and review all social transfer expenditures
in Croatia with a view to assessing their efficiency and effectiveness in reducing poverty. The
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare will take the lead in developing this program, with inputs
from a number of other Ministries including Finance, Economy, Education and Sport, Health,
27



Crafts and SMEs, Justice, and Works, Reconstruction and Construction, and the Office for
Cooperation with NGOs. The document will articulate a coordinated strategy across the range of
government agencies to reduce poverty.
101.  Improving poverty-monitoring.  The GOC has already taken steps to improve the
availability of reliable and representative household survey data. In particular, since January
2001, the household Budget Survey (HBS) has been expanded to cover the entire country.
However, as is well-recognized, the sample frame dates from before the war and is subject to
numerous shortcomings. The GOC will use the national census, which was carried out in April
2001 to update the sample frame and create a reliable basis for policy-relevant data analysis.
102.  The GOC is aware that there is also the need to improve the capacity to collect and
produce social statistics, including social indicators by region. It will prepare an action plan
identifying necessary investments, including technical assistance, that are needed to upgrade
capacity within the Croatian Bureau of Statistics to accomplish this task. To ensure that the plan
is fully implemented, the GOC will make adequate provisions for this task in the budget.
103.  Improving targeting and effectiveness of social assistance.  In the area of social
assistance, the GOC will simplify the number of benefits and improving targeting. It will ensure
that regular support allowances, the best targeted benefit, are paid regularly. In addition, it will:
(i) assess the targeting effectiveness of the other allowances and benefits paid out by the Centers
for Social Welfare and (ii) prepare an action plan for the reduction in or the elimination of those
benefits which are poorly targeted.
104. Improving the targeting and effectiveness of other allowances. The GOC will also
look more broadly beyond social assistance at other social transfers. In particular, it will examine
the impact of changes to the child allowance program on its efficiency and effectiveness..
Following that, it will prepare an action plan of measures to enhance the targeting efficiency of
resources currently spent on child allowances. Furthermore, the GOC will further rationalize
benefits aimed at war veterans and war invalids by harmonizing their tax allowances with that of
the rest of the population
105.  Strengthening community based social services. Finally, the GOC will make attempts
to increase the involvement of NGOs and other civil society groups in the delivery of social
services. It will develop a strategy for a national system of community based social services.
As a part of this effort, it will develop service standards, mechanisms for contracting, and pro-
forma service agreements for service delivery by NGOs. These procedures will be piloted in
selected regions in 2002.
IV. MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
106.  Croatia's medium-term economic prospects are favorable. Provided that the envisioned
fiscal adjustment and structural reform measures are successfully implemented, and the external
environment remains favorable, the consolidated central government deficit should decline from
5.7 percent of GDP in 2000 to 1.3 percent of GDP by the end of 2003 (Table 1).
28



Based on early evidence of investment recovery and a good tourism season, growth in 2001 is
expected to be around 4 percent-despite the world economy's weakening. GDP growth is
expected to strengthen further to 4.5 percent by 2003, owing to a revival in consumer and
investment spending (Table 2). Gross fixed investment should recover in 2001, after two
consecutive years of sharp contractions, and remain strong during the period under consideration.
Moreover, fiscal consolidation and the implementation of structural reforms aimed at increasing
the efficiency of the economy should promote export growth. Gross national savings should
gradually increase from 21.5 percent in 2000 to 24.6 in 2003, due mainly to higher public
savings. Pension reform and an increase in enterprise profitability, inter alia, should lead to a
further increase in private savings.
Table 2: Croatia - Composition of Real GDP Growth
Actual                    Projected
1997   1998   1999    2000      2001     2002   2003
National Accounts
Real GDP growth       6.8    2.5   -0.4     3.7       4.0      4.0    4.5
Domestic Demand    20.3   -1.6   -1.9      2.0       5.5      2.8    4.3
Consumption       10.0    0.2   -1.7     2.6       3.4       1.9    2.5
Investment        34.1   -7.4   -2.6    -0.1      13.3       6.2   10.3
Exports             7.6    3.9    0.7      8.7      7.1       3.1    3.0
Imports            25.2   -4.9   -2.7      4.2      10.3      0.7    2.7
107.  Between 2001 and 2003, gross external financing requirements are estimated at about
US$ 2.1 billion per year (see Table 3). These resources are needed to finance US$ 500 million in
current account deficits, US$ 430 million in increases in international reserves of the CNB,
roughly US$ 1 billion to meet repayment obligations and the rest for increased foreign assets of
the commercial bank sector. FDI is estimated to finance about 40 percent of total needs in the
2001-03 period, driven largely by privatization and to a lesser extent by new greenfield
investments-all of which will be supported by various SAL reform measures.
108.  The envisioned  fiscal retrenchment will reduce the  Government's borrowing
requirements, which, together with SAL financing, should reduce the need to borrow
commercially and domestically. This, in turn, will leave more room for the private sector to tap
into domestic and foreign markets at favorable terms.
29



Table 3: Croatia - Key Macroeconomic Indicators (Percent of GDP)
Actual                       Projected
1997    1998   1999      2000     2001      2002      2003
National Accounts
Real GDP growth               6.8     2.5   -0.4       3.7      4.0       4.0       4.5
Total Investment            27.5    24.0   23.4       22.0     25.1      25.5      26.7
Gross National Savings       15.9    16.9   16.4      19.9     21.4      23.5      24.6
Foreign Savings              11.6     7.1    6.9       2.1      3.7       2.0       2.1
Public Sector
Primary Balance a             -0.4    -1.5   -5.8      -4.2      -3.3      -2.3     -0.1
Interest payments              1.6     1.5    1.6       1.7       2.1       2.2      2.3
Balance                       -2.0    -3.0   -7.4      -.5.7     -5.4      -4.5     -2.3
Balance of Payments
Trade Balance                 25.9    19.2  -16.4    -16.8    -19.6    -17.4    -16.8
Current Account Balance      -11.6    -7.1   -6.9      -2.1      -3.7      -2.0     -2.1
Capital Account               15.1     7.4    9.0       5.3       6.7       2.9      3.9
Gross Intemational Reserves    2.7     3.2    3.7       4.4       4.6       4.7      4.9
(in months of Imports G&NFS)
Memo: GDP (US$ millions)    20,109  21,628 20,063    19,030    20,253    21,806    23,695
a: Consolidated Central Government on accrual basis.
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Rationale and Objectives
109. The proposed US$ 202 million loan would support the Government prograrn underscored
above, and in the attached Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1) and Policy Action Matrix
(Annex 2). Specifically, the proposed operation is intended to: (i) increase flexibility and
efficiency of the economy, which would engender job creation and export-led growth; (ii)
strengthen market institutions and fiscal discipline; and (iii) improve the systemic incentive
framework for a more competitive economy, which in turn would create an enabling
environment for SMEs to flourish and reduce the "grey economy".  These reforms, if
successfully implemented, would place Croatia on a sustainable growth path and buttress
macroeconomic stability, thereby allowing smoother and faster convergence towards European
structures.
B. Links to the Country Assistance Strategy
110. The proposed SAL is envisioned in the CAS and the CAS Progress Report, which were
discussed by the Executive Board in June 1999 and September 2001, respectively, under the base
case lending scenario. Although the proposed SAL was envisaged to take place in FY 2000, the
30



operation was delayed due to late elections and slower-than-anticipated progress on key issues.
The economic justification for the proposed SAL are twofold: (i) supporting and accelerating
economy-wide structural and institutional reforms; and (ii) alleviating the social consequences of
the reform measures.
Il1.  The assumption under the base case lending was that the Government would remain
resolved to carry out the stated fiscal and banking sector measures in 1999, to reduce financial
vulnerabilities, and prevent a crisis. In the event of such a scenario, the CAS envisioned that the
Bank could support the structural reform agenda with a SAL-type operation in the amount of
around US$200 million.
C. Status of Implementation of the Final Tranche of the EFSAL
112. The DM 160 million Croatia Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL)
was approved in May 1997. Croatia has completed all but one of the 16 conditions for the
second-and final-tranche release of the EFSAL. The one partially completed action refers to
the privatization of 13 distressed enterprises, of which the Government has privatized or brought
into bankruptcy procedure eight, representing 62 percent of the total equity of these 13
enterprises. The Government is completing the negotiations on the sale of one of the remaining
five enterprises, but the privatization of the other four, while now in process, will take time due
to poor market conditions and the need to resolve legal issues relating to the liabilities of these
enterprises. A request for a waiver on the one partially completed action is being considered on
the grounds that, while it cannot be completed in the near future, the 15 other, conditions under
the loan have been satisfactorily met.
D. SAL Board Conditions and Tranche Triggers
113.  Croatia's reform program is highlighted in Section III above and in the Letter of
Development Policy, and summarized in the Policy Action Matrix. Towards attaining the reform
objectives, Croatia is committed to implement the key measures and show the key results in the
second column (Actions before Board Presentation) of the Policy Action Matrix. The third
column of the Matrix depicts the key measures for the release of the Second Tranche, expected
by approximately Q3 2002.
E. Poverty Implications
114.  The operation will support immediate and longer-term poverty reduction through several
channels. Its support for macroeconomic stability will reduce the risk of shocks which can
adversely affect the living standards of the poor. By creating confidence, it will allow Croatia to
mobilize additional foreign financing, thus reducing the demand contraction needed to maintain
external stability. Its support for efficiency enhancement will promote longer-term poverty
reduction through faster economic growth. Its support for measures aimed at strengthening the
social safety net will mitigate social costs of the reforms and safeguard people who are already
disadvantaged. These measures will be accompanied by those directed at improving poverty
monitoring and targeting. Finally, the proposed SAL will include measures to eliminate
31



impediments to the flexibility of labor market and disincentives to job creation, which, in turn,
promote a more dynamic labor market and employment.
F. Coordination with the IMF and other Donors
115. The IMF is supporting Croatia's adjustment program with a 14 month SBA of SDR 200
million, approved in March 2001. As noted, the key elements of the Fund-supported program are
restricting public sector wages, lowering the fiscal deficit, reducing overall non-targeted social
spending, commencing with pension and health reform, and structural reforms aimed at
economic liberalization, restructuring and privatization. The IMF is planning to complete its
first review under the SBA on November 5, 2001; however, the Supplemental Letter of Intent
has yet to be agreed to with the Fund. Both the IMF and the Bank share the goals of achieving a
credible fiscal adjustment and enhancing the flexibility and efficiency of the Croatian economy
through the implementation of structural reforms. During the preparation of this operation, Fund
and Bank staff cooperated closely to ensure consistency between stabilization and structural
adjustment measures.
G. Implementation, Monitoring, and Supervision
116.  In order to facilitate the SAL program's implementation and coordination of activities,
the Government has decided to rely on the coordination body-the Prime Minister's Cabinet.
This coordination body will be supported by the expert staff team within the office of the Deputy
Prime Minister for economic policy.
117.  The Bank will assess the general progress of Croatia's structural reform program under
the SAL through regular supervision missions. Assessment will also entail regular monitoring
and supervision by the World Bank office in Zagreb.
H. Financial Arrangements
118. Borrower, Loan Amount, Tranching. The proposed SAL will be made to the Republic
of Croatia, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The loan will be payable in 15 years,
including 5 years of grace and level principal repayment, at six month LIBOR for US$ plus
variable spread for Variable-Rate Single Currency Loans. The loan amount is US$202 million
and will be released in two tranches: the first (US$102 million, including the front-end fee) will
be released upon approval of the Loan and notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness, and the
second (the balance) will be released on implementation of the release conditions within
approximately twelve months of the release of the first tranche.
119. Loan Management. The Ministry of Finance will open and maintain a Special Deposit
Account in the Croatian National Bank. Loan administration will be the responsibility of a loan
manager employed by the Ministry of Finance, who will be responsible for preparing the
withdrawal applications, maintaining the Special Deposit Account, arranging for its timely audit
(if requested by the Bank), and monitoring overall loan implementation. The loan manager will
also be responsible for coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contributions to the
32



Implementation Completion Report and for writing those sections related to loan administration.
The Government will approve the loan before it becomes effective
120. Disbursements. Loan disbursement would be made under simplified SAL disbursement
procedures. The Borrower would be required to open and maintain a Special Deposit Account in
dollars in the Croatian National Bank. As funds are released, the Borrower will submit a
simplified withdrawal application against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into
the Special Deposit Account for the Borrower's use. If after deposited in the Special Deposit
Account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes, the Bank will require the
Borrower to either: (a) deposit into the Special Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount
of said payment, or (b) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank, in which
case, the Bank would credit the amount refunded to the Loan Account for cancellation.
121. Accounting, Auditing, and Closing date. Although routine audits of the Special Deposit
Account will not be required, the IBRD reserves the right to require audits at any time. The
closing date of the Loan will be March 31, 2003.
122.  Environmental Impact.  In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment (Operational Directives 4.01), the proposed loan has placed in
"Category C" and will not require an environmental assessment.
I. Benefits and Risks
123.  Benefits. The proposed SAL will have several benefits. The structural reform program
supported by the proposed loan will engender restructuring of incentives and strengthening of the
institutional framework affecting the behavior of all major agents in the economy-labor,
enterprises, policy makers-so as to enhance efficiency and bring about rapid, sustained growth.
124.  As in most transition economies, to implement structural reforms that cut across several
sectors, mechanisms to achieve enduring consensus and "buy-in" among several government
agencies is required; to this end, one of the benefits of the proposed operation is support for
measures that improve inter-agency coordination and management in economic policy-making in
Croatia.
125.  The proposed operation will enhance fiscal discipline through measures that provide for
improved budget procedures, reduction/elimination of direct/indirect subsidies, monitoring of
government guarantees, and reforms in the pension system and health care.
126.  Strengthening Croatia's market institutions and competitiveness is also one of the
operation's benefits. This will come about through reforms that enhance minority shareholder
rights, strengthen enforcement of competition policy, improve the institutional capacity for
resolving business disputes and facilitating bankruptcy proceedings, and put in place measures
that will help create a business-friendly environment conducive to new investment, both
domestic and foreign.
33



127.  To enhance flexibility of the labor market, the operation supports reforms of the basic
legal and regulatory aspects of the employment regime that will facilitate enterprise restructuring
and redeployment of workers to higher productivity jobs. This shift will support Croatia's
efforts to attain strong and sustained growth in the context of today's more integrated and global
economy. The proposed loan will also support measures to cushion the temporary adverse
impact of the reform measures on the vulnerable: it will make lasting improvements in the social
safety net through improvements in, inter alia, targeting and cost effectiveness of social
assistance as well as community-based social services.
128. Overall, the proposed SAL will help the Government formulate a comprehensive
structural reform agenda, which contains measures with a large impact on growth potential,
within a consistent macroeconomic framework.
129. Risks. The proposed SAL faces risks. There are two main risks: political instability and
external vulnerability. Political risk stems from a difficult political economy. The government
faces a major challenge in implementing deep structural reforms that aim to dismantle Croatia's
generous welfare state and to shift a large share of economic activity from the public to the
private sector. These reforms threaten significant vested interests and could engender a social
backlash, particularly in an environment of already high unemployment. Affected groups range
from those who have profited from directed state spending, to war veterans, but they also include
more than 300,000 unemployed and close to one million pensioners. Political stability and social
cohesion may also be undermined by ethnic divisions and simmering post-conflict social
tensions. Moreover, the five party coalition government has most recently come under significant
strain from difficulties that have arisen with the ICTY. Collapse of the coalition government
could give rise to early elections, leading to significant delays in the reform program.
130. Policy slippage could be extremely costly. While the government has embarked on a
painful fiscal adjustment supported by the IMF Stand-By Arrangement, off-budgetary
expenditures have proved difficult to control and direct and implicit subsidies to SOEs persist.
The fragile fiscal situation is the primary threat to macroeconomic stability. Policy slippages
would be accompanied by a reduction in support from IFIs and donors and a likely deterioration
in investor confidence and access to international capital markets. As a result, Croatia's external
position could come under serious strain, precipitating a financial crisis, and compromising
prospects for sustainable growth.
131. External vulnerability arises from several sources. The financing plan depends heavily on
FDI and continued borrowing from international capital markets. But, because of uncertainties
and delays in privatization, the investment climate has not improved sufficiently, and FDI has
remained low. Heavy reliance on external borrowing has been possible because of favorable
market access, but an adverse shift in investor sentiment or contagion from crises in other
emerging markets could limit access in the future. Sharply rising external debt and debt service
combined with limited foreign exchange reserves would constrain the authorities' room to
maneuver in the event of a financing shortfall. A loss of investor confidence and capital flight
could quickly deplete reserves, leading to a sharp correction in the exchange rate and a costly
economic adjustment.
34



132. Another source of vulnerability is Croatia's dependence on an export-led recovery. While
export potential has been enhanced by recent trade agreements with Croatia's European trading
partners, export growth will be tempered by the current slowdown in EU economic activity,
notably in Germany. As a result, ambitious export growth forecasts may not materialize,
increasing pressure on the balance of payments, curtailing economic growth over the medium
term, and creating a less favorable reform environment. Croatia must also maintain good
international relations in order to forge closer political and economic ties with its trading
partners. Moreover, in the Bank's view, Croatia continues to be influenced by instability within
the SEE region.
133.  Finally, the full macroeconomic impact on an already slowing global economy of the
terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001 and the ensuing military response
will clearly depend on the duration of the conflict, but it is possible that these developments
could hit Croatia's economy in several ways. First, if the military response is drawn out or
widened, the tourist industry, one of the main generators of Croatia's growth in 2000 and 2001,
will probably suffer next year. This could cause problerms by increasing the country's current
account deficit, but also by reducing revenues in the state budget, which will thus become more
dependent on foreign borrowing, the availability of which could be adversely affected. In case of
a prolonged crisis, investor interest in emerging markets will diminish and make the sale of the
large public enterprises in Croatia uncertain. Given the needed continuity for fiscal
consolidation, lower revenues could force the government to further adjust expenditures and
adopt new social restrictions, thus bringing on increased political pressure domestically.
Nevertheless, the Government's commitment to sustaining macroeconomic stability and building
a basis for sound fiscal management in the current reform program augur well for the economy's
ability to weather the external shock.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
October 26, 2001
Attachments
35



ANNEX 1
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Zagreb, October 23, 2001
CROATIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LEITER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
818 11 Street, N. W.,
Washington, D.C., 20433
Dear Mr. President:
1.   This Letter of Development Policy describes the main tenets of the economic
reform program of Croatia as well as specific steps to deepen the second generation
reforms that the Govemment is resolute to press ahead in the near future. To implement
these reforms under current conditions, the Government requests financial assistance
from the World Bank. We would like to take this opportunity to also present the
macroeconomic framework that complements the program, as underscored in the recent
stand-by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund.
I.   Macroeconomic Framework
2.   The macroeconomic framework of our reform  program  centers on fiscal
adjustment, wage discipline, and continued exchange rate stability to put our economy on
a sustainable growth path, and to ensure price stability as well as external viability. In
support of the implementation of the program in its first year, we have reached agreement
with the International Monetary Fund (IMiF) on a 14-month Stand-By arrangement (SBA)
in an amount of SDR 200 million, which was approved by the IMF Executive Board on
March 19, 2001.
3.   A detailed description of our economic program is provided in a Letter of Intent
and the Memorandum of Economic Policies submitted to the IMF in our request for the
SBA on January 31, 2001. This program envisions the following scenario for 2001: (l) a
GDP growth rate of 4 percent; (ii) an inflation rate of 4.5 (end-of-period); (iii) a budget
deficit-adjusted for the net changes in arrears-of 5.3 percent; and (iv) a current
account deficit below 4 percent of GDP.
36



ANNEX 1
2
4.   One of the key elements of the program to be supported by the IMF's SBA is the
wage policy under which we plan to reduce the central budget wage bill by 10 percent
(from 11 percent of GDP in 2000 to 9.6 percent of GDP in 2001). TFle following
measures constitute the crux of the substantial reduction in the wage blll: (i) downsizing
of public sector amounting to some 10,000 lay-offs mainly in the Defense and Interior
Ministries; (ii) unification of job grade coefficients (attached to basic wage) at various
ministries; and (iii) repeal or change in all collective agreements.
5.   We are resolute to maintaining an appropriate medium-termn macroeconomic
framework for the duration of the program. To ensure resumption of enduring growth
together with price stability and extemal viability, we will update our macroeconomic
program in close collaboration with the Staff of the World Bank and the IMF
It. The Structural Reform Agenda
6.   Our structural adjustment program recognizes that fundamental refonns are
required to improve: (i) coordination and management in economic policy making; (ii)
the fiscal discipline; (ii) market institutions and the competitiveness of the economy; (iv)
the labor market, and (v) social protection to place the Croatian economy on a sustainable
growth path and prepare its integration into European structures. We are confident that
our structural reforn program addresses the appropriate policy priorities and
complements our macroeconomic framework supported by the lMF's SBA.
7.   The details of our reform program and the specific actions that we will take are
presented below.
k1.1 Improving Coordination and Management in Economic Policy Making
Key Objective: Establishing a new mechanism to ensure stronger coordination and
management of economic policy making.
8.   We recognize that successful implementation of a cross-cutting reform  agenda
requires major improvements in the management of economic policy. In January. 2001
we established a new coordination body-Prime Minister's Cabinet-consisting of the
Prime Minister, the three Deputy Prime Ministers, and the secretary of the Government,
which meets regularly to improve coordination and consensus-building across agencies in
all policy-making areas, including economic policies. In the area of economic policy-
making, the coordination body will be assisted by a new expert staff team. which was
established recently within the office of the Deputy Prime Minister for economic policy.
The expert staff team will facilitate on a Government-wide basis the program preparation,
implementation, and coordination of activities in all areas covered by the structural
adjustment program outlined in this Letter. By end-Q2 2001 we will (i) make an
assessment of the effectiveness of the new coordination body in making economic policy
and the expert economics staff team and (ii) implement needed improvements thereto.
37



ANNEX 1
3
H.2 Enhancing Fiscal Discipline
Key Obiective: Improving the budget process to instill greater accountability and
better fiscal management
9.   We are determined to ensure that all public funds are subject to the same
regulations, controls, and standards of accountability. To this end, we will amend the
Budget Law by Q4 2001 to: (i) fully reflect activities of the three Government agencies-
Croatian Privatization Fund, Agency for Bank Rehabilitation, and Croatian Bank for
Reconstruction and Development-that have a bearing on the Government's fiscal
position and include all extra-budgetary funds in the budget; (ii) introduce explicit multi-
year budgetary framework to improve financial decision-making; and (iii) adopt modified
accrual (commitment-based) accounting and budgeting. Concurrently, in order to provide
a complete picture of government resources and control the potential over-commitmnent
of funds, we will take a decision by Q3 2001 in order to bring all sources of revenues and
expenditures on-budget beginning 2002. Under this new arrangement, Ministries and
Government agencies will be allowed to retain own-revenues for their use, but own-
revenues will be included in budget submissions and will be subject to the same controls
as other public funds. We will also adopt the annual Budget Execution Law for 2002
fiscal year in which we will increase and strengthen the enforcement of penalties for
over-spending budgeted resources and violation of the Budget Law by Q4 2001.
Key Obiective: Making indirect subsides transparent and reducing subsidies
economy-wide.
10.  We are committed to reduce the actual amount of direct subsidies in the economy.
In doing so, we will eliminate the use of non-transparent, indirect subsidies, which, often,
in the past took the form of: Government waivers for the obligation of selected
enterprises to the social security funds; tax offsets and concessions; and debt-equity
swaps. We, as a recent member of the WTO, already respect the WTO agreement on
Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in the sphere of foreign trade and intend to rely
on the principles of this agreement in our efforts to reduce subsidies economy-wide.
11.  To this end, we will undertake an assessment that will compile in detail all
subsidies-both indirect and direct-currently in place by Q3 2001. In this exercise, the
calculation of non-transparent, indirect subsidies will be performed by determining the
largest of such subsidies based on the originating Government Decisions. We will
prepare an action plan by Q4 2001 to reduce direct subsidies and make any remaining
indirect subsidies transparent with a view to ensure fiscal sustainability and eliminate
distortions. We will begin implementation of the action plan in the 2002 budget by Ql
2002. In the interim, any remaining direct subsidies will be included in the budget in a
transparent manner.
Key Obiective: Improvements in the monitoring and the treatment of government
guarantees in public accounts.
12.  As part of our efforts to instill greater fiscal discipline, we are determined to
develop and introduce a monitoring system for government guarantees and lease
38



ANNEX 1
4
contracts. To this end, we will prepare a report on govemment guarantees and other
contingent liabilities, listing outstanding guarantees by type and by maturity, providing
the probable cost of each liability if called, identifying those liabilities called over the
previous two years and their treatmnent in the public accounts, and indicating what
appropriation, if any, is envisaged in the budget for contingent liabilities bv Q3 2001.
13.  We will also identify criteria for requesting treasury guarantees in the 2002 budget
law. At the samne time, we will set limits on the overall stock of outstanding government
guarantees and on their annual net issuance by Q4 2001.
Key Obiective: Improvements in the health care system to enhance its efficiency and
buttress fiscal discipline.
14.  We are committed to a fundamental refonn of the health sector. reflected in the
Health Reform Strategy adopted by Govemment and Parliament in 2000. This is
consistent with the urgent need to increase fiscal discipline, through increased efficiency
in health services delivery, and a new vision of the relative roles and responsibilities of
public and private sector providers and users of the health system. At the same time, we
remain committed to an accessible system of quality care, so that reforms across the
sector will take equity considerations into account. Based on our strategic objectives for
the sector, the relevant agencies are in the process of developing comprehensive
amendments to health sector legislation, which we expect to introduce in the Parliament
in mid-2001. While we do not underestimate the social and political challenges of
reforms in this sensitive sector, the Government views them as critical to putting the
sector on a fiscally sustainable footing, and forestalling an emerging financial crisis
which would have a severe impact not only on the health sector, but also on the overall
fiscal situation.
15.  To this end, we are determined to press ahead with the following measures: (i)
adoption of regulations for revised price and co-payment schedules for drugs, based on
reference prices from other countries, and differentiated co-payments for selected health
services by Q3 2001; (ii) reduction in exemptions on co-payments, which ciluTently apply
to around 70 percent of the population, of which the large majority are not poor by Q3
2001; (iii) adoption of an appropriate methodology for prioritizing health service delivery
and input purchases, based on relative cost-effectiveness by Q4 2001: and (iv) adoption
of amendments to current sick pay entitlements, in particular to reduce the replacement
rate on sickness payments by Q2 2001, reduce the maximum period of sick leave to six
months, and improve assessment procedures for extended sick leave bv Q3 2001. A
further key measure to improve the fiscal sustainability of the health sector would be to
adopt the new Law on the Health Insurance Contributions Paymenlt for levying
contributions on non-wage labor income, excluding capital income by Q4 2001.
16. Beyond these key specific measures, the Government also intends to carry through
the reforms in health care provision currently being piloted in Koprivnica district with the
support of the World Bank. These include increasing the availability of alternative care
settings to hospitals, in order to promote treatment at the most appropriate and cost-
effective level of care; improving hospital management systems to increase efficiency
and empower hospital management; promoting new models of primary care provision
39



ANNEX 1
5
such as group practice, in order to reduce incentives for primary care providers to refer
simple cases to higher and more costly levels of the system; and rolling out a variety of
measures to strengthen to public health system, so that preventive care receives Increased
emphasis.  The Government plans to roll out the lessons of the Kopiivnica pilot
nationally as results become available. In the interim, the Ministry plans to adopt a
rehabilitation program for selected hospitals with the most serious financial problems
during Q2 2001 and submit it for Government approval in the second half of the year.
The program would propose measures to increase the efficiency in delivery of hospital
services in cases where the current delivery network is structurally or firancially
unsustainable.
Key Obiective: Reforming the pension system to enhance its viability and efficiency.
17. The Government recognizes the challenges that the pension system represents, and
intends to address them in two main directions. First, we will activelv pulrsue already
legislated systemic reforms, which will allow for introduction of mandatory and
supplemental funded pensions during 2002. Second, we will address ongoimn  fiscal
sustainability issues in the first pillar, and resist pressures to assume additional
obligations, which would create an unsustainable fiscal burden.
18.  In terms of systemic reform, we have recently appointed the management of the
Central Registry of Affiliates (REGOS), and have appointed the managemienit te;:m and
approved the statute for HAGENA, the agency which would supervise privsate pensions.
In addition to acting as a clearinghouse for private pension contributions, the Government
intends that REGOS would act as a consolidated data collector for all payroll and
personal taxes, with the Tax Department/Treasury handling consolidated revenue
collection. This would be a critical step in promoting fiscal consolidation, through
elimination of the current fragmentation in revenue collection, and should contril)ute to
improved compliance and enforcement. A key preparatory step for this reforimi is to issue
a Govemment decree authorizing consolidated collection of data and re\enue on all
payroll and personal taxes, with identification of key institutional responsibilities and a
time table for introduction by Q2 2001. This would be followed by development and
Governmental approval of a unified form for monthly collection of all payro I and
personal taxes by REGOS by Q4 2001. This would in turn lead to elimination of parallel
reporting by employers-such as the PKI, M4 ID and other forms- withli a reaso>nable
period thereafter when the new system was fully functioning.
19.  In moving ahead with systemic pension reform, we recognize that the cuTrent
timetable for introduction of the second pillar in January 2002 is anibitious. ,iven
progress to date and the outstanding measures needed to achieve effective
implementation. We are committed to accelerating the pace of preparatory work f( r the
introduction of funded pensions during 2001. At the same time, we will develop an
effective contingency plan in the event that there is slippage on the planned January 2002
start date for the second pillar. To this end, the Govemrnment will approve a contin.ency
plan for dealing with the second pillar in the event of such slippage, in close consultation
with the relevant agencies by Q3 2001.
40



ANNEX 1
6
20.  Our second direction in pension reform is to improve performance of the first pillar
through a series of measures intended to restore fiscal balance in the system. To this end,
the Government is proposing amendment of the main pension law in late 2001 or early
2002. Given the fragile financial position of the public pension system. it would be
critical to ensure at a minimum that amendments to the pension law did not increase the
aggregate expenditure obligations of the first pillar, and in particular that half wage/half
price indexation and valorization is retained as a core element Taking that commitment
as a starting point, there would also be adjustments to the first pillar which would help to
control expenditures in key areas where the Croatian system is currently unsustainable -
minimum pension provisions, and the linkage between contributions and benefits.
21.  Key measures to improve the fiscal sustainability of the system would be the
following: (i) levying contributions on non-wage labor income, excluding capital income
by Q4 2001; (ii) reducing the minimum pension accrual rate on all categories of pensions
from the current level to one more consistent with actuarial principles by Ql 2002: (iii)
introducing the same annual decrement for early retirees on the minimuLmI pension as
exists for other pensioners by QI 2002; (iv) increasing compliance by basing pension
accruals only on paid contributions by Ql 2002. In addition, we will not increase the
personal income tax deductible for pensions above HRK 2,500 and, over time, we intend
to harmonize tax deductibles across different social categories . Finally. we recognilze the
need for further controlling incentives for early retirement, and will undertake a review of
key aspects of the early retirement regime, including reviewing the appropriate annual
decrement for early retirement in the first pillar to achieve an actuarially neutral
adjustment, reviewing the qualification period for early retirement, and rationalizing
existing special early retirement provisions by Q4 2001.
22.  A final measure which the Govemment considers important in the pension svstem
relates to the remaining asset holdings of the Pension Institute, particularlv those held in
the Kapitalni Fond and managed by the HMID asset management company. Despite the
Government's intention of transferring management of publicly-owned assets to the
Croatian Privatization Fund, the PI retains ownership and through HMID directs
management of a valuable asset portfolio, which undermines effectw' e corporate
governance and distracts P1 management from its core functions. We will transfer
management of the remaining share holdings of the PI to the CPF-or any successor
agency thereto- by Q2 2001 and dispose of them as part of the Government's broader
plans for disposition of state asset holdings. We will issue a Decision which will lay out
a plan for the CPF or successor agency to divest entirely PI portfolio holdings by an
agreed date, and ensure that the PI Management Board does not unreasonably withhold
its consent to sale of shares by Q4 2001.
41



ANNEX 1
7
IL3 Strengthening Market Institutions and the Competitiveness of the Economy
Key Obiective: To improve the transparency and fiscal accountability of key public
enterprises and to reduce their and the Government's arrears and non-paymelits.
23.  The Govemment shall issue a Conclusion by Q2, 2001 to require thie official
publication of the quarterly financial accounts (balance sheet and profit and loss
statements), prepared according to Intemational Accounting Standards (lAS), of the ten
public enterprises: (i) INA, (ii) HEP, (iii) Postal Service, (iv) Shipping Company, (v)
Railway, (vi) Telecom, (vii) Forest, (viii) Lighthouse, (ix) Insurance and (xt Official
Gazette as well as three Government agencies: (xi) Croatian Privatization Fund, (xii)
Agency for Bank Rehabilitation; and (xiii) Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. The first quarterly accounts to be published under the Conclusioni shall be
the accounts of Ql 2001, which are to be published before the end of Q2 2001:
subsequently, the accounts for each quarter shall be published before the end of the
following quarter. The Conclusion shall also stipulate that the corresponding annual
financial accounts (balance sheet and profit and loss statements), prepared according to
IAS and audited annually by independent auditors according to Intemational Standards of
Auditing (ISA), of the thirteen above-specified entities shall be officialiv pLiblished
annually before the end of the second quarter of the next year, beginning with the 2000
annual financial accounts which are to be published before the end of Q2 2001.
24.  The Government, through its shareholder positions in the ten public enterprises-
(i) INA, (ii) HEP, (iii) Postal Service, (iv) Shipping Company, (v) RailwaY. (%,i,) Telecom,
(vii) Forest, (viii) Lighthouse, (ix) Insurance and (x) Official Gazette-sliall ensure that
(a) beginning by the end of Q4 2001 these enterprises' accounts receivable and payable
with respect to all enterprises and Government agencies/institutions are kept current
under the contract termns and settled through cash mechanisms (i.e., no mutual offsets)
and that (b) by end-Q4 2001 these enterprises' arr-ears as of January 1. 2001 are fully
settled through cash mechanisms (i.e. no  offsets, barter or other non-cash forrils of
transactions). Moreover, the Govemment shall take all necessary measuies, iiluding
enactment of legislation by the Parliament, by Q2 2001 to ensure that there are no legal
or regulatory obstacles for the curtailment of services or termination of supply to
individuals and institutional consumers who default in their cash payments to these
enterprises.
25.  The Government is committed to eliminate its non-cash payments and arrears with
the ten public enterprises-(i) INA, (ii) HEP, (iii) Postal Service, (iv) Shipping Coinpany,
(v) Railway, (vi) Telecom, (vii) Forest, (viii) Lighthouse, (ix) Insurance and (x) Official
Gazette. To this end, the Government and its related agencies will take all necessary
measures, including submission of legislation to the Parliament, to: miaintairn their
accounts payable to these public enterprises such that they are current under the contract
terms for purchases commencing July 1, 2001; ensure that all Govermnent purchases
from these enterprises are paid for through cash mechanisms (i.e., no muLltual offsets,
barter or other non-cash forms of transactions) as of July 1, 2001; and bv December 31,
2001 to settle fully in cash (i.e., no mutual offsets, barter or other non-cash forns of
transactions) all arrears with these enterprises.  To record transparently that such
performance is being adhered to, the Govemment shall officially publish a quarterly
42



ANNEX 1
8
report on its payables to and receivables from these ten enterprises; the first quarterly
report to be published shall be for the payables and receivables or Q  2-oI 0I hich is to
be published before the end of Q2 2001; subsequently, the payables and receivables for
each quarter shall be published before the end of the following quarter.
Key Obiective: To strengthen creditors' rights and facilitate the bankruptcy process
in order to foster more competitive restructuring of businesses.
26.  The Government is committed to enhancing the reallocation of assets constrained
in commercially unviable enterprises to higher value uses so as to promote new business
formation, job creation and growth in the real economy. Toward this end it has recently
implemented several measures and will undertake additional measures. First, the
Government will accelerate all actions under its control to facilitate that the state's
interests as creditor are pursued fully and vigorously in accordance with the bankruptcy
law to help bring to closure the existing 321 insolvency cases by Ql 2002. Second, new
amendments to the Bankruptcy Law became effective in December 2000; thev are aimed
at enhancing the functioning of Croatia's bankruptcy regime.  Building on this
accomplishment so as to make the legal framework for the bankruptcy process even more
efficient and strengthen the institutional capacity for bankruptcy proceedings, the
Government-following an evaluation period of the efficacy of the new amendments and
technical assistance to be received from international experts-shall (i) submit to the
parliament by Q2 2002 and seek enactment by Q4 2002 amendments to the bankruptcy
law and other applicable laws where necessary and (ii) take other measures by Q2 2002
to enlarge the institutional capacity for processing bankruptcy cases.  Third, the
Government shall submit to the parliament by Q2 2002 and seek enactment by Q4 2002
legislation' and enact other relevant measures so as to establish a process for certification
of bankruptcy trustees in line with intemational standards, with respect to professional
qualifications  , selection  procedures, performnance  monitoring  appraisal  and
accountability, responsibilities and duties, pay, disciplining and disqualification.
Key Obiective: To expand judicial institutions for facilitating settlement of business
commercial disputes and strengthen the legal framework and Government
institutions for combating corruption and organized crime.
27.  In order to provide for greater opportunities for businesses to settle commnercial
disputes more efficiently, the Government shall submit to the parliament by Q2 2001 and
seek enactment by Ql 2002 a Law on Arbitration that provides for the Arbitration Court
to serve as a new permanent independent altemative dispute resolution mechanism. In
addition, in order to foster more efficient enforcement of commercial dispute decisions,
new measures will be implemented by the Govemment by Q1 2002 that (i) enhance the
professionalism and training of the police and (ii) enlarge the bailiff service
28.  The Government shall submit to the parliament by Q2 2001 and seek enactlment by
Q3 2001 a Law on Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime, which shall amend the
criminal code (and other relevant laws) to strengthen penalties for corruption and combat
This can be either a self-standing law or amendments to the Bankruptcy Law.
43



ANNEX 1
9
organized crime and establish a new Office for Anti-Corruption and Combating
Organized Crime as a unit in the State Attorney's-Office.
Key Obiective: To strengthen the Government's capacity to promote inter-
enterprise competition.
29.  The Govemment strongly believes that enhancing competition among enterprises
in Croatia is vital to strengthening business performance, expanding employment
opportunities, increasing Croatia's competitiveness in the world marketplace and
ensuring the country's sustainable economic growth. The Government Will undertake
several measures that strengthen substantially the financial and human resources, political
status, and legal enforcement powers of the Agency for the Protection of Market
Competition (APMC). The Government will ensure that the APMC has sufficient funding
and staff resources to carry out these functions.
30.  The Law on the Protection of Market Competition shall be substantlallv modified
so as to harmonize it with EU competition law standards. To this end. a series of
amendments to the Law on the Protection of Market Competition will be approved bv the
Government and submitted to the Parliament by Q4 2001, and the Government shall seek
passage of these amendments by Q3 2002. The amendments shall bring at least the
following areas in line with EU competition law standards: (i) broadening the range of
application of the Law so that it covers restraints on competition in Croatia economy-
wide, including those that might emanate from the structure, conduct and performance of
infrastructure and other public services markets; (ii) specifying definitions, standards,
rules, and procedures as regards treatment of horizontal and vertical restrictive business
practices; (iii) clarifying definitions, assessment and treatment of market dominiance.
concentration, barriers to entry, geographic and product market boundaries, and abuse of
market power; and (iv) strengthening the independence of the APMC, and in so doing
clarifying the structure, position, tasks, authority and relationships of the Agency.
Council and Director.
31.  In order to improve the oversight functions of the APMC and enhance the agency's
ability to coordinate enforcement of competition policy on an inter-agencv basis, by Q2
2001 the Government will promulgate a Conclusion effective Q2 2002. whichi stipulates
that, consistent with Articles 26 and 30 of the Law on the Protection of Market
Competition, at the time any govemment department/agency issues proposed legislation,
proposed regulation or otherwise proposes to any major policy action that may
significantly reduce competition within the Croatian economy, the department;agency
must (i) make an assessment of the cost and benefits of the proposed actionts of the
impact on competition and (ii) obtain the legal opinion of the Agency for P'rotection of
Market Competition, which, in collaboration with the Cabinet of the Govemrment, will
review the competitive impact assessment. The Conclusion will also specify that the
APMC has the authority to request from any government department/agenlcy a copy of
major draft legislation, regulation or other proposed measures that the APMC belies es
may significantly reduce competition.
32. The Agency for Protection of Market Competition will publish by Q2 2002 new
draft merger notification bylaws, consistent with intemational practice. that establish
44



ANNEX 1
10
well-defined policy parameters for distinguishing between pro-competitive and anti-
competitive mergers and acquisitions and for controlling economic concentration.
Following public comment, the finalized merger bylaws will be enacted and officially
published by Q3 2002.
33.  The Govemment recognizes that it needs to enhance its knowledge base on how to
improve competition forces within Croatia. Accordingly, the Government will provide
the Agency for Protection of Market Competition with sufficient financial resources to
carry out and publish a comprehensive report by Q2 2002 that empirically assesses
concentration and barriers to entry in manufacturing and infrastructure utility markets,
including the effects of such market structures on competitive perfonnance.
Key Obiective: To foster the entry of new businesses, especially micro, small and
medium enterprises (SMEs).
34. The Government is committed to strengthen efforts to remove barriers at the
Central and regional levels to the creation of new business entities. To this end the
Government shall undertake several actions. To facilitate the registration process for
companies, SMEs, crafts and cooperatives, the Govemment will take all necessary
measures, including submitting legislation to the parliament, by Ql 2002 to implement
by Q3 2002 new streamlined rules-based, fixed fee registration procedures. To facilitate
the business licensing process, the Government shall submit to the parliamellt by Q3
2001 and seek enactment by Q4 2001 legislation and take all other necessarv measures to
substantially reduce the list of activities for which business licenses are requlired, in
addition, by Ql 2002 a new streamlined rules-based, fixed-fee business licensing
procedure will be implemented, including a "one-stop shop" entity for businiess licenses
and registration. The measures for enhancing licensing and registration will set definite
time limits for registration/licensing and reduce the various fees for registration/licensing.
35. To ensure special attention is given to improving the policy enm ironmnent for
establishment of SMEs, the following measures will be undertaken. The Gosernment will
submit by Q2 2001 and seek passage by the parliament by Q3 2001 a Law on1 Promotion
of Development of Small and Medium Enterprises that will codify uniform criteria for
defining the SME sector. In order to facilitate financing of microenterprises (individual
proprietors and households), the Government will develop an appropriate legal and
regulatory framework to facilitate provision of micro credit by non-uovernmental
organizations by Q4 2001 and seek passage by the parliament of appropriate legislative
reform by Ql 2002. The Government will take all necessary actions by Q4 2001 to
rationalize the structure and implementation of all existing govemment-sponsored or
organized credit lines, ensure such credit lines are developed and implemented so as to
complement reforms to develop a commercial banking sector that operates according to
market principles, and provide for strict time limits such that such credit lines will be
phased out by 2005.
45



ANNEX 1
11
Key Obiective: To strengthen corporate governance and protection of minority
shareholders' rights
36.  The Government will submit by Q3 2001 and seek passage by the parliament by
Q4 2001 a new Law on Securities Issuance and Trade that harmonizes the law with
proposals and instructions of the Intemational Organization of Securities Commissions.
as well as with the European Union directives. In so doing the law will provide for
greater enforcement authority of CROSEC with regard to imposing substantial penalties
on securities dealers who violate investors' rights, making more effective the oversight of
brokerage houses, strengthening disclosure requirements, and devising rules for
depositories.
37.  The Govemment will also submit by Q3 2001 and seek passage by the parliament
by Q2 2002 amendments to the Company Law and the Law on Takeover Procedure of
Joint Stock Companies and other relevant laws that strengthen minority shareholders'
rights, liberalize existing rules hindering share transfers, ensures full payment of shares at
time of issuance, enable more transparent securities trade, establish consistent rules for
issuance of prospectuses, facilitate joint stock companies to quote their stocks on the
stock markets and harmonize corporate governance practices with EU rules.
Key Obiective: To reduce barriers to domestic and foreign direct investment.
38.  The Govemment recognizes that worldwide competition for direct investmiient is
increasingly intense and is thus committed to implementing an action plan that ilmproves
Croatia's FDI and domestic investment policy regime by bringing the fiscal, regulatory
and legal policy framework in line with best intemational practice. Several measures will
be implemented to this end.
39.  The Government will enact a program, including legislation, bv Q I 2002 that
reduces various administrative barriers to direct investment-whether by domestic or
foreigners. The program will: simplify the administrative procedures relating to investor
entry and expatriate employment; shorten the overall time required to process visas and
work permits and extend their duration; result in the publication of a single,
comprehensive guide to immigration procedures for investors and expatriate employees:
simplify construction-related pennits; prepare subnational guides for construction-related
procedures; accelerate utility connections; introduce mechanisms to increase dialogue
among the various govemment agencies, and between them and the investor community;
and prepare comprehensive official guides to investment procedures and legislation at the
national and subnational levels.
40. The Government will submit to the parliament by Q3 2001 and will seek
enactment by QI 2002 legislation to substantially reduce over a phased period in a time-
bound program both (i) the number of sectors where FDI is presently prohibited and (ii)
the number and incidence of existing limitations on FDI in sectors where it is permitted
but restricted. These measures will cover not only manufacturing sectors but also the
infrastructure and services sectors.
46



ANNEX 1
12
41.  The Government will refrain from  creating, and will not support legislative
initiatives for establishing preferential foreign direct investment incentive measures
including policies in the areas of taxation, customs duties, among other instruments
II.4 Enhancing Flexibility in the Labor Market
Key Obiective: To promote labor market flexibility through modifying the
legislative framework.
42.  We are committed to carry through reforms aimed at increasing labor market
flexibility and containing labor costs in order to increase job creation and reduce
unemployment, and to decrease the size of the informal economy. To this end, we are
determined to review and revise the Labor Law to ensure its better compatibilhty with the
needs of a competitive market economy. In particular, the govemment intends to (i)
lower dismissal costs, (ii) increase the scope of flexible employment contracts, (iii)
lower some non-cash work related benefits.
43.  To this end, the Government will prepare the first draft of amendments to the
Labor Law, explained below, by the end of Q4 2001. The Govemment will consult the
draft amendments with social partners and will seek their support for the proposed
changes; it will submit the draft amendments to the Parliament by Q1 2002 anid will seek
that passage of the law by the end of Q2 2002.
44.  Dismissal costs will be lowered through: (i) easing preconditions for valid
dismissal (such as the requirement that the employer attempts reassignment or retrainiing
before a worker can be declared redundant), especially in small firms (up to 50 workers);
(ii) relaxing the definition of a mass-lay off so that it refers the dismissal of nio less than
20 workers within 90 days; (iii) shortening the advanced notice period to a maximum of
tree months notice for workers with at least 20 years of service, (iv) reducing severance
pay (including special severance pay provisions for persons with occupational disease or
who suffered form injury at work) by applying the revised formula (at most 1,3 of a
month's salary per year of service) with the ceiling set at six monthly salaries
45.  Flexible employment contracts will be promoted through removing the provision
whereby fixed-term contracts can be made only on an exceptional basis and require a
valid reason.
46.  Non-cash benefits will be limited by reducing the duration of the maternity leave
after which the employer is obliged to readmit the worker to 12 months.
Kev Obiective: To improve employment services to facilitate labor redeploynient.
47.  As part of our planned arnendments to the Employment Law, we are commniitted to
developing employment services in order to mitigate the negative consequences of
enterprise restructuring, and to improve labor market chances of the unemployed. The
improvement of employment services will be achieved through programs including: (a)
the improvement of the quality and enhancement of the scope of employment services
47



ANNEX 1
13
provided by public Employment Offices, (b) the development of private employment
services, (c) the improvement of the labor market information -system, and monitoring the
changes in the labor market and economic conditions.
48.  Public employment services will be improved by providing resources necessary to
expand the capacity of Employment Offices to provide high quality services to the
unemployed, including job matching, job search assistance, job counseling and training
referral. The capacity building will involve (i) staff training, (ii) the improvement of the
existing labor market information system (e.g. data on the profile of labor demand), (iii)
computerization of the Employment Offices network.
49.  Private employment services will be encouraged and the existing legal barriers to
their functioning will be removed. Specifically, the Government will submit to the
Parliament the draft amendments to the Employment Law that will lift existing
restrictions on the delivery of private employment services in Q2 2001 and will seek
enactment of the legislation by the end of Q3 2001 .
Key Obiective: To improve labor market information systems to monitor the effects
of adjustment on the displaced workers.
50.  The govemment will expand labor market monitoring by establishing a bi-annual
sample survey of economic and labor market conditions. The survey data wlll be used to
prepare projections on changes in employment and unemployment on a regional basis.
These projections will be used to plan the demand for employment services and
expenditures on unemployment benefit. The Govemment in collaboration with the
Croatian Employment Services will explore possible ways of carrying out the survey and
will prepare the terms of reference for the survey by the end of Q4 200].
51.  In addition, to ensure timely release of crucial labor market information. vxe will
(in collaboration with the Central Bureau of Statistics) undertake necessary steps so that
the key results of the Labor Force Survey (the unemployment rate broken down b) most
important worker characteristics) are released at a press conference as soon as possible,
but no later than 3 months after data collection was completed. The results should be
published no later than 2 weeks after the press release.
Key Obiective: To make income support more cost-effective and mitigate the
adverse consequences of enterprise restructuring.
52.  The Govemment is committed to developing an affordable and efficient system of
income support for displaced workers. The Govemment recognizes that some existing
measures are unsustainable owing to high fiscal costs, and therefore there is a need to
rationalize the system.
53.  To this end the Govemment will (i) revise regulations governing unemployment
benefit for persons with long years of service; and (ii) assess fiscal implications and
feasibility of some of the proposed amendments to the Employment Law, especially
regarding the extension of the unemployment benefit coverage, and the amount of
eamings which is allowed to be combined with unemployment benefit receipt
48



ANNEX 1
14
54.  In order to rationalize incentives, the Government will_limit_the elgibility for
open-ended unemployment benefit. In Q2 2001, the Government will submit to the
Parliament draft amendments to the Employment Law, which will raise the length of
employment necessary to qualify for open-ended unemployment benefit by five years-
i.e. to 35 and 30 years of employment for men and women., respectively.   The
Government will seek the passage of the amendments by the end of Q3 2001.
55.  The Government will refrain from, and will not support legislative initiatives for
extending the coverage of the unemployment benefit system and relaxing the eligibility
conditions. Specifically the government will refrain from extending the unemployment
benefit coverage to workers working abroad and the self-employed. We will also refrain
from allowing the unemployed to combine the receipt of unemployment benefit with
eamings from work, and from lengthening the period within one can acquire the rights
for unemployment benefit. We understand the broadening the eligibility for
unemployment benefit would bring about an increase in registered unemployment, would
entail higher expenditures on unemployment benefit, and thus would require an increase
in social contributions and/or taxes. We will undertake efforts to limit the unemployment
register to persons who, according to the definition of unemployment, are available for
work and actively looking for work. Persons who are not available for work but in need
of income support will be transferred to the social assistance system. This will allow us
to have a clearer and more accurate picture of unemployment in our country, and will
also allow us to more efficiently allocate resources for social protection.
11.5 Strengthening Social Protection
Key Obiective: To develop a national strategy for poverty reduction.
56.  We recognize the need to develop a comprehensive program for poverty reduction.
To this end, we will produce a National Program for the Reduction of Poverty during
2001, the first draft of which will be available in Q2 2001. The Ministry of Labor and
Social Welfare will play a key role in developing this strategy, with inputs from the
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Education and Sport. Ministrv of
Health, Ministry of Crafts and SMEs, Ministry of Justice, Public Administration and
Local Self-Govemment, Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, and
Office for Cooperation with NGOs. The Program will be submitted to the Government in
Q3 2001 for its consideration, and we expect adoption by the Parliament in late 2001 or
early 2002. In addition to a discussion of poverty, the strategy paper will collate and
review all social transfer expenditures in Croatia as a first step to assessing their
effectiveness in reducing poverty.
Key ObJective: To improve monitoring of poverty.
57.  We need to improve the availability of reliable and representative household
survey data. To this end, the Household Budget Survey (HBS) has been expanded to
cover the entire country since January 2001. However, the sample frame dates to before
the war and is therefore subject to shortcomings. The national census carried out in April
2001 will provide a sound basis for updating the sample frame and creating a reliable
basis for policy-relevant data analysis. The Government is committed to use the Census
49



ANNEX 1
15
to develop an up-to-date nationally representative random sample for the HBS by QI
2002.
58.  There is also the need to improve the capacity to collect and produce social
statistics, including social indicators by region. This will be achieved by (i) developing
an action plan identifying necessary investments including technical assistance. To this
end, a Task Force will be established under the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare to
plan technical assistance and other efforts to improve poverty monitoring and ensure that
results are used in policy development by Q4 2001; and (ii) ensuring an adequate annual
budget for the Croatian Bureau of Statistics by Q4 2001.
Key Obiective: To improve targeting and effectiveness of social assistance.
59.  As a part of our poverty reduction efforts we intend to strengthen the system of
social assistance, a commitment reflected in the recent submission to Parliament of
amendments to the Law on Social Care. We will ensure that regular support allowances,
our best targeted benefit, will continue to be paid regularly. In addition, we will: (i)
assess the targeting effectiveness of the other eleven different types of allowances and
benefits paid out by the Centers for Social Welfare by end Ql 2002; and (ii) prepare an
action plan for the reduction in or the elimination of those benefits which are poorly
targeted by end Q2 2002.
Key Objective: To improve the targeting and effectiveness of other allowances.
60.  We will also rationalize special tax privileges and benefits to a number of groups
including pensioners, veterans, and families with children. In particular. we will: (i)
harmnonize the tax allowances of war veterans, excluding survivors and higher categories
of disabled war veterans, with that of the rest of the population by Q4 2001, (ii) exainine
the impact of recent changes in eligibility for child allowances on targeting effectiveness
by Q] 2002; and (iii) prepare an action plan of measures to enhance the targeting
effectiveness of child allowances by Q2 2002.
Key objective: To strengthen community based social services.
61. Finally, we intend to increase the involvement of NGOs and other civil society
groups in the delivery of social services. To this end, we will develop a strategy for a
national system of community based social services by Q2 2002. As a part of this
strategy we will develop service standards, mechanisms for contracting, and pro-forma
service agreements for service delivery by NGOs. These procedures will be piloted in
selected regions starting Q4 2002, to be followed by a national roll-out in 2003.
Sincerely yours,
rvaT           PRIME MINISTER           zy,,*NCE
SlV Linic                      '          o Crkvenac
50



ANNEX 2
CROATIA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN POLICY ACTION MATRIX OF "CORE" MEASURES'
Government's Objectives                                                 Core Policy Measures                                           Responsible Agency
Actions before Board Presentation                       Second Tranche
.__________________________________                                                                       T (Tentative   Q3  2002)
1. IMPROVING COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT IN ECONOMIC POLICY MAKING
1.1 Strengthen inter-agency policy-         -Implement needed improvements in the new                                                       Prime Minister's Office
making processes and structures [LDP        coordination body in making economic policy
para 8]                                    I and the expert economics staff team thereto.
2. ENHANCING FISCAL DISCIPLINE
2.1 Improvements in the Budget Process      -Take a decision to bring all sources of revenue  - Amend the Budget Law to (i) fully reflect    Ministry of Finance
[LDP paras 9; 12 and 13]                    and expenditure on-budget beginning 2002.        activities of the three Government agencies-
Croatian Privatization Fund, Agency for Bank
Rehabilitation, and Croatian Bank for
Reconstruction and Development-that have a
bearing on the Government's fiscal position in
the budget, and include all extra-budgetary
funds; (ii) introduce multi-year budgetary
framework to improve financial decision-
making; (iii) adopt modified accrual
(commitment-based) accounting and budgeting;
and (iv) identify criteria for requesting treasury
__________________________________________       guarantees in the annual budget law
2. 2 Making indirect subsides transparent   -Undertake an assessment that will compile in   -Launch the implementation of the action plan    Ministry of Finance
and reducing subsidies economy-wide       detail all subsidies-both indirect and direct-   to reduce subsidies with a view to ensure fiscal
kn    _LDP paras 10 and 11]                         currently in place.                              sustainability and eliminate distortions.     |
''     2.3 Improvements in the health care and pe sion systems to buttress fiscal discipline
2.3.1 Health Care System                    -Amend current sick pay entitlements, in         -Implement a health care reform program that    Ministry of Health
[LDP paras 14 to 16]                        particular to reduce the replacement rate, reduce    (i) approves regulations and begins
the maximum period of sick leave to six months,  implementation of the revised co-payment
and improve assessment for extended sick leave.   schedules for drugs (based on reference
pricing), and differentiated co-payments on
selected health services; (ii) significantly reduce
exemptions on co-payments, which currently
apply to around 70 percent of the population.;
and (iii) enacts the Law on the Health Insurance
Contributions Payment in order to levy
contributions on non-wage income2, excluding
capital income.
2.3.2 Pension System [LDP paras 17 to 22]    - Implement a program under which (i) the       - Implement a pension reform program that (i)    Ministry of Labor and
Government issues a decree authorizing          amends the Pension Insurance Law in order to    Social Welfare,
consolidated collection of data and revenue on all  reduce the minimum pension accrual rate on all
payroll and personal taxes, with identification of   categories of pensions from the current level to    Ministry of Finance,
key institutional responsibilities and a time table   one more consistent with actuarial principles;
for introduction; (ii) the management of the    introduce the same annual decrement for early    Pension Institute's
All the measures covered by the SAL are specified in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP). This matrix contains only the "core" conditions. The text herein describes the short-hand versions of the "core"
conditions. Please refer to the corresponding paragraphs in the LDP for the full exposition of the "core" measure in question.
2Non-wage income refers to the definition described in the Personal Income Tax Law (Official Gazette 127/00) article 15, para 4, points 2 and 3 which defines the income from other self-employed activities such
as: (i) income of the members of the Supervisory Boards, assemblies, councils and committees, (ii) income of trustees or jurors, (iii) temporary self-employment activities like author's fees of scientists, artists,
experts. joumalists, agents, referees, court witnesses, travelling salesmen, etc. and (iv) other activities being implemented in parallel to basic activity or wage-employment type of work.



ANNEX 2
Government's Objectives                                               Core Policy Measures                                           Responsible Agency
Actions before Board Presentation                       Second Tranche
.____________________________________        (Tentative  Q3  2002)
remaining asset holdings of the PI are transferred   retirees on the minimum pension as exists for  Supervisory Board
to the CPF-or any successor agency thereto; and  other pensioners; and increase compliance by
(iii) the management of all Pension Institute   basing pension accruals only on paid
portfolio holdings are divested to the CPF or any   contributions; (ii) amends the relevant
successor agency thereto, and Government to    legislation in order to levy contributions on
approve a plan to divest the PI portfolio holdings   non-wage income, excluding capital income;
entirely.                                       and (iii) ensures that there will be no increase in
the personal income tax deductible for pensions
above HRK 2,500 and harmonize tax
deductibles across different social categories.
3. STRENGTHENING MARKET INSTITUTIONS AND THE COMPETITIVENESS OF THE ECONOMY
3.1 To improve the transparency and         -Implement a program under which the            -Implement a program that (i) ensures, through    Ministry of Finance
fiscal accountability of key public         Government (i) issues a Conclusion to require the  the Government's shareholder position in the
enterprises and to reduce their and the     official publication of the quarterly financial  ten public enterprises that, beginning by the end
Government's arrears and non-payments   accounts (balance sheet and profit and loss         of Q4 2001, these enterprises' accounts
[LDP paras 23 to 25]                        statements), prepared according to International    receivable and payable are kept current under
Accounting Standards (IAS), of the ten public  the contract terms and settled through cash
enterprises as well as three Government agencies;  mechanisms (i.e., no mutual offsets barter or
3 (ii) publishes officially the accounts of ten  other non-cash forms of transactions); (ii)
public enterprises as well as three Government  settles, by end-Q4 2001, these enterprises'
agencies of Q 1 2001, which are to be published  arrears as of January 1, 2001 through cash
before the end of Q2 2001; subsequently, publish   mechanisms (i.e. no mutual offsets, barter or
the accounts for each 2uarter before the end of  other non-cash forms of transactions); and (iii)
the following quarter; (iii) ensures that all  settles fully by December 1, 2001 in cash (i.e.,
Government purchases from these enterprises are   no mutual offsets, barter or other non-cash
paid for through cash mechanisms (i.e., no     forms of transactions) all arrears with these
mutual offsets, barter or other non-cash forms of   enterprises.
transactions) as of July 1, 2001; and (iv)
publishes officially a quarterly report on its
payables to and receivables from these ten
enterprises (the first quarterly report to be
published shall be for the payables and
receivables for Ql 2001, which is to be published
before the end of Q2 2001).
3.2 To facilitate the bankruptcy process in                                                -Enactment of the amendments to the            Ministry of Justice, Public
order foster more competitive                                                              bankruptcy law to strengthen creditors' rights  Administration and Local
restructuring of businesses [LDP para 261                                                  and bolster court and related institutions.    Self-Government
3.3 To strengthen the Government's         -Promulgate a Conclusion effective Q2 2002,      -Enact amendments to the Law on the           Agency for Protection of
capacity to promote inter-enterprise        which stipulates that, consistcnt with ArtiLlcs 26    Protectioil of Market Competition to harmonize   Market Competition,
competition. [LDP paras 29 to 33]           and 30 of the Law on the Protection of Market   it with EU competition law standards in the
Competition, at the time any government        following areas: (i) broadening the range of   Prime Minister's Office
department/agency issues proposed legislation,  application of the Law so that it covers
The ten public enterprises are: INA, HEP, Postal Service, Shipping Company, Railway, Telecom, Forest, Lighthouse, Insurance and Official Gazette. The three Govemment agencies are: Croatian Privatization
Fund, Agency for Bank Rehabilitation and Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
The annual financial accounts (balance sheet and profit and loss statements) of the thirteen above-specified entities should be prepared according to IAS and audited by independent auditors according to
International Standards of Auditing (ISA) and shall be officially published by end April of the next year.



ANNEX 2
Government's Objectives                                          Core Policy Measures                                      Responsible Agency
Actions before Board Presentation                  Second Tranche
(Tentative Q3 2002)
proposed regulation or otherwise proposes to take  restraints on competition in Croatia economy-
any major policy action that may significantly  wide, including those that might emanate from
reduce competition within the Croatian economy,  the structure, conduct and performance of
the department/agency must (i) make an      infrastructure and other public services markets;
assessment of the cost and benefits of the  (ii) specifying definitions, standards, rules, and
proposed act)on's of the impact on competition    procedures as regards treatment of horizontal
and (ii) obtain the legal opinion of the Agency for  and vertical restrictive business practices; (iii)
Protection of Market Competition, which, in  clarifying definitions, assessment and treatment
collaboration with the Cabinet of the       of market dominance, concentration, barriers to
Government, will review the competitive impact   entry, geographic and product market
assessment The Conclusion will also specify that  boundaries, and abuse of market power; and
the APMC has the authority to request from any   (iv) strengthening the independence of the
government department/agency a copy of major   APMC, and in so doing clarifying the structure,
draft legislation, regulation or other proposed  position, tasks, authority and relationships of
measures that the APMC believes may         the Agency, Council and Director.
significantly reduce competition).
3.4 To foster the entry of new businesses,                                           -Implement new streamlined rules-based, fixed-  Ministry of Economy,
especially micro, small and medium                                                   fee business licensing and registration    Ministry of Crafts and
enterprises (SMEs).                                                                  procedures including a "one-stop shop" entity    SMEs
[LDP para 341                                                                       for business licenses.
3.5 To strengthen corporate governance                                               -Enact amendments to Company Law and the    CROSEC,
w-   and protection of minority shareholders'                                              Law on Takeover Procedure of Joint Stock
Li   rights [LDP para 371                                                                  Companies and other relevant laws to       Ministry of Finance,
strengthen minority shareholders' rights,
liberalize rules hindering share transfers, ensure  Ministry of Justice, Public
full payment of shares at time of issuance,  Administration and Local
enable more transparent securities trade,  Self-Government
establish consistent rules for issuance of
prospectuses, facilitate companies to quote their
stocks on the stock markets and harmonize
________________________________________  ___________________________________________  corporate governance practices with EU rules
3.6 To reduce barriers to domestic and                                               -Enact a program, including legislation that  Ministry of Economy,
foreign direct investment                                                            reduces various administrative barriers to direct
[LDP para 391                                                                       investment-whether by domestic or foreigners  Ministry of Crafts and
to: (i) simplify the administrative procedures  SMEs,
relating to investor entry and expatriate
employment; (ii) shorten the overall time  Prime Minister's Office
required to process visas and work permits and
extend their duration; (iii) result in the
publication of a single, comprehensive guide to
immigration procedures for investors and
expatriate employees; (iv) simplify
construction-related permits; (v) prepare
subnational guides for construction-related
procedures; (vi) accelerate utility connections;
(vii) introduce mechanisms to increase dialogue
among the various government agencies, and



ANNEX 2
Government's Objectives                                          Core Policy Measures                                      Responsible Agency
Actions before Board Presentation                  Second Tranche
_________________________________________               (Tentative Q3 2002)
between them and the investor community;
(viii) prepare comprehensive official guides to
investment procedures and legislation at the
national and subnational levels.
4. ENHANCING FLEXIBILITY IN THE LABOR MARKET
4.1 To promote labor market flexibility                                              -Enact amendments to the Labor Law that:   Ministry of Labor and
through modifying the legislative                                                    (i) ease preconditions for valid dismissal  Social Welfare
framework. [LDP paras 42-46]                                                         especially in small firms (up to 50 workers); (ii)
relaxes the definition of a mass-lay off so that it
refers the dismissal of no less than 20 workers
within 90 days, (iii) shortens the advanced
notice period to a maximum of three months;
(iv) reduces severance pay (including special
severance pay provisions by applying the
revised formula with the ceiling set at six
monthly salaries; (v) removes the provision
whereby fixed-term contracts can be made only
on an exceptional basis and require a valid
reason; and (vi) reduces the duration of the
maternity leave after which the employer is
obliged to readmit the worker to 12 months.
4.2 To improve employment services to   -Submit to the Parliament amendments to the  -Enact the amendments to the Employment    Ministry of Labor and
v    facilitate labor re-deployment and to    Employment Law to remove existing restrictions   Law that will remove existing restrictions on  Social Welfare
make income support more cost-effective    on the delivery of private employment services    the delivery of private employment services and
and mitigate the adverse consequences of   and raise the threshold which makes a redundant  raise the threshold which makes a redundant
enterprise restructuring                worker eligible for open-ended unemployment  worker eligible for open-ended unemployment
[LDP paras 49 and 54]                   benefit from 30 to 35 years of service for men,    benefit from 30 to 35 years of service for men,
and from 25 to 30 years of service for women.  and from 25 to 30 years of service for women
5. STRENGTHENING SOCIAL PROTECTION
5.1 To develop a national strategy for  -Prepare draft of National Program for the   - Finalize National Program for the Reduction    Ministry of Labor and
poverty reduction and improve           Reduction of Poverty.                        of Poverty, and use the National Census to  Social Welfare
monitoring of poverty [LDP paras 56-57]                                              develop an up-to-date nationally representative   Croatian Bureau of
random sample for the HBS.                 Statistics
5.2 To improve targeting and effectiveness  -Eliminate any arrears and pay regular support  - Keep regular support allowance current,  Ministry of Labor and
of social assistance and of other       allowances, which are well-targeted benefits,  develop an action plan for improving the  Social Welfare
allowances. ILDP paras 59 and 60]       with no delay.                              targeting effectiveness of child allowances, and
harmonize the tax allowances of war veterans,    Ministry of Finance
excluding survivors and higher categories of
disabled war veterans. with that of the rest of
the population.



ANNEX 3
Croatia at a glance                                                            9/21/01
Europe &    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central  middle-
Croatia     Asia  Income       Development dianond
2000
Population, mid-year (&WtiYons                       4.4       475      647                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  4,840     2,010     4,620
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     21.2       956     2,986                      T
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        -0.9      0.1       1.3                    /  \
Labor force (%)                                       -3.1      0.6       2.0     GNI                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of popuiation befow national poverty fine)   8
Urban population (% of total population)               58        67        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       73        69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live birtfhs)               8        21        28
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             .,                              Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   96        90        87
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    ,,         3        10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  99       100       107              Croafia
Male                                                 ..       101      106               Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               ..        99      105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                                             20.3      22.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..      ..      23.4      22.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP             ..       ..      40.6      45.0
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    ..       ..      15.1      16.4
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..       ..      16.5      18.7
Current account balance/GDP                    ..      ..      -6.8      -1.8     Domestic
Interest paymentsiGDP                          ..      ..       2.1       2.1    savings         -            Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ,,      ..      46.0      46.6         ngs
Total debt servicelexports                    ..       ..      17.2      20.9
Present value of debtVGDP                      ..      ..      46.1
Present value of debVexports                  ..       ..    101.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  199040     1999      2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   .      0.6    -0.4        3.7       4.4          -Croatia
GDP per capita                       ..      1.2      0.5       4.4       3.2              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..      5.5      0.7       8.7       3.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(YO of GDPJ
Agriculture                                    ,    10.3        9.7       9.5    40
Industry                                      ..    33.8       33.1      32.8    20
Manufacturing                               ..    27.7        22.4     23.2
Services                                       ..    55.9      57.2      57.7      0
Private consumption                           ..       ..      57.1      57.2    -2
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..      27.8      26.5                   GDI    --e-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..      48.9      50.6
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual gnowth)
Agriculture                                          -2.0      -2.0       1.3    30
Industry                                      ..    -2.5        0.1       1.5    20
Manufacturing                                ..    -3.3       4.1       4.1
Services                                       ..     2.2      -0.3       5.0    10
Private consumption                           ..      2.6      -2.7       4.1     o -          s s    9.7    1    0
Generalgovemmentconsumption                   ..      1.1       0.8      -0.7   -10
Gross domestic investment                     ..      8.4      -2.6      -0.1            -Exports   -lImports
Imports of goods and services                 ..      4.8      -2.7       4.2
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
55



ANNEX 3
Croatia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Doomestic prices                                1980     1990       1999       2000      Intlation I%)
(% change)                                                                               ao150
Consumer prices                                     .        .        4.2       6.2    |
Implicit GDP deflator                                       ..        4.1       6.5
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes cunrent grants)                                                       0          
Current revenue                                             .        47.7      45.2               95    96    97   95    99    00
Current budget balance                              .        .        1.1       -1.4             -'--GDPdeflator   OcPt
Overall surplus/deficit                             .        .       -2 2       -5.2
TRADE
(USS millions)                                  1980     1990        1999      2000       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                                 4,395     4,567      10 ooo- 
Capital goods                                             ..        243       251
Chemicals                                        ..                  338      486       7,500 t
Manufactures                                              ..      2,800     2,751
Total imports (cif)                                                 7,693     7,805       0,000
Food                                                      ..        560       538       2.0
Fuel and energy                                  ..                  804     1,094       ._
Capital goods                                             ..      2,732      2,606         0
94   95  96   97   98 ~9   DO
Export price index (1995=100)..                              .          .         . 
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                        li Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                    .                    ..   |
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                  1980     1990       1999       2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                            6,819      8,118     8,651      10
Imports of goods and services                      .    7,115       9,791     9,598
Resource balance                                   ..    -296      -1,673      -946
Net income                                                -192       -350      -310       0
Net current transfers                                    1,541       632        858
Current account balance                            .    1,053      -1,391      -399         T
Financing items (net)                              .   -1,053       1,769       981         I
Changes in net reserves                                      0       -379      -582      ,1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)              .        ..     3,025     3,525
Conversion rate (DEC, localUS$)                    -         -        7.0        7.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999       2000
(USS millions)                                                                            Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..                9,335    10,448
IBRD                                                      ..       387        395                         A 395
IDA                                                                                                 G 795       c 159
Total debt service                                                  1,596     2,085
IBRO                                                                40         41                                      E /: 116
IDA                                              ..0                            0 o
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants
Official creditors                              ..                  83        154
Private creditors                                         ..       979      1,004
Foreign direct investment                                 ..      1,445       898
Portfolio equity                                 .                 574        733                 F 7.495
World Bank program
Commitments                                      .         .       108         29      A - IBRD                      E - Bil3teral
Disbursements                                    .         .        85         55    |  - IDA     D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Pincipal repayrnents                                      ..         18        22      0 - IMF                       G - Sht-t1Seml
Net flows                                                 ..        67         34
Interest payments                                .         .        22         19
Net transfers                                                       46         14
Development Economics                                                                                                        9/21101
56



ANNEX 4
REUBLIC OF CROATIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare:                   12 months
(b) Prepared by:                             Government, assisted by IBRD staff
(c) Preparation and appraisal missions:      October 2000, January 2001; April 2001
(d) Negotiations:                           June 2001
(e) Planned Board presentation:             November 29, 2001
(f) Planned date of effectiveness/first tranche:    January 2002
(g) Estimated date of second tranche:        September 2002
(h) Expected program completion:             March 2003
57



ANNEX 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CROATIA - OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
As Of Date 06/13/2001
Closed Projects               6
IBRDIIDA 
Total Disbursed (Active)                 288.40
of which has been repaid            5.62
Total Disbursed (Closed)                 206.00
of which has been repaid            38.10
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)        494.40
of which has been repaid            43.76
Total Undisbursed (Active)               226.89
Total Undisbursed (Closed)               0.00
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)      226.89
Active Prolects                                                                                                                      Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                         Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                       Orinilnal Amount in US$ Millions              Disbursements a
Project ID Project Name                             Development   Implementation   Fiscal Year  IBRD          IDA         Cancel.     Undisb.  Orig.   Frm Rev-d
Oblectives       Progress
P008329  Highway Sector Project                           S                S              1995        80        0            0            0        0          0
P008335  Farmer Support Services                          S                S              1996       17         0            2           5.8      7.8         0
P008327  Enterprise Financial Structural Adjustment       S                5              1997       95         0            0          38.3      49         49
Loan
P008334  Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection     S                S              1997       42         0            0           7.4      6.7         0
P044457  Emergency Transport and Landmine                 S                S              1997       102        0            0           7.4     29.5         0
Clearance Project
P040139  Investment Recovery Project                      5                5              1998        30        0           0.9          8.4      14          0
P043444  Municipal Environmental Infrastructure           U                U              1998       36.3       0            0          23.5      5.7         0
P048983  Reconstruction for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja     5                5              1998      40.6        0            0          27.7    22.8          0
and Western Srijem
P039161   Railway Modernization And Restructuring         U                U              1999       101        0            0          61.7    37.8          0
P057767  Technical Assistance Project for Institutional   5                5              1999       7.3        0            0           5.9      1.2         0
and Regulatory Reform for PSD
P051273  Health System                                    5                5             2000        29         0            0          28.2    -0.8          0
P070088  Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast    S                S             2001        13.9       0            0          12.4      1.1         0
Europe
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



s    AUSTRIA   -.--S   sCT
2']  '_._as}   EDI^1>   HUNGARY    6          c R O A T I A
>- ir :a <                                <      7R
<                                     KRA$    rrmc 
F                    >   t  7ZAGoRsKt .-, 6.eZAGORSK                               v I -                  -  REGION BOUNDARIES
o  MAJOR TOWNS
SLOVE    I                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>- RIVERS
a~- 65                                                                               . CK|   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
S - 5 GORA~~~~N.                                            'ESKO- SLAVON5K v
0         50        1o         150
KaOMEIW
(SB MCT)    BJtAm
HERZEG*OVTINAR   ~ 
ti.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C,



