           Document of
         The World Bank




                                    Report No: 28661

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
           (SCL-46410)

             ON A

             LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION

             TO THE

      REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

             FOR A

  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN




          April 28, 2004

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective February 2004)

                      Currency Unit = Kuna
                          US$ 1.00 = HRK5.9

                            FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1     December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
                  WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                            Metric System

                GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 ­ December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APMC              Agency for the Protection of Market Competition
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CIS               Commonwealth of Independent States
DFID              Department for International Development, U.K.
EU                European Union
FDI               Foreign Direct Investment
FIAS              Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GOC               Government of Croatia
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
IAS               International Accounting Standards
IDA               International Development Association
IMF               International Monetary Fund
MTEF              Medium Term Expenditure Framework
PRGF              Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
NPRP              National Poverty Reduction Plan
SAL               Structural Adjustment Loan
TAL               Technical Assistance Loan
SME               Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE               State-Owned Enterprise
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
WTO               World Trade Organization



                     Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu (ECAVP)
                  Country Director     Anand Seth (ECCU5)
                    Sector Director    Cheryl Gray (ECSPE)
                   Sector Manager      Bernard Funck (ECSPE)
    Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Harry Broadman (ECSPE)

                                          CROATIA
                           STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                     Credit No. 46410-HR


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed in Croatia                                  27
Annex 9. Reduction of Subsidies                                                  29

                                              Preface


The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to the Republic of Croatia in the amount of US$202
million was approved on December 4, 2001. It was made effective on February 8, 2002 with the
first (US$102 million) of two tranches disbursed on February 13, 2002. The second tranche was
disbursed in October 24, 2003, approximately one year after the planned date. The loan closed on
October 31, 2003, seven months after the original closing date.

This ICR covers the period that begins with prior actions for the SAL and continues with progress
in the reform program until the date of this report. It focuses on tranche release conditions and
the broader program described in the Letter of Development Policy. The ICR was prepared by
Richard Carroll (consultant) and is based on a field mission in February 2004, interviews with
Bank staff and materials from the project file. Anand K. Seth is the Country Director, Cheryl
Gray is the Sector Director, and Bernard Funck is the Sector Manager for Croatia. Sanja
Madzarevic-Sujster (finance), Jan Rutkowski (labor), Mamta Murthi (social protection), Bruce
Courtney (macroeconomics and finance) and Ilker Domac (task manager through Board
Presentation) were interviewed for this draft report.         Harry Broadman (task manager for
Supervision) had overall responsibility for monitoring the policy matrix for SAL after
effectiveness. Pervaiz Rashid (lead specialist) reviewed the report.

The resident mission and the Government of Croatia provided excellent support to the ICR
mission. A list of people interviewed in the field is given in Annex 8.

Project ID: P067223                                                  Project Name: SAL
Team Leader: Harry G. Broadman                                       TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SAL                                                      L/C/TF Number: SCL-46410
   Country/Department: CROATIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (40%); Central government
                            administration (24%); Compulsory pension and unemployment
                            insurance (18%); Other social services (16%); Compulsory health
                            finance (2%)
                  Theme: Social risk reduction (P); Standards and financial reporting (S);
                            Regulation and competition policy (S); Debt management and fiscal
                            substainability (S); Tax policy and administration (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/11/2001                                     Effective:                           02/08/2002
     Appraisal: 04/16/2001                                         MTR: 11/01/2004                  11/01/2004
      Approval: 12/04/2001                                      Closing: 03/31/2003                 10/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CROATIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:        Bernard Funck - Cheryl W. Gray                 Samuel Otoo - Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:             Harry G. Broadman                              Ilker Domoac
ICR Primary Author:             Richard J. Carroll


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:



        Background


The Croatia Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was launched in a difficult economic
environment. Croatia continues to recover from the damage from the war, which destroyed
nearly a third of the nation's infrastructure and housing, with damage estimates exceeding $25
billion, or about one year's GDP. In the years leading up to the SAL, both unemployment and
debt were rising. Unemployment increased from the 10-11 percent range in 1997-98 to around
17 percent by the time of SAL effectiveness. External debt rose to over 56 percent of GDP in
2000 from only 20.7 percent six years earlier. Part of this debt accumulation resulted from the
rapid expansion of the public sector, which gained 10 percentage points in share of GDP during
1994-99. The public sector had already approached a 60 percent share of GDP by the end of
1999. Arrears to the line ministries and to the private sector were also rising.

The Memorandum of the President (MOP) for the SAL assessed progress in the second stage of
reforms as "patchy." The specific areas cited for needed improvement were reforming public
finances, and improving the flexibility and resilience of the economy, particularly the labor market,
and the enterprise sector. Foreign financing dwindled because of the 1998 Russian crisis and the
Kosovo conflict. GDP growth fell to 2.5 percent in 1998 and minus 0.4 percent in 1999. The
Bank completed a study in February 2000, "Croatia: A Policy Agenda for Reform and Growth."
The study recommended two sets of reforms to improve economic conditions in the short and
medium terms. The first set dealt with measures in the immediate term to reduce macroeconomic
imbalances, increase economic flexibility and create a business-friendly environment that attracts
investment. The second set aimed to improve the efficiency in allocating factors of production by
reducing distortions and providing incentives for domestic saving and investment and promote
educational and technological innovation.

The SAL of US$202 million equivalent was approved by the Board on December 4, 2001 to
continue support to the Government of Croatia's (GOC) economic reform program, and
specifically to support these recommendations. SAL was a two-tranche operation and became
effective on February 8, 2002 with the release of the first tranche. The second tranche was
disbursed in October 2003.

        Objective

The original objectives of Croatia's SAL, as stated in the Report and Recommendation of the
President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, dated October 26,
2001, were to support the GOC's structural reform program to place the economy on a path of
rapid and sustainable growth in the context of macroeconomic stability and prepare its
integration into the European Union. The objectives would be achieved by improving
coordination and management in economic policy making, enhancing fiscal discipline,



                                                  - 2 -

strengthening market institutions and the competitiveness of the economy, enhancing flexibility
in the labor market and strengthening social protection.

SAL objectives matched the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and CAS Progress Report,
which were discussed by the Board in June 1999 and September 2001, respectively. The strategy
was based on supporting and accelerating economy-wide structural and institutional reforms and
alleviating the social consequences of the reform. The objectives appropriately reflected the need
to reduce macroeconomic imbalances, improve social protection, and improve the business
environment, both administratively and through increased labor market flexibility. (See Section
3.5 for additional assessment of the SAL's design).

3.2 Revised Objective:

No revisions.

3.3 Original Components:

The components of SAL were likewise consistent with the main goals of the CASPR and
consisted of:

        1.      Improving Coordination and Management in Economic Policy-Making
        2.      Enhancing Fiscal Discipline
                A.      Budget Management--Subsidies Reduction
                B.      Health
                C.      Pensions
        3.      Strengthening Market Institutions and the Competitiveness of the Economy
                A.      Financial Transparency--Reduction of Arrears and Barter
                B.      Bankruptcy--Business Dispute Resolution--Anti-Corruption
                C.      Competition
                D.      Business Licensing and Registration--SME Development
                E.      Corporate Governance
                F.      Foreign Direct Investment
        4.      Enhancing Flexibility in the Labor Market
                A.      Labor Law
                B.      Employment Law--Labor Market Monitoring
        5.      Strengthening Social Protection
                A.      Poverty Reduction Plan and Monitoring
                B.      Improved Targeting

The SAL-supported program was effectively designed to reduce arrears to ministries and
contractors that had developed from post-war rebuilding, weak financial discipline and generally
too much government in the wrong place, e.g., excessive social protection for less needy
beneficiaries, including many veterans. The rapidly expanding current account deficit would be
combated in part by shrinking the budget deficit. Reducing rigidities in the labor market would
help reduce the chronically high rate of unemployment.




                                                - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

No revisions.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

ICR ­ Satisfactory. One feature that distinguished the SAL from many adjustment operations
was its focus. This SAL was ambitious and required concentrated effort in three areas: fiscal
consolidation, improving the business climate and improving labor market flexibility. These were
the three keys on which the operation needed to focus. Many adjustment operations attempt to
address structural problems across all major economic sectors at once. This strategy can weaken
pressure to reform where reforms are politically difficult, particularly because political capital is
not infinite.

There was an active IMF Stand-by arrangement and the government was increasingly proactive in
implementing the reform program, which allowed for completion of the challenging second
tranche conditions. Also, the SAL formulation and implementation embodied good coordination
with the IMF including overlapping conditionality between the structural reforms of the SAL
Policy Matrix and the Stand-By Letter of Intent. Seventeen of the 34 IMF conditions mirrored
those that were in the SAL Policy Matrix. This mutual reinforcement of programs was important
to successful implementation of many measures, such as enactment of the budget law, a second
tranche release condition.

The SAL MOP presented a number of risks and associated mitigation measures. Political risk was
mainly in the form of implementing difficult and deep structural reforms that would reduce the
generosity of Croatia's welfare state and shift more of the economy from the public to the private
sector. Interest groups such as the unemployed, veterans and pensioners will all pay a price for
reforms in the short-run. The coalition government might also lose power (which it did at about
the time of project close) which could delay reform (a seven month extension of the closing date
was needed to complete tranche conditions, partially attributable, at least, to the upcoming
elections in November 2003). In addition, because the fiscal situation, described above, was so
precarious, policy slippage could be very costly, especially if international financial institutions
(IFIs) reduced their support, and if investor confidence declined. Increasing external debt and
continued heavy reliance on external financing could reach a tipping point, and lead to capital
flight.

The SAL MOP did identify the major risks, which did, in fact, materialize. The main mitigation
against these risks was the strong level of Government commitment. This commitment was
evident in the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister was a champion of the reform program and that
much of the design of the SAL originated in the relevant ministries.

The SAL team recognized that there were trade-offs between a focused and a broader program
and that the overall program might have been strengthened by greater attention to the functioning
of the judiciary. However, the 1999 CAS was unsuccessful in gaining Government agreement to



                                                - 4 -

significant judicial reforms. (The GOC and the Bank are, however, focusing on judicial reform in
the planned Programmatic Adjustment Loan, scheduled for FY05).

QAG ­ Satisfactory. The QAG found the SAL to be well-designed and appropriate to the
priorities of the country. The only cited area of needed improvement was to have had stronger
stakeholder analysis and participation in the SAL preparation. However, in this instance, the
QAG report states that issue-specific meetings with stakeholders were held, mainly in connection
with related investment operations.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of development objectives is rated satisfactory. There were substantial
accomplishments in establishing the institutional mechanisms to achieve greater fiscal
responsibility, economic competitiveness, and labor market flexibility, with progress also in
transparency and accountability in public enterprises, and social protection. The SAL also helped
the GOC to turn around the dangerous build up of arrears to the line ministries and private sector
contractors. The SAL helped substantially improve the mechanisms for interagency policy
formulation and implementation and shift the priorities of the policy dialog. For example, prior to
the SAL-supported program there was little discussion of State Aid (subsidies and guarantees),
and now it is one of the top issues that the Government is addressing.

Macroeconomic Developments

Macroeconomic performance has been positive overall and better than expected in 2002 (Table
1). Real GDP grew by 5.2 percent in 2002 and 4.3 percent in 2003. Inflation was low at 2.2
percent in 2002 and 1.8 percent in 2003. Unemployment fell to 14.1 percent in 2003 from 16.1
percent in 2000. Gross domestic investment increased to 29.1 percent in 2003 from 20.2 percent
in 2000. The Government reduced the fiscal deficit somewhat from 6.5 percent in 2000 to 4.8
percent in 2002, though it increased slightly in 2003 to 5.1 percent.

However, there has been an acceleration in debt accumulation.            Despite fiscal adjustment
measures, sluggish growth in merchandise exports, the depreciation of the US dollar against the
Euro and the rapid growth of imports financed by credit expansion led to a current account deficit
of 8.4 percent of GDP in 2002, and 7.4 percent in 2003. Despite large FDI inflows, the current
account deficit has been mainly financed with external debt, which rose from 57.0 percent of GDP
at the end of 2001 to 83.3 percent of GDP at end 2003, significantly increasing Croatia's external
vulnerability.




                                                 - 5 -

                           TABLE 1: Croatia Macroeconomic Indicators 2000-2003

                         Indicators
                                                        2000        2001        2002          2003

   Real GDP growth (percent change)                              2.9         4.4          5.2          4.3
   CPI, percent (period average)                                 6.2         4.9          2.2          1.8
   Official Unemployment Rate - ILO (%)                         16.1        15.8         14.8      14.1 /1
   FDI, % of GDP                                                 5.9         7.1          2.6          5.9
   Gross Domestic Investment, % of GDP                          20.2        23.9         26.7         29.1
   Government Overall Accrual Balance, % of GDP /2              -5.9        -6.4         -4.5         -5.1
   Government Overall Accrual Balance, % of GDP /3              -6.5        -6.8         -4.8         -5.5
   Public Debt, % of GDP /4                                     52.7        53.3         53.7         55.3
   Total External Debt, % of GDP                                60.0        57.0         67.7         83.3
   CAD, % of GDP                                                 2.5         3.7          8.4          7.2
   Exports of GNFS, % of GDP                                    47.1        48.4         45.3         47.7
   Imports of GNFS, % of GDP                                    52.3        54.5         54.0         57.0
   Gross Official Reserves (months of imports)                   4.4         5.2          5.4          5.8
   Exchange Rate - HRK/US$ (period average)                     8.28        8.34         7.86         6.70



/1 First half of 2003
/2 Source: MoF and WB staff estimates (broad definition of public sector and revised GDP as per official sources)
/3 Source: IMF (narrower definition of public sector)
/4 Includes direct debt, financing outstanding guarantees, arrears and short-term liabilities of the health sector.


Improving coordination and management in economic policy making. Satisfactory. A high
level committee of key cabinet members, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and staffed by a
team of economists was an effective mechanism to keep the reform program on track in the
ministries. Coordination was especially difficult because the (previous) Government in power
during SAL was a multi-party coalition. The new Government is not as diverse and coordination
is expected to be sustained and improved.

Enhancing fiscal discipline. Marginally Satisfactory. The measures to consolidate the budget
and better track how finances were flowing throughout the budget were an essential first step
toward achieving fiscal discipline. The Government could then chart a course for containing
subsidies and guarantees, lower them as a percentage of GDP and pursue Croatia's candidacy for
EU membership. In fact, subsidies have been reduced and consolidating government budgeting
resulted in a revision of official debt from 70 percent to 50 percent of GDP. However, the
pension and health systems are fiscally vulnerable, in part because of the lower contribution rates
of contract workers and informal sector. The age structure of the population itself, with only 1.36
workers per retiree in 2002, is placing enormous pressure on the pension system. More
disconcerting is the Parliament's re-indexing of pensions to wages (see section 4.2) which, if
implemented, will add a significant fiscal strain. The worsening of the external debt level, though
not a specific core objective, either for tranche release or of the LDP, is also disconcerting.
However, while external debt increased drastically in 2003, public debt, which is most relevant to
fiscal discipline, increased much less, 2 percentage points, in 2003.



                                                       - 6 -

Strengthening market institutions and the competitiveness of the economy. Satisfactory.
This area of the reform program was wide ranging. Significant measures have been carried out to
improve the transparency and fiscal responsibility of public institutions, which has led to reduced
arrears and non-payments. The new Law on the Protection of Market Competition brings
Croatia's competition policy legal regime up to the EU standards. Measures were also established
that require that any department/agency that proposes a policy that may significantly reduce
competition must assess the costs and benefits of the action's impact on competition, which the
Agency for the Protection of Market Competition (APMC) must review. These reforms are
expected to reduce the incidence of anti-competitive business practices and reduce unnecessary
regulatory burdens. Corporate governance has been strengthened through the enactment of the
Company Law, which bolsters the rights of minority shareholders and establishes consistent rules
for prospectuses. Administrative barriers to FDI have been reduced and the expected benefits are
shortening overall processing time, improving utility connections and improving the dialog
between investors and the Government. Significant amendments to the bankruptcy law were
passed, which should enhance the exit of value-subtracting firms and make economic space for
new business entry. But the outcome of these amendments, like all legislation that is enacted, will
depend on the improved effectiveness and efficiency of the judiciary, which as noted above,
remains a policy challenge.

Enhancing Flexibility in the Labor Market. Satisfactory. Major progress was achieved in the
legal framework to bring about increased flexibility of the labor markets, which will be a key for
long-term economic growth. The key measure, which were amendments to the Labor Law, took
effect only on January 1, 2004, so there is no data to show the benefits. However, it is clear that
there were serious rigidities in the labor market, such as making it far too expensive and difficult
to fire workers, restrictions on fixed-term hiring, and excessive maternity leave. These serious
disadvantages to the competitiveness of Croatian labor have been substantially reduced. Some
implementation concerns have been raised about Government follow through and labor union
resistance. These are addressed in the Sustainability section 6.1.

Strengthening Social Protection. Satisfactory. The National Poverty Reduction Plan (NPRP)
was adopted and household survey (HBS) capacity improved. The Ministry of Health and Social
Welfare is using the HBS data to improve targeting. The social protection system was
strengthened through the payment of arrears.

                                    TABLE 2: SAL Tranche Releases

                                                   Planned Amount      Actual Amount
   Tranche        Expected Date     Actual Date     (m. US$ equiv.)   (m. US$ equiv.)
        1            12-31-2001      2-13-2002          102.0/a             102.0
        2             9-30-2002       10-24-03          100.0               100.0
     Total                                              202.0/a             202.0
Includes $2 million front end fee.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The outputs for the SAL are considered satisfactory. All first tranche conditions were fully met.



                                                 - 7 -

Of the 17 second tranche conditions, 15 were fully met and 2 were substantially met, which are
discussed below.

Improving Coordination and Management in Economic Policy-Making

The Government set up a policy coordination body that consists of the Prime Minister, three
Deputy Prime Ministers, and the Secretary of the Government, with the purpose of improving
coordination and consensus building across all ministries. A team of experts supported this
coordination body within the office of the Deputy Prime Minister for economic policy. These
experts were not retained by the new Government in that position, but have since been taken up
by Office for Development Strategy. The department of International Financial Institutions (IFIs)
at the MOF also played an important role in improving coordination at the technical level.

Enhancing Fiscal Discipline

Subsidies were reduced from 4.8 percent to 3.0 percent of GDP during 2000-03 (see Annex 9).
A new, comprehensive Budget Law was adopted that is expected to form the basis of improved
public finance management for the foreseeable future. Budget processes became much more
transparent with transactions between public enterprises and the government publicly reported
and on a cash basis as opposed to using offsets. In all, a clearer picture of the country's fiscal
situation was gained. The multi-year budget is now required by law, but has not been
implemented yet. The budget has moved to a modified accrual basis, which better reflects the
arrears situation. Table 3 below measures the progress in reducing a major category of arrears.
The progress is substantial, but not complete and that is why this condition was only substantially
met. The public debt also increased during the SAL period from 53.3 percent to 55.3 percent of
GDP from 2001 to 2003.

Health. A Health Insurance Law was enacted in October 2001 and became effective in January
2002. The law increased co-payments for drugs and introduced co-payments for selected health
services,. The law also reduced exempted categories for co-payments to 50 percent of population
(children up to 18 years old, the disabled, war invalids from the Homeland War, and persons with
lower income per family member than the amount determined by the decree of Ministry of Health
and Social Welfare.

Pensions. The Law on Obligatory Contributions was enacted in December 2002, and became
effective from January 2003. Eligible non-wage labor income excludes honoraria paid on the
basis of authorship contracts according to Law on Authorship Rights (Article 9) and students'
income. The monitoring system in place suggested one-tenth of potential contributors were being
excluded from paying obligatory contributions. The amendments to the Law on Pension
Insurance were passed and became effective in December 2002. They (i) reduced the minimum
pension accrual rate on all categories of pensions from 0.825 to 0.4125 percent of gross wages in
1998, but only for service years above 30; (ii) introduced the same annual decrement for early
retirees on the minimum pension as exists for other pensioners; (iii) increased compliance by
basing pension accruals on paid contributions only for self-employed who are responsible for
paying their own contributions. Overall compliance has been improved with the introduction of



                                                 - 8 -

the second pillar funds and RS form.

There was a policy reversal in March 2004 when Parliament amended the Law on Pension
Insurance. The amendment linked pension increases to wage increases. The Government
estimates that this indexation will increase government spending by HRK23 billion ($4 billion)
over the next 10 years. This will require either substantial increases in contribution rates or higher
fiscal deficits. The pension share of GDP will remain above 13 percent instead of below as
planned. The second pillar of the pension system will also be seriously undermined as workers
face higher transition costs. Based on recent events, therefore, if this subcomponent were to be
rated separately, it would be unsatisfactory.

Strengthening Market Institutions and the Competitiveness of the Economy

Financial Transparency--Reduction of Arrears and Barter. The main condition here was
that ten public enterprises, i.e. INA, HEP, Postal Service Company, HZ, Telecommunications
Company, HS, Narodne Novine, Jadrolinija, Plovput, and Insurance Company were to clear
arrears and settle accounts payable and receivable. Satisfying of arrears was a condition that was
delayed and substantially met. Residual arrears persisted among the public enterprises, but it was
also made clear who owed what to whom. Arrears never reached zero, and new ones would
occasionally arise. Pressure to accumulate arrears is increasing as the debt accumulation
intensifies.

        Table 3: Reduction in Public Enterprise Arrrears to Suppliers, 2000-03

                                          Overdue payables to suppliers
                                                     (000 HRK)

                                   Dec-00         Dec-01           Dec-02      Jun-03
Cro Railways (HZ)                  498,493        183,619          138,565      36,807
Cro Electricity Co. (HEP)          803,121        408,116          432,428     424,356
Cro Forests (HS)                   110,106          72,790          65,670      55,290
Shipping Co. (Jadrolinija)         131,489        101,485           36,309      58,791
Cro Post (HP)                       19,892            5,704         10,403       1,038
Official Gazette (NN)                4,415            2,939          4,403       2,467
Cro Telecom (HT)                    28,389          14,362            N/A        N/A
Cro Oil Co. (INA)                  654,736        157,015           50,232      46,677
Lighthouse (Plovput)                22,056               76          1,408       8,558
Cro Insurance Co.                  134,387        100,921           94,502           0
TOTAL                            2,407,084      1,047,027         833,820     634,029
% change over previous period                          -56.5         -20.4       -24.0
% change over December 2000                                          -65.4       -73.7

        Source: World Bank Resident Mission, Croatia Ministry of Finance




                                                   - 9 -

Bankruptcy--Business Dispute Resolution--Anti-Corruption. The amendments to the
Bankruptcy Law were passed on July 18, 2003. These amendments are expected to improve the
institutional capacity of the bankruptcy system. Specifically, the amendments are expected to (i)
expand court capacities through strengthening of bankruptcy judges' authority; (ii) increase the
number and the quality of bankruptcy trustees and related professionals (through higher education
requirements including a trustee exam); and (iii) increase efficiency in processing bankruptcy cases
(the Law removes the current structure of having three judges on a bankruptcy council in addition
to the bankruptcy judge in the case). The success of the law will depend heavily on the judicial
handling of bankruptcy cases. In addition, Parliament adopted the Arbitration Law.

Competition. The new Competition Law was enacted on July 15, 2003 and is consistent with
the EU standards. In order to enlarge its institutional capacity, the APMC successfully secured
financing from the budget to hire several professionals in the first half of 2003. The APMC is also
benefiting from the TA received under the Community Assistance for Reconstruction,
Development and Stabilization (CARDS) program. Responsibility for reviewing and authorizing
subsidy requests has now been transferred to the APMC from the MOF. With their increased
capacity, APMC is expected to, independently, carry out appropriate cost-benefit calculations of
proposed actions' impact on competition as well as render legal opinions.              The APMC is
preparing its first review of state aid in Croatia for submission to the EU.

Business Licensing and Registration--SME Development. A Rulebook on the Registration in
the Court Registry adopted by the Government in October 2002 streamlined registration
procedure for companies and SMEs. The condition for establishing one-stop-shopping for SMEs
licenses was not fully implemented because of inconsistencies between the condition and the
framework of Croatia's local governments. However, the time to process business licenses is
efficient so the impact of the non-implementation of this condition was minimal. Amendments to
the Law on Court Fees adopted by the Parliament in February 2003 reduced the registration
costs. The process of registration for crafts and cooperatives is facilitated by the establishment of
the registry of crafts and cooperatives available to every local office in charge of crafts and
cooperatives registration.

Corporate Governance. The amendments to the Company Law were enacted on July 14, 2003,
an important step for Croatia toward EU accession. The law has been harmonized with the EU
standards and prevailing European practices, in accordance with Croatia's obligations from the
Stabilization and Association Agreement with the European Union. In particular, the Company
Law has been amended to: (i) strengthen protection of minority shareholder rights; (ii) facilitate
shares transferability; (iii) full payment of shares at issuance; and (iv) harmonization of corporate
disclosure requirements with the Corporate Governance Codex.

Foreign Direct Investment. The Government-approved program (in February 2002) included
most of the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) study recommendations on reducing
administrative barriers to investment. Legislative and administrative changes under the program
that have been completed and are listed in Annex 1. This condition to reduce administrative
barriers for domestic and foreign investors was only "substantially met" because the Law on
Spatial Planning that aims to abolish the location permit and thus reduce the overall construction



                                                  - 10 -

cost and the number of construction permits required was still pending Parliamentary approval.

   TABLE 4: Overview of SAL Components, Issues, Actions and Major Outcomes

     Components            Issues/Objectives                  Actions                       Outcomes
 1. Improving
 Coordination and
 Management in
 Economic Policy
 Making
 (Satisfactory)
                      Strengthen inter-agency     High level policy committee    Coordination was improved,
                      policy-making processes     was established and chaired by and though it was largely
                      and structures.             the Deputy Prime Minister.     dependent on the DPM who
                                                                                 has left office, is expected to
                                                                                 improve further because the
                                                                                 new government is not as
                                                                                 factionalized as the previous.
2. Enhancing Fiscal
Discipline (Marginally
Satisfactory)
                      Improve the budget process. Consolidated government budget Resulted in much more
                                                                                 accurate budgeting, e.g.,
                                                                                 government estimate of
                                                                                 public debt was adjusted
                                                                                 from 70% to 50% of GDP
                                                                                 as a result. Adopted a
                                                                                 modern and comprehensive
                                                                                 Budget Law that sets the
                                                                                 requirements for internal
                                                                                 audit and controls. MTEF,
                                                                                 public debt ceiling, etc.
                       Improve the health care    Pass health and pension laws    Expected to improve
                       and pension systems to     and amendments. Health care     financial soundness of
                       strengthen fiscal          co-payments increased and       pensions and health care.
                       discipline.                co-payment exemptions           Closer link established in
                                                  restricted to 50% of the        pensions between
                                                  population. For pensions,       contributions and benefits
                                                  main action was to decrease     with pension accruals based
                                                  minimum accrual rate for        only on paid contributions.
                                                  contributions, levy             There was a partial reversal
                                                  contributions on non-wage       of pension reforms in March
                                                  income and no increase on       2004 when Parliament
                                                  deductible income for pensions amended the law on Pension
                                                  (HRK2,500).                     Insurance which
                                                                                  re-established the wage
                                                                                  indexation of pensions.




                                                  - 11 -

    Components           Issues/Objectives                    Actions                     Outcomes
3. Strengthen
Market Institutions
and the
Competitiveness of
the Economy
(Satisfactory)
                    Improve transparency and       Settle arrears and accounts   Substantially accomplished
                    fiscal accountability of key   receivable/payable between    with improved accounting
                    public enterprises             PEs and between PEs and       system in place. However,
                                                   Govt.                         new arrears are emerging.
                    Facilitate the bankruptcy    The amendments to the          Expected to increase court
                    process.                     Bankruptcy Law were passed on capacity, improve quality
                                                 July 18, 2003.                 of bankruptcy professionals
                                                                                and efficiency of
                                                                                bankruptcy cases.
                                                                                Outcome dependent on
                                                                                implementation by the
                                                                                judiciary.
                    Strengthen government        Enactment of new Competition A new Competition Law
                    capacity to promote          Law in line with EU practice.  was enacted. At the same
                    inter-enterprise competition.Strengthen the APMC and carry time, the APMC has been
                                                 out C-B analysis of policy     given greater economic and
                                                 actions and base opinions on   legal expertise. The
                                                 that analysis.                 effectiveness of these
                                                                                reforms cannot be judged
                                                                                at present as they have only
                                                                                recently been implemented.
                    Enhance entry of new         Streamline licensing and       The condition was met to
                    businesses, esp. SMEs.       registration. Establish        streamline registration.
                                                 one-stop-shopping arrangement. The goal of
                                                                                one-stop-shopping for SME
                                                                                business licensing was not
                                                                                fully met because of an
                                                                                inconsistency between the
                                                                                condition and the country's
                                                                                local government
                                                                                framework. Registration
                                                                                time is reasonable,
                                                                                however.
                    Reduce barriers to domestic Implement FIAS study            The condition was
                    and foreign direct           recommendations.               substantially met. There was
                    investment.                                                 mixed success, however, with
                                                                                the provision facilitating the
                                                                                granting of location permits,
                                                                                which is still on the
                                                                                Parliament's agenda.




                                                 - 12 -

      Components             Issues/Objectives                    Actions                      Outcomes
  4. Enhancing
  Flexibility in the
  Labor Market
  (Satisfactory)
                        Increase labor market         Reduce worker severance         Accomplished with stiff
                        flexibility by making it less benefits, mass lay-off's        opposition and made effective
                        expensive to fire and hire    provision, notification periods January 1, 2004. Expected to
                        workers.                      and other benefits such as      increase employment and
                                                      maternity leave and increase    competitiveness of labor.
                                                      fixed-term contract labor.
  5. Strengthening
  Social Protection
  (Satisfactory)
                        Develop national strategy       Finalize NPRP, eliminate      These were all
                        for poverty reduction and       arrears for social protection accomplished. Project
                        improve effectiveness of        and monitor effectiveness     preparation has improved
                        social assistance.              of targeting                  at the MOHSW with the
                                                                                      use of improved data and
                                                                                      establishment of a national
                                                                                      poverty line.




Enhancing Flexibility in the Labor Market

Significant measures are expected to make it easier and less expensive to fire workers and,
therefore, more attractive to hire workers. Conditions to dismiss workers have been eased
particularly in small firms (less than 50 employees), with "mass lay-off" defined as laying off at
least 20 workers within a 90-day period. Provisions for notice of dismissal have been reduced to
3 months. Severance pay ceiling has been reduced to 6 months of salary (from two years).
Fixed-term contracts became less restricted and maternity leave was reduced to 12 months. Most
of the relevant TA required for this component was provided by the Bank staff. DFID is
financing TA for a Labor Market Survey to strengthen placement services.

Social Protection

The Government implemented all measures in this component including adoption of the National
Poverty Reduction Plan (NPRP). The Croatian Bureau of Statistics (CBS) improved their sample
for the household budget survey (HBS) with some help from the PHRD financed by Japan, mainly
as a result of finalizing the 2001 census data. The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare appear
to be using the updated sample, at least in their preparation of the upcoming Bank-funded Social
Protection Project. The question remains to what degree other line ministries will use the updated
sample. Another question is how open will the CBS be under the new government. The Poverty
Profile for 2001 and 2002 is now posted on the CBS website. The micro level data must be
obtained by official request.




                                                     - 13 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest. Institutional Development is key to Croatia's progress toward EU accession. SAL
conditionality was geared toward this goal, including instituting a system for dealing with
subsidies and arrears that is consistent with EU methodology. Still, the rating for IDI is modest,
which is not a reflection that the accomplishments were modest, but rather that not enough time
has elapsed to ensure that the impact has been substantial. Some of the more important reforms,
such as improved flexibility in the labor market have been in effect for a short time (since the
beginning of 2004). The new government has only recently taken office and more time will be
needed to assess their level of ownership of the SAL-supported reforms. The ICR mission
received mainly positive signs that the new government will support continued reforms toward
EU accession, but the track record will be the ultimate indicator of impact.

Fiscal sustainability measures such as multi-year budgets are expected to yield a substantial
institutional impact, but, again a track record has to build before a substantial rating is supported.
The proper functioning of the judicial system is a key to making the reforms work. It is still
uncertain how well the Croatian judicial system will adjudicate the new bankruptcy and labor
laws.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The main external factor is the national goal of EU accession. This factor works to the benefit of
the reform program as it guarantees reform motivation for the next several years and beyond. In
2007, the Government would like to achieve EU membership. This goal faces two main
challenges: one economic, which is to make the economy more competitive, and one political,
which is to resolve foreign policy and settlement issues arising from the war in the mid-1990s.

Another external factor was the current account balance, which was a major concern of the
stabilization program was aggravated by the appreciation of the Euro against the U.S. dollar, as
the Croatian economy is Euro based.

A positive factor was the strong coordination of the Bank and the Fund who worked closely
together, applying continuous pressure to move the reform agenda forward. The combined
resources of the two institutions also helped secure Government commitment to the program.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

In the reduction of subsidies, the influence of WTO membership played a role as the GOC was


                                                     - 14 -

forced to include indirect subsidies in which the shipyards figure prominently accounting for a
substantial share of GDP.

The Government was supportive of the reform program, but has been reluctant to accept Bank
involvement in the judiciary. Improving the functioning of the judiciary is key to success of past
and future reforms, particularly in improving the business climate.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

In the reduction of subsidies, the influence of WTO membership played a role as the GOC was
forced to include indirect subsidies in which the shipyards figure prominently accounting for a
substantial share of GDP.

The Government was supportive of the reform program, but has been reluctant to accept Bank
involvement in the judiciary. Improving the functioning of the judiciary is key to success of past
and future reforms, particularly in improving the business climate.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original loan amount was US$202 million. The loan was fully disbursed by the extended
closing date of October 31, 2003. The loan was made with a term of 15 years, a 5-year grace
period and level principal repayment at six-month LIBOR for U.S. dollars and a variable spread
for Variable-Rate Single Currency Loans. The borrower was the Republic of Croatia.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the SAL-supported reform program is rated likely, but there are some
uncertainties raised by the new government in power. In particular, the increase in external debt
threatens macro stability and the overall reform program. The Government will need to resist
populist measures that could further undermine fiscal sustainability. The recent passage of
amendments to the Pension Insurance Law that adds fiscal costs by indexing pensions to wages
has caused serious concern. The Government will need to identify fiscal measures to bring the
budget deficit (which exceeded the target for 2003 agreed with the IMF). Some concerns have
also been raised that the new Government may weaken some of the reforms achieved under the
SAL, or that some provisions of the labor reforms may be challenged in court by labor unions. So
far, this concern is only speculative. The SAL-supported reforms have achieved important
institutional and legal gains that will be difficult to reverse in most cases. The planned
Programmatic Adjustment Loan (early FY05) is expected to support sustainability of the reform
program through its focus on administrative and judicial reform. Thus, despite concerns, the
SAL-supported reforms are more likely to be sustained than not.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

One goal is to achieve EU membership by 2007 along with Romania and Bulgaria. Croatia's



                                                    - 15 -

application has not been assed yet by the European Council, but has received a positive avis by
the EU Commission. The Bank will need to continue to play a key role in helping Croatia with
the EU accession. The main issues appear to be political rather than economic at this point.
Croatia will need to make progress in institutional development and harmonizing/benchmarking
standards. The planned PAL's focus on strengthening the judiciary will increase the likelihood
that the bankruptcy laws will be enforced. The PAL will also re-visit public enterprises because of
the need to further improve their financial operations. Related to the PAL, the Second Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL2) will provide international and local expertise in a number of the main
reform areas, including a review of the cost of doing business, assessment of public sector pay and
benefits, and social and economic assessment of shipyard restructuring options.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank responded to the GOC's urgent need for financing and helped design a
reform program that addressed Croatia's priority problems of mounting debt and labor market
rigidities. The Bank also worked well with counterparts, using economic arguments buttressed by
ESW and regional comparisons, that gradually convinced key technical people of the necessity of
reforms. For example, the Bank brought to the attention of the Ministry of Labor (MOL) that
although Croatia was not nearly as wealthy as some Western European countries, nevertheless its
labor protections were beyond the level that such wealthy countries could afford. This approach
worked well in labor market reforms where the GOC and the Bank faced strong opposition from
labor unions to reduce overly generous terms of employment.

The Bank did well coordinating on the reform program with the IMF. The mutually supportive
policy documents (Letter of Intent and the Policy Matrix) and the combined policy resources of
both institutions were critical to gaining Government commitment and ultimately to a successful
reform operation. The Bank could have offered a more systematic risk mitigation plan. In the
MOP, it listed risks without juxtaposing counter measures, so it was not clear how project design
would deal with the very real political risks. The SAL design was consistent with the CAS and
with a good degree of Borrower ownership (See Quality at Entry section). However, the judicial
reforms that were in the 1999 CAS did not materialize in the SAL.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. Bank supervision was critical to the success of the program. It was reported
widely in the Government that although the Government had signed on to the program,
implementation would have stalled without the Bank persistently following up with implementing
agencies and the MOF. The Bank offered important technical assistance, for example in tracking
subsidies, a major activity of the SAL supported program. Bank supervision was successful in
conveying to the GOC the proper understanding of a subsidy and worked continuously with the
Government to meet subsidy levels called for in the Government action plan.

The Bank underestimated the time for implementation, but correctly judged reform progress as
adequate to justify a 7-month extension of the closing date to complete fulfillment of the tranche


                                                - 16 -

conditions (particularly in the labor market). Bank supervision was supported by a number of
sectoral projects, such as the Social Protection Project, that could share the costs of SAL
supervision.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Bank performance at all stages and overall is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The GOC, particularly at the technical level, was open to arguments behind the
reform program that would address their priority economic issues. The GOC agreed to a focused,
but ambitious program that would improve the prospects for medium term growth and make a
serious attempt to curb mounting unemployment and clarify government finances. The borrower
had a high degree of ownership as most of the contents of the policy matrix originated with
individual ministries.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The GOC made efforts to meet SAL legal conditions, and maintained a strong
degree of ownership of the program. The Government coordinated the program well and applied
pressure on line ministries when implementation lagged. Still, interagency coordination may have
been a bit overrated in the PSRs which rated the component as highly satisfactory. In fact the
Party had a large role in the line ministries' implementation and the Deputy Prime Minister and the
high level coordinating committee did face serious challenges.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. Implementing agency performance was stronger in some areas than others. The
MOL with the Office for Social Partnership, for example, carried through politically difficult
reforms and worked well in the tripartite commission to gain sufficient labor union support, or at
least to reduce some resistance. In social protection, the foundation of better targeting has been
laid, but concerns have arisen whether the improved survey information will actually find its way
into policy planning. Early in SAL implementation, the CBS had to go through a learning
experience to appreciate that data were collected for policy input and not merely for their own
sake.

The MOF had fairly weak capacity under the previous government, with a limited number of staff
carrying the burden of implementation. The MOF also relied heavily on the Bank to support the
tracking of subsidies and guarantees. The APMC is expected to take on a much stronger role in
this area. On the positive side, the Department of IFIs worked effectively in implementing the
SAL at the technical level.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. Having fully implemented the program, albeit with continued prodding and two



                                                 - 17 -

extensions, the Government performance is rated satisfactory. The serious concerns of Borrower
Performance have emerged since SAL close.

8. Lessons Learned


Interagency coordination is a key for successful implementation of a cross sectoral
adjustment program. The high level committee staffed by technical experts was established at
the outset of the reform program. It proved essential to the formulation and effective
implementation of the reforms.

A more focused adjustment operation also allows more focused effort and attention on
specific areas so that more ambitious reforms are possible. The Croatia SAL, unlike many
adjustment operations, did not attempt to address structural problems at once across all major
economic sectors. This strategy meant that pressure could be concentrated on politically difficult
reforms like labor market flexibility.

The especially close coordination of the Bank and the Fund helped design and fulfill a bold
reform program. The combined financial resources of the two institutions and the overlapping
conditionality gave strong leverage to the reform program, which government officials reported
was a key factor in the program's success.

Local consultants have good standing among government counterparts and could be used
more widely in Bank operations. The Bank learned in some components (e.g. Social
Protection) that local consultants are highly capable and more knowledgeable about local
conditions. Government counterparts also appreciated working with them.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See attachment 1.


SAL Borrowers comments.pdf


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                - 18 -

10. Additional Information


                TABLE 5: Summary of PSR Ratings for Croatia SAL
                Category            12/01   5/02     12/02   6/03
 PDO                                 S       S        S       S
Implement                            S       S        S       S
Proj. Mgmt.                          S       S        S       S
Financial Covenants                  NR      NR      NR       NR
Other Legal Covenants                NR      NR      NR       NR
 M&E                                 S       S        S       S




                                          - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


See Attachment 2.




annex1.doc




                                        - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                       Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                       Estimate        Estimate      Appraisal
             Project Cost By Component                 US$ million    US$ million
 BOP/Budget Support                                      202.0           202.0         100%

 Total Costs                                             202.0           202.0         100%

 Total Financing Required                                202.0           202.0         100%



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

 Expenditure Category            ICB       Procurement Method           N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                             NCB           Other
 1. BOP/Budget Support                                     202.0                   202.0
   Total Costs                                             202.0                   202.0
    Total Financed by IDA                                  202.0                   202.0




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
    Expenditure Category         ICB       Procurement Method           N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                             NCB       Other /b
 1. BOP/Budget Support                                     202.0                   202.0
 Total Costs                                               202.0                   202.0
 Total Financed by IDA                                     202.0                   202.0



                    Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Component              Appraisal Estimate                 Actual                     Percentage
of
                                                                                       Appraisal
BOP/BUdget Support     IDA    Govt.   CoF.           IDA   Govt.   CoF.           IDA   Govt.
CoF
                       202.0                         202.0                        100.0




                                              - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               February 2001             5     TTL, E, H, PSD, L                    S               S
                                         5     TTL, E, H, PSD, L                    S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               September 2001            8     TTL, E. H, PSD, L                    S               S


 Supervision
               December 2001              5    TTL, E, L, PSD, H                    S               S
               May 2002                   3    TTL, E, L                            S               S
               December 2002              2    TTL, E, PSD                          S               S
               March 2003                 3    TTL, E, L                            S               S
               June 2003                  4    TTL, E, L, PSD                       S               S

 ICR
               February 2004             1     E                                    S               S

TTL-Task Team Leader, E-Economist, H-Health specialist, PSD-Private Sector Development specialist,
L-Labor market specialist.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               69.0                          278.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    46.2                          173.6
  Supervision                              55.0                          202.6
  ICR                                        2.0                           17.2
  Total                                   170.2                          671.9




                                               - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Republic of Croatia, May 24, 2002.

Program Document For a Proposed Structural Adjustment Loan in the Amount of US$202.0 to
the Republic of Croatia, October 26, 2001.

Loan Agreement for SAL, December 5, 2001.

Project Status Reports from supervision missions (Project File)

Country Economic Memorandum: A Strategy for Growth Through European Integration, July
2003.

IMF Staff Reports

Other Project Files




                                             - 26 -

Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed in Croatia

Parliament
Mr. Slavko Linic (former Deputy Prime Minister and main counterpart for SAL)

Ministry of Finance
Ms. Martina Dalic, State Secretary
Mr. Josip Kulisic, Assistant Minister
Mr. Ivan Novacic, Assistant Minister
Mr. Hrvoje Radovanic, Assistant Minister

State Audit Office
Ms. Lidija Pernar, Assistant Auditor General

Medika
Mr. Damir Kustrak (former Deputy Minister of Finance and SAL counterpart)

Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
Mr. Nino Zganec, State Secretary

Government-Office of the Coordination for Economy
Ms. Bozica Lapic, Head of the Office
Mr. David Culpepper, Advisor to the Deputy Prime Minister

Ministry of Economy, Labor and Employment
Ms. Vera Babic, State Secretary

Mr. Robert Markt, Investment Facilitating Division (FIAStudy)

Central Bureau of Statistics
Mr. Marijan Gredelj, Director General
Ms. Mila Butigan, Assistant to the Head

Regos
Ms. Andelka Buneta, Director

Office for Social Partnership
Mr. Vitomir Begovic

Agency for Protection of Market Competition
Mr. Nikola Popovic, Member of Council
Ms. Vesna Poklipec, Member of Council
Mr. Mladen Cervac, Independent Advisor-Office of the President of the Council




                                             - 27 -

CROSEC
Ms. Nada Merkas, Commissioner

IMF
Mr. John Norregaard, Resident Representative

World Bank
Ms. Indira Konjhodzic
Ms. Sanja Madzarevic-Sujster




                                            - 28 -

                     ANNEX 9: Reduction in Subsidies as a Percentage of GDP

As % of GDP)                    2000        2001        2002      Rev. Budget   MOF Action Plan
                                                                     2003        EST. 2003
DIRECT SUBSIDIES                4.11        3.15         3.03        2.89           2.82
 Shipbuilding                   0.36        0.25         0.15        0.52
 Transport                      1.39        1.08         0.74        0.73
     - shipping                 0.15        0.23         0.17        0.21
     - Cro.railways             0.90        0.49         0.24        0.34
     - Cro.Airlines             0.02        0.10         0.08        0.08
     - sea ports                0.06        0.03         0.03        0.00
     - airports                 0.04        0.01         0.01        0.00
     - river ports and fleets   0.02        0.00         0.00        0.00
     - buses                    0.03        0.00         0.00        0.00
     - road                     0.19        0.21         0.21        0.09
 Other industry                 0.58        0.23         0.08        0.10
 Tourism                        0.24        0.18         0.03        0.00
 Agriculture                    1.21        0.99         0.94        0.83
 Water Management               0.23        0.13         0.13        0.00
 SMEs                           0.07        0.05         0.07        0.02
 Export subsidy                 0.01        0.11         0.10        0.30
 Guarantee agency               0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
 SOEs (HEP, HP. other)          0.00        0.00         0.02        0.01
 HPB                            0.00        0.12         0.15        0.07
 Guarantee reserve              0.00        0.00         0.43        0.32
 Employment                     0.00        0.00         0.21        0.00



INDIRECT SUBSIDIES              0.67        0.60         0.00         0.0            0.0
 Shipbuilding                   0.51        0.00         0.0          0.0
 Transport                      0.01        0.00         0.0          0.0          0.0
 Other industry                 0.01        0.24         0.0          0.0          0.0
 Tourism                        0.09        0.00         0.0          0.0          0.0
 Agriculture                    0.05        0.36         0.0          0.0          0.0
 Water Management               0.00        0.00         0.0          0.0          0.0
 SMEs                           0.00        0.00         0.0          0.0          0.0
 Export subsidy                 0.00        0.00         0.0          0.0          0.0
 Local Govt                     0.00        0.00         0.0          0.0          0.0
TOTAL SUBSIDIES                 4.77        3.75         3.03        2.89           2.82

BDP (HRK)                    152,518,827 165,639,462 179,000,000  192,000,000    192,000,000




                                                   - 29 -

- 30 -

