Report No. PID9866
Project Name                     The Republic of Croatia-Structural...
Adjustment Loan (SAL)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       HRPE67223
Borrower                         The Republic of Croatia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           January 5, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 2001
Projected Board Date             May/June, 2001
Country Background
1. In October 1993, Croatia launched a stabilization program, which
succeeded in defeating hyper-inflation and stabilizing the exchange
rate. The initial stage of the program consisted of, inter alia,
prudent anti-inflationary monetary and fiscal policies, liberalization
of the foreign exchange market, greater realignment of prices of public
utilities with respect to cost, and more effective control of public
sector wages. In the following four years, during which inflation was
relatively low and the exchange rate remained stable, the country
enjoyed stronger economic growth GDP grew at an annual rate of over 6
percent. But progress in the second stage of the program, involving
structural reforms necessary to ensure long-term economic stability and
sustainable growth has, however, been patchy. More specifically, the
progress with reforming public finances, improving the flexibility and
resilience of the economy, particularly in labor market development, and
addressing structural problems in the enterprise sector has been slower-
than-desired.
2. It is true that an economic recovery based largely on private
consumption and exports is underway from the 1999 recession, with real
GDP growth expected to grow by 3.5 in 2000; and the financial sector is
in better shape, with confidence in the banking system strengthening. In
addition, the country also took steps toward closer integration with the
world economy which included: (i) completion of WTO membership; (ii)
acquisition of trade concessions form the EU; (iii) a free trade
agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will become effective after
being signed in early 2001. However, the policy objectives of resumption
of enduring growth, safeguarding social stability, and employment
creation all hinge on the implementation of credible public sector
fiscal discipline and structural reforms aimed at elimination of
distortions that undermine efficient resource allocation and hinder
competition. Attaining these objectives will be crucial not only for
placing Croatia on a sustainable growth path, but also for converging
towards and joining the EU.
3. The Croatian authorities realize the significance of these



challenges and are determined to collaborate with international
financial institutions towards successful implementation of their reform
agenda. To this end, the Government has reached an agreement with the
IMF on a stand-by arrangement in December 2000. The Fund program
contains, inter alia, short-term elements aimed at addressing
macroeconomic imbalances with particular emphasis placed on fiscal
adjustment, wage discipline, and implementation of structural reforms in
the context of continued exchange rate stability. Concurrently, the
Government has formally requested a SAL from the World Bank, which will
complement the IMF program and focus on key medium term structural and
institutional reforms.
Objectives
4. This operation aims to complement the IMF's stand-by arrangement
by assisting the Government to undertake the structural reforms
necessary to lay the foundation for renewed economic growth and to
maintain macroeconomic stabilization over the medium-term. It will also
provide the financing necessary to provide an adequate level of public
services during the difficult fiscal adjustment period.
Description
5. The operation supports economy-wide structural reforms aimed at
(i) strengthening institutions and incentive structures, including
greater fiscal discipline, to increase the competitiveness of the
economy and (ii) enhancing labor market flexibility and the social
safety net.
Financing
6. It is anticipated that the operation will be in the amount of
US$200 million, in two tranches of US$100 million [tbd].
Implementation
7. The primary counterparts are various Ministries and other
Government agencies such as Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy,
Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Crafts and SME, Ministry of Transport
and Communication, Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, Croatian
Employment Bureau, Agency for Market Competition, CROSEC among others.
Reforms to be supported under the Bank operation will be implemented
through a variety of mechanisms, including inter-agency working groups
and on-going technical assistance operations. Bank experts will assist
the relevant officials and working groups.
Sustainability
8. Key to the sustainability of the proposed operation will be strong
progress on the overall structural reform agenda and maintenance of
macroeconomic stability. Both of these are supported under the proposed
SAL.
Poverty Category
-2-



9. The operation will support immediate and longer-term poverty
reduction through several channels. Its support for macroeconomic
stability will reduce the risk of shocks which can adversely affect the
living standards of the poor. By creating confidence, it will allow
Croatia to mobilize additional foreign financing, thus reducing the
demand contraction needed to maintain external stability. Its support
for efficiency enhancement will promote longer-term poverty reduction
through faster economic growth. Its support for measures aimed at
strengthening the social safety net will mitigate social costs of the
reforms and safeguard people who are already disadvantaged. These
measures will be accompanied by those directed at improving poverty
monitoring and targeting. Finally, the proposed SAL will include
measures to eliminate impediments to the flexibility of labor market and
disincentives to job creation, which, in turn, promote a more dynamic
labor market and employment.
Environmental Aspects
10. The Loan would have no direct impact on the environment and (in
line with operational OD4.02 and 8.60) has been placed in category C,
which does not require an environmental assessment.
Program Objective Categories
11. Fiscal Reform; Institutional Reforms; Labor and Social Reforms
Contact Point:
Ilker Domac
Program Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-0032
Fax No.:         (202) 522-2775
-3 -



