DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
FILE COPY
Report No. 61a-MLI
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALI
REC fls E~T[1X  TiC3 
Box N1Fi L`i -
April 3, 1973
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept respornsibility for the
accuracy or completeneas of the report.



Currency Equivalents:
Ourrency Unit    =  Mali Franc (MF)
US$1.00           =  MF 460
Fiscal Year:
January 1 - December 31
weights and Measures: Metric System
Metric                   Britise/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (ké2) =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)           =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BCEOM       - Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements
d'Outre-Mer (consultants, France)
CFM         - Regie du Chemin de Fer du Mali
CMTR        - Compagnie Malienne de Transport Routier
DPW         - National Directorate of Public kbrka
FED         - European Development Fund
ILO         - International Labour Office
Kez         - Kez Inbernational Ltd. (consultants, Canada)
UNDP        - United Nations Development Programme
U&IJD       - United States Agency for International Development
Tractionel - Societe de Traction et d'Electricite (consultants, Belgium)
vpd         - vehicles per day



MAL I
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND IIIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMIARY ...- ............................................ i -
1.   INTRODUCTION ........................   ...............                  1
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                          ..                           2
A. The Transport Systemn .........                                      2
B.  Transport Policies and Coordination.                                3
- Background .....................................,                 3
- Control and Regulatory Measures ..............3.......            3
- Sector Performance ..................................            4
- Institutional Responsibilities.                                  5
3. HIGHWAYS ...............,.....                                             5
A. The; Network                         . . .5
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Road Transport ..........             6
C.  Administration ........................... *  ... .....            6
D. Mtaintenance                      . . .                              7
E.  Engineering and Construction .          . .............. ........   8
F. Financing...                                                         8
G. Planning and Sector Priorities                  ...                  9
4. ThL PROJECT...                                                             9
A. Description ..                                                       9
- Improvement of Paved Roads    .               .10
- Continuation of the Highway Maintenance and Feeder
Road Betterment Progra    .                .10
- Purchase of Road Maintenance Equipment ............. 
- Detailed Engineering  1.                   .
- Study of Trucking Industry .........................    12
B. Cost Estiniates    ..12
C. Execution and Procurement    .                  .13
D.  Financing and Disbursements ..........................    14
L. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .15
A. General .15
3. Improvement of Paved Roads .16
C.  Ilighway Maintenance and Feeder Road Betterment
Continuation of Technical Assistance and Training ....             17
D. Highway Maintenance Equipment .17
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....................    17
This report was prepared by Messrs. J. Il. Doyen (Engineer/Economist, PMWA)
and A. Weckerle (Economist).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
TABLES:
1.  Hlighway Network:  1972
2.   Fuel Consumption:  1964-1971
3.   Motor Vehicle Fleet:  1965-1971
4.   Highway Expenditures and Financing:  1968-1972
5.   Maintenance Budget
6.   Estimated Contribution of Road Users to Governmetit
Revenues: 1971
7.   Design Standards:  Bamako-Bougouni and Bamako-Segou Roads
8.   Technical Assistance Requiremrents for llighway Maintenance
and Feeder Road Betterment Program
9.   Equipment Requirerments:  1974
10.   Project Cost Estimates
11.   Tentative Financing of Project Costs
12.   Estiraatea Schtedule of Disbursemnents
13.   Economic Returns on Improvement Works
14.   Vehicle Operating Costs
CIART:    Organization of the National Directorate of Public Works
(Worl Bank 6939R)
MAP:      MALI - llighway Network and Transportation Systemn (IBRD 2855R)



MALI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMHARY
i.        The economy of NMali is primarily rural:  agriculture, livestock,
and fishing account for about 45% of the Gross Domestic Product, and employ
almost 90% of the population. The transport system plays a vital role in the
economy, linking areas of production, consumption, and imxport/export. Three
main elements comprise the system: (a) a primary netwcrk, consisting of
3,100 km of all-weather roads; (b) a 640 km railway line from the capital,
Bamako, to the port of Dakar in Senegal via the rail system of that country;
and (c) the Niger River which flows through the most economically active region
of Mali, and which is navigable for about seven months each year. This trunk
system is complemented by an extensive network of secondary roads and tracks
which provide access to rural areas.
ii.       The Goverument of Mali exerts considerable control over both do-
mestic and international trade. Its main strategy in transport is to improve
the efficiency of the railway which presently carries about 60%. of all import/
export traffic, to rehabilitate and improve the primary road network to satisfy
increasing traffic requirements, and to maintain and imiprove rural roads.
iii.      To support the Government in realizing these objectives, the Bank
Group in 1966 made its first lending for transport (Credit 95-MLI, US$9.1
million) to help rehabilitate and modernize the railway.  The recommendations
of a transport survey financed by the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) formed the basis for a second operation (Credit 197-MLI, US$7.7 million,
1970) for improvement of highway maintenance, betterment of 1,450 km of agri-
cultural feeder roads, and preinvestment studies for improvement of the two
main trunk roads, Bamako-Segou and Bamako-Bougouni, totalling about 380 km.
The Association is now proposing to lend for two further operations in Mali's
transport sector: (a) a second railway project to iaclude additional equip-
ment and track renewal, and (b) a second highway project appraised in this
report.
iv.       The proposed project includes:  (a) improvement of the Bamako-Segou
and Bamako-Bougouni roads studied under Credit 197-MLI; (b) continuation of
the ongoing program of highway maintenance and betterment of feeder roads
with additional technical assistance and training and a second lot of road
maintenance equipment; (c) detailed engineering for upgrading of the Bamako-
Kolokani road (120 km); and (d) a study of Mali's trucking industry. The
total cost of the project is estimated on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding, at US$20.5 million equivalent, including foreign exchange
costs of US$14.7 million. The financing arrangements are as follows: an IDA
Credit of US$9.5 million, of which US$9.05 million would cover part of the
foreign costs, and US$450,000 part of the local costs; a loan of US$6.6 mil-
lion from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to
help finance part of the foreign and local costs; and a contribution from



Mali in the amount of US$4.4 million equivalent to cover the remaining local
costs.   The investments are of high priority and are economically sound;
the overall return is about 30%.
v.        USAID will finance the total cost, net of taxes, of improving the
Bougouni road, and about US$1.5 million worth of road ma4ntenance equipment.
The contribution from the Association will help finance the Segou road; the
services of consultants for supervision of construction of both the USAID-
and the IDA-financed roads, for technical assistance and training, for the
engineering studies, and for the study of the trucking industry; and about
US$850,000 worth of highway maintenance equipment. lhe contract for construc-
tion of the IDA-financed road will be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Consultants will be employed
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. The National
Directorate of Public Works (DPW) will be responsible for project execution.
vi.       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Credit of
US$9.5 million to the Government of Mali on conventional IDA terms.



MALI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Bank Group involvement in the transport sector of Ilali began in
1966 with an IDA Credit (95-MLI) of US$9.1 million which ]nelped finance a
program for rehabilitation and modernization of the railwiay. During appraisal
of that project, the need for a broad transport survey was noted, and in 1967,
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) agreed to finance such a sur-
vey with the Bank acting as executing agency. The Belgian consultants,
Tractionel, were retained to carry out the survey, and submitted their final
report in July 1969. The main recommendations for highwas concerned the
need to improve maintenance, to rehabilitate aging trunk roads, and to im-
prove feeder roads. These recommendations provided a blueprint for IDA's
first lending operation for highways in Miali, a maintenance project financed
by a US$7.7 million Credit (197-MLI, June 1970).
1.02      That project included a four-year program for improvement of highway
maintenance and for betterment of about 1,450 km of agricultural feeder roads;
it also provided for feasibility studies and detailed engineering for strength-
ening and rehabilitation of Mali's two main trunk roads linking Bamako with
Bougouni to the:south and Segou to the northeast. Execution of the mainten-
ance element of the project is progressing satisfactorily. A new central
workshop has been constructed, and most items of maintenance and workshop
equipment have been delivered. MIaintenance activities are now programmed
by the newly established Office of Planning and Control in the Department
of Roads and Bridges. Feeder roads are being cleared and graded by the
mechanized betterment brigades, and an extensive training program for
maintenance personnel at all levels is underway. The féasibility studies
were completed in February 1972 by the consultants Kez Intternational Ltd.
of Canada (Kez); detailed engineering was completed in March 1973. Almost
85;O of- the Credit has been disbursed, and the entire project should be com-
pleted well before the Closing Date of March 31, 1976.
1.03      Execution of the railway project (para 1.01) has been less satis-
factory than expected; project implementation has lagged behind schedule,
and consequently, operational and financial benefits have not been as an-
ticipated. The Governnment has recently taken a number of steps to correct
the situation, and project execution should improve in the future. A second
railway project appraised in July 1972 is being presented to the Board tog-
ether with the present project.
1.04      This proposed project will be the second Bank Group lending opera-
tion for highways in Hlali, and is to include the improvement of two major
trunk roads as recommended under the abovementioned feasibility studies
(para 1.02), as well as a second purchase of highway mainl:enance equipment.
The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$20.5 million equiva-
lent, with a foreign exchange cost of about-US$14.7 million. Financing



2-
arrangements are as follows:  (i) 46% of the project costs will be covered
by an IDA Credit of US$9.5 million; of this, US$9.05 million will be for for-
eign costs, and the remaining US$450,000 will go toward local costs; (ii)
32% of the project costs will be provided by a USAID loan of US$6.6 million;
approximately US$5.65 million of this amount will be in foreign costs, and
the balance of US$950,000 in local costs; (iii) iMali will finance the remain-
ing foreign and local costs in the amount of about US$4.4 million equivalent,
including about US$3.3 million in taxes.
1.05      This report is based on the feasibility studies mentioned above,
and on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. J.H. Doyen
(Engineer/Economist) of the Bank's Permanent Ilission in Western Africa, and
A. Weckerle (Economist) of Headquarters, which visited Mali in June 1972.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
2.01      Mali has an extensive transport system which serves most areas of
the country adequately. The physical infrastructure presently consists of a
640 km, railway (Regie du Chemin de Fer du Htali - CPI) which links Bamako with
the port of Dakar in Senegal by way of the rail system in that country; about
13,000 km of roads, of which some 3,100 km provide all-weather service; about
1,650 km of inland waterways which are navigable for about seven months each
year; and an international airport at Bamako, as well as about a dozen air-
fields which cater to domestic commercial needs.
2.02      Improvements in transport infrastructure are expected to be
achieved through several investments now either underway or planned. The
railway is being modernized with IDA assistance (Credit 95-,LI) to increase
rail capacity and improve CFM's cost performance; and a second IDA Credit
for additional investments in track renewal and rolling stock is being pre-
sented to the Board together with this highway project. The Association is
also assisting the Government (Credit 197-MLI) to improve agricultural
feeder roads. The European Development Fund (FED) is financing construction
of a new international airport at Senou, just south of Bamako, which will
replace the existing facility now limited in capacity. Also, a Bank Group
mission which recently reviewed river transport has identified additional
equipment needed to improve river navigation services. Judged by the current
economic plan and by the transport investmnents under preparation, the
planning of infrastructure is well geared to the needs of the country.
2.03      Most domestic trade -- as measured in passenger-km or in ton-km --
is carried either by road or by rail. Road transport accounts for close to
75%' of all passenger traffic, the railway carries about 15%, and water and
air transport the remainder. Domestic freight traffic is handled 45% by road,
40% by rail, and 15% by water transport. For external transport, the railway
is the more important mode; of the total foreign trade traffic, estimated



- 3 -
at about 400,000 tons per year, about 60% is shipped via tlhe railway to and
from Dakar. A further 20-25% is transported by road to and from the Ivory
Coast, about half of this being overseas trade routed through the port of
Abidjan. Remaining import/export traffic consists of trade with Upper Volta
and Ghana.
B. Transport Policies and Coordination
Background
2.04      The objectives of Mali's transport policies are to create, preserve,
and expand services capable of handling efficiently the country's internal and
foreign trade. These objectives apply to any country, buit in the case of Mali,
realizing them implies overcoming specific geograplhical handicaps, namely,
its landlocked position and long transport distances.
2.05.     Mali is surrrounded by seven countries, but only two of them --
Senegal and the Ivory Coast -  provide connections to the Atlantic with suf-
ficient capacity to handle Mali's overseas import and export trade, and then
only if both are used. Of the two routes, the CFM has the greater capacity,
and it is also preferable in terms of transport costs.
2.06      Mali covers a total land area of 1.2 million Im2, and extends over
1.600 km from its southwestern to the northeastern border. The population
is about 5.3 million. Even considering only the southern half of the coun-
try where most of this population is concentrated, density is low. Conse-
quently, there are few economies of scale, and transport costs per capita
are high. An example of the distances and costs involved for internal
transport is the route extending over 650 km between Bamako and Mopti, a
major center for fish and rice production. For overseas traffic, the dis-
tance between Bamako and either Dakar or Abidjan is about 1,200 km.
Control and Regulatory Measures
2.07      The Government of Mali exercises considerable control over the
transport system, and comprehensive measures have been taken to ensure that
transport sector objectives and performance are in line with national prior-
ities. These measures consist not only of control of infrastructure invest-
ments, but also of Government ownership in transport enterprises and com-
plementary regulations in the sector.
2.08      Government control of the transport industry through public owner-
ship applies to:  the Malian railroad (CFt); the Compagnie Malienne de Trans-
port Routier (CMTR) with an estimated share of 20% in terrns of ton-km of
Mali's road freight transport; the Compagnie Malienne de Navigation, with
an estimated 60-80% of the country's traffic on waterways; and Air Mali,
the only internal air carrier.



-4-
2.09      The key elements of Malian transport regulation are:  .(i) the cen-
tralization in Government-administered freight offices of transport demand
for all imports and exports and all domestic road haulage, and its distribu-
tion to available capacities, and (ii) control of rates for freight trans-
port by rail, road, and water. These regulations are effectively enforced
on the major routes. Inter-urban passenger traffic is subject to some re-
strictions by rate regulation both on the railroad and on a Government-owned
bus company which has a monopoly on several trunk roads radiating out of
the capital.
Sector Performance
2.10      Control of the transport industry through ownership of transport
assets and complementary regulatory policies has led to only partially satis-
factory results. Although Mali has been able to satisfy its most pressing
needs for internal and external communication, the industry as a whole has
been severely strained. For many years, the various Government-owned and
private enterprises have been besieged by problems of inadequate management,
organization, and liquidity, and these have had detrimental effects on the
capability of the industry to expand, or even to sustain its capacity.
Conisequently, there was and remains the risk that the transport industry
is not fulfilling the objective of efficiently handling Mali's trade re-
quirements.
2.11      Some of the problems caused by operational inefficiencies have
been or are being solved through a UNDP-financed technical assistance program,
and through corrective measures and technical assistance for CFM's management
undertaken as part of the First and of the proposed Second Railway Project.
However, an additional measure is required to improve the viability of the
transport industry; this means introducing rates which allow carriers to
recover the costs of their services. The pricing policies of CFM have been
studied by the French consultants SOFRERAIL with financing provided under the
First Railway Project, and agreement was reached during negotiations for the
proposed Second Railway Project on implementation of a new railway tariff
svstem, including increases in rates.
2.12      The official rates for both public and private road transport have
remained unchanged since 1967, and the rates charged are substantially lower
than those for road' haulage in neighboring countries with similar economic
and physical conditions. Indications are that these low rates make it ex-
tremely difficult for even reasonably efficient road carriers to generate
funds for renewal or expansion of their vehicle fleets; in particular, the
state-owmed trucking firm CMTR, although recently reorganized, is still un-
able to service its debt. As a consequence, road transport capacity is in-
sufficient, and investments designed to improve operating efficiency are
difficult to finance. Contrary to its intended objective, existing trans-
port pricing hampers ratiier than supports Mali's internal and external trade,
as evidenced by the recurrent problems in evacuating the annual crop. A
revision of road freight rates appears to be the most important measure neces-
sary at this time to improve the performance of the road transport industry
(para. 3.04), and thereby to support Malian trade.



-5-
2.13      During negotiations, agreement was reached between the Government
and the Association that this project would provide financing for a study of
the trucking industry. The study would aim at defining a pricing policy
which would allow carriers to cover the cost of their services, and would
also identify measures to improve the efficiency of road freight transport.
Upon completion of the study, and in consutltation with the AssociatioJn, thŽ
-svernment will im1plement, within a time-table satisfactory to the Associatia ,
the studv's recommendations as nppropriate (para. 4,11).
Institutional Responsibilities
2.14      Investments in infrastructure are planned by the Ministry of Indus-
trial Development and Public Works and the llinistry of Transport; the latter
also takes major decisions on company policies of the state-run enterprises,
in addition to performing general supervisory functions. Transport regula-
tion rests mnainly with the Direction Nationale des Transports (DUT) which
cones under the Ministry of Transport.  DNT itself is sub-divided into thI
Office National des Transports Routiers which assumes functions related to
road transport, and into separate divisions responsible for transport plan-
ning and for intermodal coordination including sector regulations. Taken
as a whole, the Government's organizational structure for the control and
regulation of transport is satisfactory. llowever, institutional improve-
ments are desirable for coordinating intermodal transport policies; the
Government, aware of such deficiencies, is undertaking to strengthen the
operational capacity of UNT to correct them.
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      Mali's highway network (Table 1) consists of about 13,000 km of
roads and tracks. It includes a well-developed system of primary roads
linking the main population centers of the central region (Bamako, Segou,
Sikasso, and Mopti) with each other and with the transport networks of
neighboring Upper Volta and Ivory Coast. This primary road network includes
about 1,630 km of paved roads and 1,470 km of all-weather gravel roads.
Complementary to this system is a scattered network of secondary roads
and earth tracks which provide access to rural areas.
3.02      The condition of most of the primary roads is adequate for present
traffic levels, although several paved roads built more than 15 years ago
now require strengthening and rehabilitation. The secondary network is in
less satisfactory condition, and many rural areas are without reliable com-
munication. The highest priorities are adequate highway maintenance, re-
habilitation of existing primary roads, and improvement of secondary roads.
Both the on-going highway maintenance project (para. 1.02) and the present
project are directed toward meeting these objectives.



-6-
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Transport
3.03      On the basis of statistics on fuel consumption (Table 2), vehicle
registration (Table 3), and sein-annual traffic counts by the National Direc-
torate of Public Works (DPW), road traffic has been growing at an average
annual rate of 5-6% since 1968. Traffic volumes are light, except on the
primary roads serving Bamako. More than 75% of the traffic is concentrated
on paved roads which carry an average of about 250 vehicles per day (vpd);
traffic on all-weather gravel roads averages about 30 vpd, accounting for
less than 15% of total volume. Secondary roads and tracks -- which repre-
senit more than 75% of the network -- carry about 10%o of overall traffic, at
an average of less than 20 vpd. Trucks account for a high 45% of total
traffic, an indication of the importance of freight transport.
3.04      In 1971, the vehicle fleet numbered about 16,000, of which more
than 50% were passenger cars, 25%o light pickup trucks and vans, and the
remainder heavy trucks and buses (Table 3). The fleet has expanded steadily
since 1965 at an average annual rate of about 7%. The capacity of the
trucking fleet appears inadequate, as evidenced by the substantial delays
which occur in the evacuation of agricultural products. Even if there is
a sufficient number of vehicles, output is low, with an average annual
kilometrage of only 25,000 km per truck.  The fleet suffers from both over-
loading and lack of maintenance. The main reason for the poor condition
of the fleet would seem to be the low prices paid to the truckers. It is
expected that the proposed study of the trucking industry (para. 2.13) will
help correct this situation.
C   Administration
3.05      The highway network was reclassified in 1971 as part of the re-
organization measures under the maintenance project. About 6,000 km of roads
and tracks which had been the responsibility of regional authorities were
turned over to DPW who could better satisfy minimum maintenance requirements.
The newly-strengthened Directorate now has full responsibility for the admi-
nistration, planning, and maintenance of the 11,500 km of roads which make
up the primary and secondary road networks; the remainder of the system --
about 1,700 km of earth tracks - continues to be the responsibility of
regional authorities.
3.06      DPW itself has been extensively and effectively reorganized over
the past two years; responsibility for various aspects of highway administra-
tion is now shared among several departments, each of them under the direct
supervision of the Director-General of DPW (see Chart). The departments of
Roads and Bridges, New Works, and Equipment are the major ones concerned
specifically with roads. ¶he Roads and Bridges Department is responsible
for the planning and supervision of road maintenance, as well as for all
construction works carried out by its 13 subdivisions. The New Works De-
partment has been recently established to carry out the feeder road better-
mient program under the First Highway Project; the department supervises the



-7-
work of two mechanized brigades for roads serving cotton- and groundnut-
producing areas. The Equipment Department has been strengthened, and its
responsibilities extended to cover the operation of all workshops, as well
as the management, maintenance, and repair of DPW's equipmiant fleet.
3.07      DPlW staff includes about 20 trained Mlalian er.gineers employed
in supervisory positions in the central departments and the field divisions.
There is a supporting staff of about 60 technicians, orly about half of whom
have had some formal training. The three DPW departments most directly con-
cerned with roads employ about 1,650 people, of whon about 250 have recently
been recruited to man the feeder road brigades. The labor force is largely
illiterate and has had only a very low level of training; the personnel does
however, have some practical knowledge gained through experience, and this
is proving to be a sound basis for the training being provided under the
ongoing highway maintenance project.
D. Maintenance
3.08      llighway maintenance is carried out by the field subdivisions of
DPW's Roads and Bridges Department. 'Maintenance guide'lines and techniques
are adequately defined, and the methods used appear to strike a correct
balance between the use of capital and labor.  Mechanical equipment is used
for systematic and continuing operations such as reshaping and reloading
gravel surfaces and resealing pavements; filling of potholes, patching, and
maintenance of bridges and culverts are done manually.
3.09      Between 1965 and 1970, lack of funds and tlhe deficient organization
of DPW contributed to deterioration of the network. A comprehensive program
to rebuild DPW's maintenance capacity is being undertaken through the ongoing
IDA-financed highway maintenance project. This prograr. includes: (i) reor-
ganization of the Equipment Department; (ii) renovation of equipment; and
(iii) technical assistance and training.  Thus strengthened, DPW has grad-
ually assumed responsibility for all economically important roads, and has
undertaken as part of the maintenance project a betterment program on about
1,450 km of selected feeder roads.
3.10      Under the highway maintenance project, and since early 1971, con-
sultants BCEOM (France) have provided maintenance advisers, and the Interna-
tional Labour Office (ILO) has supplied a team of experts to strengthen the
Equipment Department. While somewhat slow to start, progress is satisfactory
and the project is now proceeding well. Technical assistance and training
provided will be continued under the presently proposed project (para. 4.06).
3.11      DPW's equipment fleet has a renewal value of roughly US$5.7 million.
About 60% of the fleet are new pieces financed under the ongoing IDA project;
the remainder consists of items which are now six or more years old, but which
have been kept in service with spare parts procured also under the IDA Credit.
As anticipated under the previous project, this portion of the fleet will have
to be replaced over the next two years, and the proposed project makes pro-
vision for this renewal (para. 4.03).



E. Engineering and Construction
3.12      Engineering of major highway projects is normally done by consul-
tants.  A state-owned consulting firm, the Societe a'Etude du Mali, has been
in operation since 1970, and has done some highway feasibility studies and
engineerinig works in joint venture with experienced foreign consultants.
DPW's own surveying institute and its well-equipped soil laboratory are
usually retained as sub-contractors to participate in highway engineering
studies. The Societe Nationale de Recherche Miniere (SONAREM), a state-
owned geological research company, carries out borings for foundation
studies.
3.13      Over the past few years, major highway construction projects have
becn executed primarily by foreign contractors, and to a lesser extent by
DPW's own forces.  The state-owned construction firm SONETRA ceased working
on highways two years ago, and now concentrates instead on building construc-
tion. There are two medium-capacity French contracting firms which have over
tlie last five years set up permanent branches in 'Iali.  Recent bids for civi.
works contracts appear to have aroused only limited international interest,
apparently because of the relatively small amount of work offered, and the
liigh cost for a foreign firm to mobilize.
3.14      DPW's own capacity to carry out minor road works has been increased
under the highway maintenance project by the establishment of two mechanized
brigades which are implementing the feeder road betterment program under thn
supervision of consultants. This experimental arrangement has made a good
start, and seems well suited to the scattered, low-cost works. The brigades
also provide valuable opportunities for on-the-job training of young techni-
cians recently recruited by DPW ta fill intermediate staff positions.
Financin-
3.13      Current annual expenditures for administration and maintenance are
covered mainlv by a Road Fund, and to a lesser extent by contributions from
th«- Government's -eneral budget. The Road Fund is also the most important
internal source of financing for capital expenditures such as highway con-
struction and equipment purchases. In 1970 and 1971, internal financing
for highways averaged about MF 1.35 billion (US$2.7 million) annually,
about 60/I of which was for current expenditures (Table 4).
3.16      Over the period 1966-68, lack of funds for maintenance led to a
curtailment of operations and to the virtual breakdown of the equipment fleet.
Highway maintenance expenditures over the period 1966/67 to 1969 decreased
in real value from about US$1.5 million to about US$1 million equivalent.
As required under the Credit Agreement for the highway maintenance project,
tle Government undertook to supply the Road Fund with sufficient resources
to cover the local costs of the program for highway maintenance and feeder
road betterment, as well as the current requirements for maintenance.  The
Governnent also agreed to gradually increase the provision for equipment re-
newal so that, starting in 1975, annual current requirements would be covered;



-9-
accordingly, since 1971, allocations have been increased as specified in tlhe
agreed financing plan covering the period 1971-74. The ongoinig project pro-
vides for equipment renewals in 1973 and 1974. During negotiations for the
present project, agreement was reached on a new financing plan (1976-78) for
maintenance of the road network, including provisions for equipment renewal
(Table 5).
3.17      Road users contribute to Government revenues through various taxes,
import duties, and fees. In 1971, revenues totalled about MF 4 billion (US$8
million), and exceeded slightlv the Government's current and capital expend-
itures for highways (Table 6).  About 65%' of taxes and duties on gasoline
and diesel oil are earmarked for the Road Fund, and are channeled into the
special account held for that purpose with the Nlali Development Bank. Road
Fund revenues have averaged about US$2.4 million annually over the past two
years; they are the only DPW revenues not affected by fluctuations in budget
allocations, and are therefore essential for the continuity of DPW operations.
3.18      Over the last six years, Mali has received an average of about
US$3-5 million per annum in external financial assistance for highways. This
amount represented about 70-80% of capital expenditures in the mode, and was
directed mainly to upgrading of the primary road network. FED has been the
main source of this external financing,. with some contr:Lbutions also from
USAID, Eastern European countries, France, and the Arab Republic of Egypt.
G. Planning and Sector Priorities
3.19      Highway investments are planned by DPW; in accordance with the broad
objectives of the Government's Development Plan. The present three-year plan
(1971-73) correctly emphasizes maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing
network, improvement cf feeder roads, and upgrading of primary roads.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(a) improvement of two major trunk roads totalling
about 380 km, under the supervision of consultants;
(b)  continuation of the ongoing highway maintenance and feeder
road betterment program with supplementary technical
assistance and training;
(c) purchase of higlhway maintenance equipment;
(d) detailed engineering by consultants for upgrading of
the Bamako-Kolokani road (120 km); and
(e) a study of the trucking industry.



- 10 -
Improvement of Paved Roads
4.02      The two ml1ajor trunk roads to be improved under the project radiate
out of Bamako to the regional centers of Segou and Bougouni, with the first
7 Ikn from Bamako to Faladie comiaon to both roads. The Faladie-Segou section
(223 km) connects the capital with the cotton-producing areas around Segou,
and comprises part of the only all-weather link with Mopti, the gateway ta
thie Niger River basin. The Faladie-Bougouni section (148 km) serves the
cultivated region to the south, and forms part of the important international
link with the Ivory Coast; this section will also serve the new international
airport under construction at Senou, 10 km south of Bamako.
4.'3      Thu two project roads were built in the early fifties, and are
-ali's oldest paved links.  Initially, a light one-lane pavement was laid on
th,e existing cravel surface; since then, sections have been widened at random,
and at uresent their weidths range between 4-6 m.  The alignnents follew, the
undulating terrain, with imany curves and dangerous hogbacks.  Thle roads cross
on±Lv a few permanent rivers.  Drainage is a problera on several -ections which
cross lowlands that are f loodea cluring the short but intense rai-ny season.
4.04      As traffic increased and lheavier trucks were put into use, the
pavement of both roads started to break up, necessitating intensive main-
tenance and partial reconstruction. The roads are now clearly unsuitable
for present traffic volumes wlhich average about 2,000 vpd on the Bamako-
Faladie road and about 400 and 250 vpd respectivelv on Faladie-Segou and
Faladie-Bougouni; the latter road carries many heavi trailer trucks on
long-haul trips to the Ivory Coast. Narrow pavements and Jcfects, in the
alignments cause unsafe driving conditions. On several sesctioiis, the base
and sub-base are structuralyv inadequate, and carrent ,Tiairitenanc& works  f
patching and sealing are of limited effectiveness.
The consultants h.z recammended in their feasibility study (piara.
l .2) that the  existing roads should be improved and the pavements strcngth
aenec.  This would incluide:  (a2' all necessary rehabilita-ioln ;ers (regravel
iing shoul:ders, reshaping ditc hes, .paîr aud reconstruction cf ftailing
structures); (b) widening th,' pave:,ierit to a standard 6 .l wit.àL~  -- the lheavi )i-
trafficked BamaWo-Faladiei-Senou. seCtion will h  widened to 7 m; (c! such
raîvelniient strcngthening works as deternoned £o be irîmediately justiiied; anc
c) selecter. improvemetits such as the widening of several one-lane bridges,
dud short realignments,  rDes-i3,-  standards for the project roa"s are givern
t  "Table 7r  The consuitantse studv had aLso identiJ^ied further strengthening
,eorks, and these are scheduled to start bnr 1980.
.Continuation cf tle Prograa  Yr way .aînteinancL and Fnder Road Bqtterme-nt
: il     TlThe highway maintenance and feeder road betterment program under the
First H1ghway Project is now proceeding well, although progruss in the early
,tages was somewhat slower than envisaged when the project was appraised; the
t eclli cal assistance being provided to DPll will therefore have to be extend-
ed in order to assutre that thie objectives of the program are realized. The
quired score of this suplplerientary technical assistance was reviewed with



- 1it -
DPW and with the heads of the ILO and BCEOIA teams (para. 3.10), and it is
now estimated that the technical assistance should be ratained for about
an additional year and a half, that is, until early 1975. DPW is confident
that, by that time, Malian counterpart staff will be able to carry on without
the consultants' assistance. Funds will therefore be provicled under tlhe pro-
posed credit for the appropriate extension of consultants' services: the
10-man ILO team will be extended by about 100 man-months, and the 7-man BCEOM
team by about 70 r,man-months (Table 8). These estimates of man-month require-
mtents are rather low, and reflect the Governnent's wish to keep technical
assistance at a minimum, tliereby putting soï,    pressure on the consultants
to train Malian counterpart staff and to turn responsibilities over to them.
4.07      Under the ongoing project, IL0 has arranged to send several promising
technicians to its vocational Lraining center at Turin, Italy, to attend
three-month sessions in workshop management.  Titis program has produced good
results, and will be expanded under the present project.  Accordingly, ILO wlll
organize training in Turin for two groups of ten DPW technicians each.
Purchase of Road Maintenance Equipment
4.08      The equipment covered under the project was anticipated under the
previous highway project (Credit 197-MLI) for external 1,inancii,g (para. 3.11).
The list represents DPW's acquisition needs for 1973 anc 1974, and is based
on a report of the Government and on its discussions with and the findings
of the appraisal mission. Table 9 gives details on the different types of
equipîtent and the number of pieces required.
Detailcd Engineering
4.J9      In 1971, DPW comrissioned a joint venture of consultants -- SEMA
C'ali) anf SCET International (France) -- to carry out a feasibility study
for imiprovement of several sections of the 300 km trunk road extending north
fron Bar,nako to the Mlauritanian border.  The road is paved to Kati (15 km),
and gravelled over the next 160 km; the last section to the border is an
earth track.  The consultants recommended upgrading the section of the road
between Kati and Kolokani (105 km) around 1975. A preliminary evaluation
of the imaprovement works indicates an economic return of about 14'%.
4.10      The Kati-Kolokani section presently carries about 70 vpd, half
of which are trucks and buses.  The road is in poor condition, particularly
the first 40-50 km out of Kati.  The gravel surface has deteriorated, both
horizontal and vertical alignments are poor, and drainage is inadequate.
Upgrading the road to engineered gravel standard is clearly justified, and
even paving it may be feasible. Under the project, detailed engineering and
complementary economic studies of the proposed upgrading will be carried out
in order to determine the optimum solution on the basis of recent traffic
developments. The consultants will also assess the need to strengthen the
Bamako-Kati section where the pavement is beginning to deteriorate.



- 12 -
Study of Trucking Industry
4.11      The study is intended to assist the Governiient in its efforts to
improve the viability and efficiency of tlhe trucking inuustry (para. 2.13).
The main focus of the- study is on the design of a pricing policy for thb
industry which will allow carriers to cover the costs of the1ir services.
Consultants' Terms of Reference were discussed and agreed witih the Govern-
ment during negotiations.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.12      The estimated costs of the project are sliown in Table 10 and
summarized below:
Proposed
---(IF million)---    ---(US$ '000)---          IDA
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total        Credit
-______    -        -                    (US$  '000)
A. Improvement
of paved roads   1,892  3,781  5,673   4,113  8,219  12,332    5,545
B. Continuation of
technical
assistance and
training             38    366    404        33    795      878       795
C. Purchase of road
r,uaintenance
equipment            54  1,033  1,087       117  2,247   2,363        330
D. Detailed
Engineering          12    101    113        25    220      245       220
E, Studv of Trucking
Industry             -       23     23       -       50      50        50
F. Contingencies:
- quantities         376    733  1,109       817  1,593   2,410    1,058
prices             292    703    995      636  1,540   2W_96        997
Total            2 664  6i740  9P404   5,791 14,663  2el 454    9,495
(rounded)                                5,800 14,700  20,500    9_500
4,13      Improvement works have been estimated on the basis of international
competitive bidding. The foreign exchange component for these items is es-
timated at about 65% of their total cost; the local component includes about
2'0 in taxes and duties. Cest estimates for consultants' services for con-
struction supervision and for technical assistance are based on man-month



- 13 -
requirenments.  Cost estimates for road tmaintenance equipment are derivecd
from bids under the highway maintenance project, appropriately adjusted to
reflect current price escalation. The cost of the detailed engineering has
been based on proposals submitted by the consultants SCET/SEMA.
4.14      A physical contingency of 20% has been provided for the construction
items. This figure is higher than usual because cost estimates for Bamako-
Bougouni are based only on prelitninary engineering, and because a review of
detailed engineering for Faladie-Segou 'submitted by Kez in mid-March 1973)
indicates some remaining uncertainties on the final solution to be implemented
on some sections (para. 4.15). To cover any unforeseen delay in the construc-
tion period and in the duration of the engineering studies, a 10%' contingency
allowance has been provided for consulting services related to these items.
The contingency allowances for price variation are base(i on a possible 6%
annual price increase for road construiction works, materials, and equipment
in Mali and in the supplying countries. The annual price increase for consult-
ïng services has been estimaated at 5%.
C.   Execution and Procurement
4.15      The DPW in the Ministry of Industrial Developrnent and Public Works
will be responsible for execution of the project. The :improvement works
will be divided into two parts:  USAID will assist in financing of the Bamako-
Faladie-bougouni road (155 kn) which will be tendered according to regulations
of that Agency. The Faladie-Segou road (223 km) to be i-inanced by the,Asso-
ciation, will be constructed under a single, unit-price contract after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. This
arrangement has been confirmed at negotiations. The pcssibility of dividing
up the works into several contracts for bidding purposes was discussed with
the Governmeent; it was however decided against doing so, since there are no
small contracting firms in the area which are capable of executing the works
(para. 3.13), and an increase in competition would therefore not be likely.
Moreover, two or more smaller contracts would increase both the cost of
supervision and the possibility of probletas in project execution.
4.16      The improvement works consist of minor earthworks, partial recon-
struction and widening of the base course, and bituminous paving.  The re-
constructed base course will consist of lateritic gravel, either natural or
stabilized with cement, depending on the construction materials available
and on bid results. Reconstruction of the surface course will be by multiple
surface treatment according to the condition of the existing pavement. The
nature of these works requires the use of equipment in executing them.
Certain operations such as reconstruction of bridges and culverts, and patching
and reslhaping of existing pavement require extensive use of labor, and the
project will employ about 600 - 700 people over the two-year construction
period. DPW is confident that, in view of the low cost and relative abundance
of labor in the Bamako area, and the high cost of bringing in and operating
equipment, bidders will adopt a mix of labor and capital consistent with the
country's development objectives; these include creation of employment at a
meaningful level of productivity, and avoidance of a shift of population from
rural to urban areas. This assessment seems reasonable.



- 14 -
4.17      Prequalification of contractors by DPW will be completed during
April 1973, and bids will be called immediately thereafter. Works are ex-
pected to start by end-1973, and will take about 24-30 months to complete.
4.18      Supervision of construction will be by consultants provided under
the project. The Government proposes that the same consultants be employed
for both the IDA- and USAID-financed sections in order to avoid duplication
of staff and equipment and to ensure better coordination. During negotia-
tions, agreement was reached on a list of consultants to be invited to suh-
mit proposals.
4.19      To take advantage of training opportunities offered by the execution
and supervision of works under the project, the suoervising consuiltants will
be requested to include two DPW engineers in their seven-man team. These
engineers will be selected by the consultants from a list of candidates to
be prepared by DPW.
4.20      The road maintenance equipment financed by the Association will we
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in .tccordance wit0-
Bank/IDA guidelines; tthe equipment financed by USAID wlll be- prorured accord-
ing to procedures agreed between that Agency and the Governnient.  Bidding
documents will be prepared by DPW with the assistance of exDerts attached to
the Equip-ient Department. The Association will review the draft documents.
Equipnient Fuppliers will be required to organize adequate servicing facil-
ities, and to maintain an inventory of spare parts.
4.21      The Government has selected the Joint vernture SEMA/SCET -- the
consultants who carried out the feasibility studies - to do the detailed
engineering and complementary economic studies for upgrading of the Barmako-
Kolokani road. This is acceptable to the Association, and the arrangement
has been confirmed during negotiations on the basis of the proposal submitt.e
by the consultants.  The complementary technical assistance fa  thfe higbway
maintenance program will be provided by ILO and BCEOM who have beer. :ss.s-ciu
DPW since the beginning of 1971.
r 4Financing and Disbursements
4.22      The financing plan for tL'e project has been agreed as follows:
(a)  IDA will finance:  (i) 70% of the total cost of imrroverent
works on the Faladie-Segou road (including abour 5% of the
local crst component); this represents about 87. of the
cost of this ister net of taxes; (ii) the actual foreign ex-
change cost of consuLting services for construction super--
vision, techinical assistance, detailed engineering, and the
studiv of the trucki.ag industrv; and (iii) about 37% of the
foreign cost of the highway maintenance equipm,ent;
(b)  USAI.D vill finance:  (i) the total cost, net of taxes, of
improvement works on the Bamako-Bougouni road; and (ii) about
63% of the foreign cost for purchases of highwav maintenance
equipment; and



-15 -
(c)  Mali will finance:  (i) the tax component of th- cost of the
bamako-Bougouni road, representing 20% of the total cost;
(ii) 30% of the total cost of rehabilitating the Faladie-
Segou road, corresponding to 95% (including taxes) of the
local cost; and (iii) the local costs of corisulting services
for construction supervision, technical assistance and de-
tailed engineering, and of purchase of highway maintenance
equipment.
4.23            The following table summarizes the approximate breakdown of
the financing of project costs as outlined abovte. The tentative financing
plan is shown in detail in Table 11.
- (US$ million) ---
Local       Foreign       Total
Tax    Other
USAID /1              -      0.95       5.65         6.6
IDA                   -     0.45        9.05         9.5
rIali                3.3    1.10         -           4.4
3.3    2.50       14.`70      20.5
/1   The actual awount of the USAID loan is IJM$9 milli,on
4.24      The estimated schedule of disbursement of funds under the proposed
Credit is shown in Table 12.
5. ECONOMIIC EVALUATION
A.   Gentral
5.01      Tiue proposed project is designed to improv*  the efficiency of Mali's
transport system, and reflects the Governmïent's policy to attach first prior-
ity to preserviag and upgrading existing facilities when planning transport
investnents. Through transport inmprovement, the project is expected to
stimulate and support economic activities in its zones of influence. Spe-
cifically, it will benefit agriculture: a significant part of road trans-
port is based on this sector, and tht program for highway maintenance and
feeder road betterment which forms part of the project, is integrated into
ongoing agricultural schemes. The proposed project is economically sound;
the overall economic return on the investments is about 30%.



- 16 -
B.   Improvement of Paved Roads
5.02      Tlie highways proposed for improvernent are two of the most important
links in Mali's primary road network. The Bamako-Bougouni road, the main
route south of the capital, serves local traffic and is also part of one
of the principal international links.  The route from Bamako to Segou forms
part of the country's imain transport axis wiiiclh extends froLm the Senegalese
border to the Niger River basin. The proposed improvemient works will reduce
future transport costs for a significant proportion of Mali's trade.
3.03      Traffic levels on the roads are varied.  The bamako-Faladie section
(7 km) is within tlhe greater urban area and carries an average of about 2,000
vpd; traffic on the Faladie-Bougouni section averages about 250 vpd, and ou
Faladie-Segou about 400 vpd.  The traffic is conposed largely of passenger
cars and light commercial vehicles, except on the Faladie-Bougouni section
where there is a greater proportion of heavy trucks transporting export alid
inport freight. International traffic on this section accounts for approx-
imately 30% of total volume.  On the basis of origin-destination data col-
lected by the consultants, traffic on the project roads is expected to grow
at an average of about 65% per annum, with local and regional traffic increas-
ing at about 6-Y%, and international traffic at about 3-4%.
5.04      The improvement program proposed under the present project was
found to be the optimum economic soluition when compared wlth the other pos-
sible alternatives of:  (i) increasing road maintenance sufficiently to avoid
further serious deterioration, and thus permitting the ronds to continue to
serve as main transport routes; (ii) improving all sections of tle roads
iimmediately; or (iii) continuing the curreint level of miaint*nance, which
would mean further deterioration and complete reconstruction oc  he roa"s
when they fail in five to ten years.
5.05      The economic returns on the propos-c investm-ents w,r& computedby
comparing them with alternative (i) above.  ln addition, thie pavernuent widenîgiv
was analyzed separately on the basis of marginal benefits aud costs.  ilowever,
tLlt marginal cost -- about US$200,000 -- of relocating a 6 i, section of the
existing road betweeni Faladit and Senou was excluded from the economic
analysis, as tClu  proposcrd relocatiom  is justified by safety requirements of
i3amrako's new international airport near Senou ratimer than by savings in
transport costs. On the basis of savings in vehicle operating costs of
up to 16%, and on the specific evaluation procedures outlîned above, the
propc>sed improvemelt program is expected to yield economie returns on the
stctions Bamako-Senou, Senou-Bougounii and Faladie-Segou of 24%, 37%, and
29%o respectively.  Widening of the pavements yields a return of about 29%.
3.(6      The above estimates of the economic returns rely on a number of
inputs which have generally been quantified with a satisfactory degree of
certainty.  One less certain factor is the future level of international
traffic, particularly in view of the planned investment to increase tht
capacity of the railway, anui the possibli revision of transport pricing.  A
test of this variable indicates, hiowever, that the economic viability of the
proposed road investment is not threatened by the possible loss of such



- 17 -
traffic.  For instance, even if all overseas trade presently routed through
Abidjan were diverted to the railway, the economic return on Senou-Bougouni,
the section which would be most affected by sucli diversion, would remain
above 28X,; if this traffic were mnerely to remain constarLt, which is a more
realistic assumption, the economic return would be about: 33%. In view of
the results of these and other tests listed in Table 13, the improvement
program is considered to be of high priority and economically sound.
C.   Highway Maintenance and Feeder Road Betterment
Continuation of Technical Assistance and Training
5.07      The ongoing highway malntenal1ce and feeder road betterment program
is an essential element in the development of reliable and efficient highway
maintenance in Mali. The additional capital expenditures for supplementary
tecInical assistance and training required to bring the program to a success-
ful completion, and the total program itself, are justified.
D.   Highway Maintenance Equipment
5.08      The composition and number of the items of equipment to be financed
under tht project (Table 9) are based on analyses by the Governnent and the
appraisal mission.  The list reflects the size and condition of presently
available stock and its maintenance and replacement schedules, road types and
network length, existing and desirable road conditions, and present and future
traffic volumes. The equipment also matches the supplementary capacities in
manpower and workshops established under the ongoing highway maintenance
project, and the availability of local funds.
5.09      The economic analysis of the equipment was based on its costs of
purchase and operation over an assumed ecoilotaic life of six years, and on
savings in vehicle operating costs for traffic growing at 5%0 p.a. The
vehicle operating costs used in the evaluation are given in Table 14.  The
equipment acquisition is expected to benefit the entire road network in Mali
(Table 1) and to reduce road user costs by at least 5%. Using this conser-
vative figure, the economic return on the investment is at ieast 20%. Realis-
tically, however, the reduction in costs is likely to be greater than 5%,
since the project's equipment represents about one-third of total requirements,
and since experience shows that adequate maintenance operations have a con-
siderable impact on road conditions and consequently on road user costs.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATTON
6.01      During Credit negotiations between the Governmient and the Associa-
tion, agreements were reached on the following principal points:



- 18 -
(a)  consultants' Terms of Reference for a study of the
trucking industry, and implementation by the Covernment,
within a time-table satisfactory to the Association, of the
study's recommendations as approprtate (paras. 2.13 and 4,11).
(b) a new financing plan (1976-78) for maintenance of the
road network, including provisions for equipment renewal
(para. 3.16); and
(c)  final arrangements on financing of project costs (paras.
4.22 and 4.23).
6.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$9.5 million
to the Government of Mali on conventional IDA ternis.
April 3, 1973



Table l
MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network: 1972
Technical Characteristics        Network    Average
Surface            Width of       Length      Daily
Type           Carriageway        (k)       Traffic
:E.  Maintained by DPW
Primary roads
(àll-weather)           bituminous
paved                over 5 m         1,217
3.5- 5 m          417
gravel
(laterite)           over 6 m                      30
Subtotal                                                   -''
Secondary roads
selected earth       4 - 6 m         2,987
earth track          3 - 5 m          5 195
Sucotot~ai                                                  iâ          ,-l.
Total maintained by DPW                                         13
II.   Maintained by local
authorities
earth track          3 - 5 m          1,700      2-10
Total network' (roure 6)                                       -1 e
Source:  Tractionel, "Mali Transport Survey", July 1969.
DPW, June 1972.
Ni!sion estimates.
ectober 1972



Table 2
MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Fuel Consumption: 1964-1971
(m3)
Aver e Annual Growth
1964    1968      1969     1970     1971       1964-68   1968-71
Gasoline          3)4,105  37,965   39,965   41i,800   43,900         '%       5%
:iesel cil       17,470   18,735   19,230   21,600   22,100          2%        5.5%
Total             51,575   56,700   59,195   63,4Oo   66,000         2.5%      5%
Source: Tractionel, "Mali Transport Survey", July 1969.
DYW and petroleunm companies, June 1972.
September 1972



Table 3
MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY RROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fleet: 1965-1971
Distribution
Total Nuiber at End of Year            Percent of
Type of Vehicle             1965     1967     1969      1970     1971   total in 1971
Passenger cars             4,522    5,722    7,000    7,650    8,300         53%
Pick-ups, jeeps
small buses              2,668    3,395    3,400    3,700    4,000          25%
Trucks (2-10 t)            2,098    2,657    2,700    2,850    3,000          19%
Trailer trucks               229      291      310       335      360          2%
Buses                         88      110      130       155      175          1%
Total           9,605   12,175   13,54o   1.690  15,835           100%
Average annual increase over period 1965-1971: about 7%
Source:    Tractionel, 'tali Transport Survey$, July 1969.
IBRD estimates, December 1969.
Mission estimates, June 1972.
September 197^



Table 4
MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Hîghway Expenditures and Financing: 1968-1972
(MF million)
I.   Expenditures
1967/68     19691/      1970     1971     1972
A. Current expenditures
Administration                 157         136        lM2     152        155
Maintenance                    629         546        636     638        730
7EZ6B                 77&      790       97
B. Capital expenditures
(including equipment)        1,639         na       1,790   29_393/       na
Total                     2,425                  2,568   3,729
II. Financing
A. Internal sources
Road Fund                      749         700      1,158   1,218      1,752
Other                          217         na         142     152        155
966                 1,300   1,370      1,907
B. External sources               i,459          na      1,268                 na
Total                     2,425                  2,568   3,729
Note: na = not available
1/ Change in fiscal year.
t   Budgeted or estimated.
.I/ lncluding local expenditures under IDA project.
Source:  DPW and mission estimates, June 1972
3) Dt;embeI` 17r



TABLE 5
MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Budget
-MF million)
(Calendar Year)          1974        1975        1976       1977        1978
Recurrent Expenditures
(excluding salaries
of civil servants)   1,024      1,171       1,317      1,466       1,525
Equipment Reneval        -         260         300        450         600
TOTAL        l,024      1,431      1,617       1,916      2,125
Source:  DPW and Mission estimates, February 1973.
March 1973.



Table c
MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJEGT
Estimated Contribution of Road Users to Governnent Revenues: 1971
Estimated
Applicable Taxes         Receipts
Source of Revenue                        and Duties            (MF billion)
Petroleum Products
Gasoline       43,900 m3                         MF 34/liter               1.49
Diesel oil     22,100  3                         MF 20/liter               0.4h
Lubricants                                                                 0.05
Equipment and Parts
New vehicles       l,764 vehicles
N F 1.8 million                         1
- MF 3.2 billion                      30%                0.96
Parts, tires,etc. MF 2.4 billion                      25%                 0.60
'Véhiale-RRegistration, r                                                    0.°  0
TOTAL ESTIMATED RECEIPTS FROM ROAD USERS:                          3.9h
As compared wdth:
TOTAL HIGHWAY EXPENDITURES:                                        3.73
Total highway expenditures as % of receipts:                   (95%)
,ource:  DPW and mission estimates, June 1972.
September  1



Table 7
MALI
SECOND HIGHIAY PROJECT
Design Standards:  Bamako-Bougouni and Bamako-Segou Roads
Design speed:                                            100 km/h
Horizontal curves:  minimum radius                       500 m
Vertical curves:  minimum radius, crest                  6,ooo m
Maximuim grade:                                            6S
Pavement design load:                                    13 t
Bamako-Senou Airport Section   Other Sections
Roadway width                               11 m                    9 m
Pavement width                               7 m                    6 m
3houlder width                              2 m                     1.5 m
Source: Kez International Ltd., Feasibility Study, February 1972.
September



Table S
MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance Requirements
for Hi      Maintenance and Feeder Road Betterment Program
Man-month Requirements
Number      Provided        To be
Task            Field of Expertise         of          Under       Provided        Total
_ __E rts    Cr. 197-MLI  Under Project   Needed
Reorganization        Equipment management
of Equipment           (Chief of mission)        1             33             6            39
Department (ILO)      Professional training
(Deputy)                  1             33             6           39
Workshop and machine
tools                     1             30             9           39
Equipment inspection       1             33            15           LI 3
Adninistration and
cost accounting           1             2h            12            36
Procurement and inven-
tory                      1             30            6            36
Equipment maintenance
and wrkshop operations  4         (    30             .12          !4
(    25           15            hO
(   2-            1O
10          2             Ty2 10 
Planning and         Highway planning
l.ontrol of Highway    (Chief of mission)        1             32            20            $2
Maintenance and       Administratilon and
Feeder Road            accounting                 1            17             5            22
Betterment (BCEOM)   Highway engineering         1              3             2             2
Feeder road construc-
tion                      2      (      30            10           ho
C (   25            10           35
Equipment maintenance      2       (     30            10-           40
(  10            15           25
7   5&7   ~~~~~75 ~219
7                      -7T~
Gcar-e: DPW and -.-ission estimates, June 1972.
September



MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Eguipment Requirements (1974)
Old Equipment            Equipment Purchased             Total available                   Equipment to bc purchased uver the period 1973-74
Listed as                    under Cr-197-MLI                for maintenance                        (Cost b1F million, 1972 value)
in use or      Net                 Assigned   Assigned          in 1974       Total re- 2/
salvageable  available              to feeder    for           (without       quirements    Purchase under    Cost   3/
Equipment type                        in 1969       in 1974       TOTAL    roads   maintenance         project)      in 1974-75      the project    per unit           TOTAL C(ST
(1)           (2)          '3)       (4)    (5)=(3)-(4)    (6)=(2)+(5)          (7)         (8) - (7T-(6)
Bulldozer (145-165 HP)                          14            3 1          13        7          6                9              15               6              26.5            159
Front end loader (85 HP)                       14             3R -         13       4          9                 9              15               6              12               72
Motorgrader (120 HP)                            12            3            25        7         18               21              31              10              15.2            152
Tractor(farm type, 65 HP)                        -            -            13        2         il               il              16               5               2.5             12.5
Pneumatic roller (towed)                         -            -            13        2         il               il              16               5               1.8              9
Hand Compacter (vibrant)                         -            -             -        -          -                -               4               4               1.5              6
Steel rol:er                                     2                          6        -          6                6               6               -                -               -
Dump truck (6m )                               54             5            49       16         33               38              54              16               9              144
Dump truck (4m )                                17            -            43        6         37               37              38               1               6.5              6.5
Tank truck (10,000 liter)                        5            -            20        4         16               16              36              20              10              200
Emulsion plant                                   I            -             -        -          -                -               1               1              12               12
Asphalt distributor                             4             -             -        -          -                                2               2              13.5             27
Patching unit                                   5             -             -        -          -                -               4               4               9.5             38
Rotary broom                                     -            -             2        -          2                2               2               -                 -              -
Spreader box                                     -            -             2        -          2                2               2               -                -               -
Concrete mixer                                   5            -             5        2          3                3              13              10               1.5             15
Pump (90 m/h)                                    6            -            10       4           6                6              18              12               1               12
General purpose vehicle                         19            -            14        3         il               il              18               7               2.8             19.6
Pick-up                                         4             -            10        2          8                8              il               3               1.6              4.8
Crane truck                                      -            -             1        -          1                1                1              -                 -
Low loader                                       1            -             4        -          4                4               6               2               5.5             il
Tractor for low loader                           1            -             4        -          4                4                6              2                8              16
Workshop crane                                   -            -             -        -          -                -                1              1                4.5             4.5
Mobile workshop                                  -            -             2        2          -                -                -              -                 -              -
Mobile lubricating unit                          -            -             -        -          -                -                9              9                7.5            67.5
Subtotal                                       988.4
Initial  stock of  spare parts (10)                                                                                                                                              9
TOTAL (1972 values)                          1,087.2
Price escalation   (5%)                         54.4
TOTAL COST                                   1,141.6
(,Ipprox. US$2.5 million eouivalent)
1/  R:  ta be kept on reserve unit to support regravelling units
2/ Total needs are based on the initial 1969 estimates updated by the DPW (with the assistaace of Consulltants BCEOM) and subsequently revised by the IDA mission
to reflect (i) the fact that the annual reuirements for regravelling were somewhat overe-timated by the DPW and (ii) the need to build up gradually
the capacity to carry out resealing of paved roads.
3/   Including the CIF costs, USAI   (95%) and the local costs(5%) which comprise handling, delivery, service, etc. but no taxes.
Source:  DPW and mission estimates, Tune 1972.
January 1973.



MALI                                          Table 10
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
MF million                  US$ '000 equivalent             as percent
Local    Foreign    Total       Local      Foreign      Total      of Total
A.           Improvement of Paved Roads
(i)   Civil works contract for
improvement of Bamako-
Faladie-Bougouni road (166 km)              747       1,388    2,135       1,624      3,017        4,641        657°
(ii)   Civil works contract for
improvement of Faladie-Segou
road (222 km)                             1,108       2,057    3,165       2,408      4,472        6,880        65%
(iii)   Supervision by consultants                    37         336      373         81        730          811         90%
Subtotal A                     1,892       3,781    5,673       4,113      8,219       12,332
B.           Continuation of technical
assistance and training for
Highway Maintenance and Feeder
Road Betterîment Program
(i)   Technical assistance services
provided by ILO and BCEOM                    38         343       381         83        745          828        90Û,
(ii)   Complementary training progran                -           23       23          -         50           50       100".
Subtotal B                        38         366       404         83        795          878
C.           Highway Maintenance Epuipment                54       1,033    1,087         117      2,246        2,363        95%
D.           Detailed Engineering
Detailed engineering and
complementary economic studies of
Kati-Kolokani Road (105 km)                  12         101       113         25        220          245        902
E.           Study of Trucking Industry                    -          23        23         -          50           50       100%
F.           Contingency Provisions for Increases
(i)   In Quantities -
-Items A (i) and A (ii):  20%            371        689     1,060        806      1,498        2,304
-Items A (iii) and D: 10%                  5         44         49         il         95          106
376        733     1,109        817      1,593        2,410
(ii)   In Prices -
-Items A (i) and (il):  6% p.a.             278        522        800        605      1,136        1,741
-Items A (iii), B, c, D and E: 10% p.a.   14           186        200         31        404          435
292       708      1,00         635      1,540        2,176
Subtotal F                       668      1,441      2,109      1,453      3,133        4,586
Total Cosa  of ProJect                   2,664      6,"45      9,409      5,791    14,663        20,454        71°
(Rounded)                                                          5,800    14,700        20,500
Sourcc: Kez, Feasibility Study, February 1972.
DPWA and mission est-laates, February 1973
March 1973



MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tentative FinancinS of Project Costs
(US '000)
Source of Financing
GOVERNMENT                      USAID                              IDA                           TOTAL
Local       (Taxes)    Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      T         Local      Foreign       Total
A. Improvement of Paved Roads
- Bamako-Faladie-Bougouni Road                   928       (  928)       696     3,017        3,713        -           -           _        1,624      3,017        4,641
- Faladie-Segou Road                           2,065       (1,376)        -         -            -         343      4,472        4,815      2,408      4,472        6,880
- Construction Supervision                        81          _           _         _            _                    730          730         81        730          811
B. Continuation of Technical Assistance
and Training                                      83          -           -         -            -          -         795          795         83        795          878
C.  Highway Maintenance Equipment                     117          -          -       1,416        1,416        -          830          830       117      2,246        2,363
D.  Detailed Engineering                              25          -           -         -            -          -          220          220         25        220          245
E.  Studv of Trucking Industry                                                                                  -           50           50        -           50           50
F. Contingency Provisions for Increases
- in quantities                                  609       ( 482)        139       604          743          69       989        1,058        817      1,593        2,410
- in prices                                      480       (  437)       104       595          699         -52       945          997        636      1,540         2,176
Subtotal                       1,089                     243    1,199         1,442         121     1,934        2,055      1,453      3,133        4,586
TOTAL PROJECT                                      4,388        (3,223)      939    5,632         6,571         464      9,031        9,495      5,791    14,663        20,454
(Rounded)                                     4 400                                         6 600                                                                 20,500
Source:  Mission estimates, February 1973
o-
March 1973.



Table 12
MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                             Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                                 at end of Quarter
(USX '000)
1t73/74
March 31, 1974                                             500
June 30, 1974                                            1,,500
1974/75
September 30, 197h                                       2,000
December 31, 1974                                        3,500
March 31, 1975                                          4h,500
June 30, 1975                                            5,500
-1975/76
September 30, 1975                                       6,200
December 31, 1975                                        7,000
March 31, 1976                                           7 800
June 30, 1976                                            a,500
1976/77
S.-ptember 30, 1976                                      9,000
December 31, 1976                                        9,200
?$arch 31, 1977                                          9,500
Source:   Mission estimates.
March 1973.



MALI                              Table 13
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Returns on Improvement Works
Bamako-         Senou-   Faladie-    Ail
Faladie-       Bougrouni   Segou    Sections
Senou (10 km)  (145 km)  (223 km)  (378 km)
A.  Best data estimates
All works                                24%          37         29%       30%
Widening part                             -            -          -        29%
B.   Sensitivity analysis  Change (%)
(al works>
Base year traffic:
all traffic,        - 15            23%           30%       24%        26%
overseas traffic    -100          @ 21%         '>28%    >22%         24%
Traffic growth rate
all traffic         - 15            23%           34%       26%       28%
overseas traffic    -100            23%           33%       28%    >1 28%
Investment Costs        + 15             22%          29%       25%        26%
Savings in vehicle
operating costs     - 15            23%           30%       24%       26%
Savings in road main-
tenance costs       - 15          > 23%         >30%      >24%    > 26%
Source:  Kez International, Ltd., Feasibility Study, February 1972.
Mission Estimates.
March 1973.



Table 1L
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle  1perating Costs-/
(MF/km)
Type of Road          Cost Index               Type of Vehicle
Light (~t 5t ,Hz~eavY~ (> 5t)
Paved                 1.00                   35             80
Laterite              1.50                   52            120
Earth                 2.00                    70           160
1/ At 1972 prices, without taxes.
Source: Kez International Ltd., Feasibility Study, February 1972.
Mission estimates.
September 1972.



MALI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE NATIONAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC WORKS (DPW)
(DIRECTION NATIONALE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS)
MINIS!,T Il 'IF INOUSTRIAL LIEVFLOPMENT
|N D PU B I C W O RKS
HEADOUARTFRS
NATIONAL ODIRECTORAIE
PUBLIC WORKS
SURV EYING           ADMINISTRATION               FNGINEERINO                                                           OASND                              FV    VUAOEVE L;JF    1
INSTT            ANO INCE                    ANOATTECHNiCALLBRTY                               EOUIPMENT           ROADS ANO RDO                      NFWY VVOF1KS                S DEVE OPMF NI
TI  T  AND F NANCES         ~       STUDES
OFFIC  0F              0F                     PL ANN NG A N
METHOOS                IPMEN                    CONTROL
CENTRAL
CENTER                                           F EDRF I IFEEDR  Ru ID
-    ;I;| S     V'Sl            r ;IBR                R I
FIELDORGANIATION
|  OAE        O       MOF'T         IF5E GOOU       IL LI   S  AS                        B AM AKO             S  A F ES 
JIIII.~UI3D V! SIONS
UAO  MOPT        FSEOOUI  ~~~~~~~~SKASSO                             SMS                    AE
i           B~~~OUGOUN          OO   N                N ORO
DIRE  DOUENTZA                  j                K~~~~~~~~~OU TlALA
'i Each asaersk 'upretents Dr engîr,eA, or tec,irni  SeIng InondeS t 09DP  tOri  Inapr nîpemenirng thro migh-av ia-ntellalce alîd te(Je ruai betelrier: aroqlar
'no Se ink 6939 R?






12t             .                            8<                                            1 4     to Toodeni                           0  
,Th, boundarief. shown on  dtlis niap do not
'  -   -   i            '      itnpplv, endorsement or acceptawce bY t/w     '   A    L   G    E    R  -    A
-ECOND  HIïGHWAY  PROJECT                                                               Il    Itorld Baik and its afiliates,
flIGI-IWAY- NET WORK    T                      hRASPORTATON SYSTEM
Xi -.   -SF 30<~ Hf GffW/W  PRQ4ECT.      :.,   s.100                                                         290        300        400            TeucIit
- -   ,-   -  .  -   .- ,~1rI~ ~   -ï ~    .os                      .                                   KILOMETERS
' - ---           3 én           e -    - --                       - in  t                              ` t $,                                                                       -  -  r_
H1WAYM, AU1EAC, "         PRUXCT  tCr. 197 -'MLf-
-     Feedoe rGa~f4bettr*~  wdrk~
-- -I -     -- ',~t 'tôW F*4 : l0drk                         -''         ,'                                                                                                       *
mzmwzm;       tufrifous rotds over 5m wi-th                                                                                                                                             t
. tu-inrwes «"  of 5m Md lm 'i sdth
-~ - - - - ---  roved eatth tad ks.
-f-l-o r e arth tracks                                          .                                                                                                          i
-'5, `~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"mOCO,                                                      =         Ntrr  R;j oco fhorous j
. _ A«f ............ ; . 2 .... : . / NIAFOUNKE   "'to
>, -- -   w   ; - . 4  -   .  : MA.IJRITAN-It    j    , ,->,  7v.,<»                         K                %*q~~~~~ANSONGO            AnOJ
o                               f7
-4--4--4-4--4-4- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ----Doenz
N'       BANDIAGARA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~NSNG
/~~~   "~~\.f  -.   "*~~~~~~~*                     --         x~~~~~MoPD ne -en
-'  *sx         ~~~~Kmlk      '5onamnba 
-,                 SAN'   TomsS
w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~
8AMA$<  -,~~~~~IKSSMA
f  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oflioKoo dieoI
wrn   'b                           o$                                                                                               H    A    N     A
O                         t AbidjOn                A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ s                                                                           A I/ansj    Oea
M   12'   \                         *~~~~~~~~~.   1b A bid~~~~~~~oo   ~~ T o  Abi.. d. o                                                                                                  Ln__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



