CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 383 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 23, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 383 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 23. 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 1973, between the REPUBLIC OF MALI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower intends to contract from the United States of America,
through its Agency for International Development (USAID), a loan (hereinafter
called the USAID Loan) in an amount equivalent to $9,000,000 to assist in
financing Parts A and D of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (hereinafter called the USAID Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the United States of America; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so r. >dified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Directorate" means the Directorate of
Public Works of the Borrower's Ministry of Industrial Development and Public
Works.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million five hundred thousand
dollars ($9,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Parts B, C and E of the Project and to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972 and revised in October 1972 and in accordance with and subject
to the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)   The contract for the carrying out of Part B of the Project shall be
a single unit-price contract awarded to a bidder prequalified as set forth in part
2.2 of such Guidelines and in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 15, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December I in each year.


﻿5
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1983 and ending December 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the
Directorate with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in supervising the works
comprising Parts A and B of the Project and in carrying out Parts C, E and F
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and


﻿6
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the Directorate and of other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures such data as are required to assess
the technical, economic and financial aspects of the Borrower's road network for
the proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be reasonably
required to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using the
Borrower's highways system are consistent with the structural and geometric design
standards of the roads used.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause its road network and its road
maintenance equipment to be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary
repairs thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound engineering
and economic standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that its Road Fund, held in the
Banque de Diveloppement du Mali pursuant to Ordonnance No. 5/CMLN of


﻿7
June 4, 1971, will at all times be efficiently managed; that such Fund will be
utilized only for the purposes described in such Ordonnance; that the annual
budgetary allocations to such Fund shall be sufficient, as agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, to cover the expenditures referred to in Article
3 of such Ordonnance; and that the credits to such account provided for in Article
2 of such Ordonnance shall be promptly made in order to ensure the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Road Fund.
Section 4.06. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange views on
the recommendations resulting from the study carried out under Part F of the
Project, and the Borrower shall implement any necessary adjustments in freight
rates according to a schedule satisfactory to the Association and with the objective
of allowing carriers to cover the costs of their services.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Directorate and, in respect of the Project, of the other departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
infonnation shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Directorate and, in respect of the Project, of the other departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform    each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictiois, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿9
(a)   the right of the Borrower to utilize the proceeds of the USAID Loan
shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of the USAID Loan
Agreement;
(b)   the USAID shall have demanded repayment of any part of the USAID
Loan in advance of maturity pursuant to the provisions of the USAID Loan
Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in paragraph
(b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The date August 20, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bamako, Koulouba
Republic of Mali
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES                            Telex:      522
Bamako


﻿10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS                         Telex:   440098 (ITT) or
Washington, D.C.                         24423  (RCA)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s/ Seydou Traor6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil Works for                4,815,000         70% of total
Part B of the                                     expenditures
Project
II.  Maintenance equipment            830,000           100% of foreign
as listed in Schedule 4                           expenditures
to this Agreement
III.  Consultants' services                             100% of foreign
expenditures
(a)   Supervision of             730,000
works under
Parts A and B
of the Project
(b)   Technical                  795,000
assistance and
training under
Part C of the
Project
(c)   Detailed                   220,000
engineering under
Part E of the
Project
(d)   Study comprising            50,000
Part F of the
Project
IV.  Unallocated                    2,060,000
TOTAL          9,500,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement or
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the       -
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set


﻿13
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A.    Rehabilitation of the Bamako-Faladid-Bougouni road (about 155 km)
to design standards satisfactory to the Association;
Part B. Rehabilitation of the Faladi-S6gou road (about 223 km), to the design
standards set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
Part C.    Continuation of the ongoing program of highway maintenance and
feeder-road betterment, with supplementary technical assistance and training;
Part D.    Procurement of equipment for highway maintenance;
Part E.    Detailed engineering for the improvement of the Bamako-Kolokani
road; and
Part F.    A study of the trucking industry, including freight rates.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Design Standards: Faladid-Sigou Road
Design speed:                                            100 km/h
Horizontal curves: minimum radius                        500 m
Vertical curves: minimum radius, crest                 6,000 m
Maximum grade:                                             6 %
Pavement design load:                                      13 t
Roadway width:                                             9 m
Pavement width:                                            6 m
Shoulder width:                                           1.5 m


﻿16
SCHEDULE 4
Road Maintenance Equipment
Dump trucks                                                  12
Tank trucks (10,000 litres)                                  20
Pick-up trucks, 4-wheel drive                                 7
Light pick-up trucks                                          3


﻿17
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement
A.    Civil Works
1.    With respect to the contract described in Section 2.03(b) of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail
of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    The Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the prequalified bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the said consultants, and the reasons for the
intended award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from  those on which bids were asked.
4.    Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract.
B.    Equipment
I.    With  respect to   contracts for the procurement of road maintenance
equipment, before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
2.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the


﻿18
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
4.    Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract.


