Report No. PIC2004
Project Name               Turkmenistan-Proposed Water Supply and (@+) ...
Sanitation Project
Region                     Europe and Central Asia
Sector                     Water Supply and Sanitation
Project ID                 TMPA8867
Borrower                   Government of Turkmenistan
Implementing Agency        Mr. Amannazar Ilamanov, Minister
Ministry of Water Resources
1, Sejdi Street, Ashgabat
Turkmenistan 74400
Tel   7 3632   30 32
Fax   7 3632 29 85 39
Date This PID Prepared     March 23, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date   April 11, 1996
Projected Board Date       June 5, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1. There are five administrative regions, "vilayets," in
Turkmenistan. Tashauz is the poorest vilayet and the hardest hit, due
to its downstream location, by the environmental degradation of the
Aral Sea Basin. Of Turkmenistan's population (4 million) 890,000 (or
aost %) live in Tashauz. Of the Tashauz population, 68% are rural.
Besides the capital, Tashauz City, there are 8 administrative zones
called "etraps."   The urban population of Tashauz lives in the capital
and in the etrap centers. The rural population lives in settlements
on collective farms. The population is relatively stable with little
tendency towards out-migration.
2. Tashauz city, the etrap centers, and some of the collective farms
have centralized water supply systems which abstract water from
boreholes adjacent to irrigation canals; pump it to reservoirs; and
repump into a distribution system that delivers to street standpipes.
The only treatment is chlorination but the disinfection systems are
usually inoperative due to broken equipment or lack of chlorine. For
those not served by a piped system, multiple water sources are used
(including hand-dug wells, handpumps connected to shallow wells, water
from irrigation canals, and water from other sources delivered by
tanker trucks). These alternatives are also regularly used by those
on the piped system to augment supplies. Water distribution is
intermittent, with three two-hour periods of delivery scheduled per
day. When water is available, it runs continually because taps have
been broken or destroyed. Like other basic utilities, drinking water
is free of charge throughout the country. The most immediate water
quality problem from a health perspective is bacteriological
contamination, since disinfection of drinking water is virtually non-
existent in Tashauz. Other pollutants of health concern which have
been found periodically are lindane, lead, cadmium, and phenols.



Salinity is often in excess of the national standards.
3. There is only one sewerage and wastewater treatment system and
that is in Tashauz city. The system is in very poor condition and
only serves 60 percent of the population. The rest of the population
use on site systems, usually rudimentary pit latrines for sanitation.
Most latrines are unhygienic, poorly constructed, not well maintained
and in practice may not be used. Often there are no latrines at
communal facilities.
4. Insufficient access to safe drinking water combined with poor
sanitation practices contribute to the high rate of infectious
diseases in Tashauz. Diarrheal disease, hepatitis, and typhoid have
increased in the past fifteen years in Tashauz, and these diseases
have a significant impact on general health indices.
Project Objectives
5.  The objectives of the proposed project will be to:(i) Improve
water supply and sanitation in etrap centers and selected collective
farms in Tashauz vilayet; and (ii) Initiate institutional changes in
the water and sanitation sectors to improve financial and technical
sustainability.
Project Description
6. The proposed project would include seven of the eight etrap
centers in the region and ten selected collective farms located
throughout the region (one etrap, Turkmenbashi, is the site of a $3
million USAID water supply and sanitation project.) The beneficiaries
would total about 0,000 (150,000 represented in the etrap centers and
100,000 in the selected rural locations). The project components
would include:
(a) Rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of water supply
systems for etrap centers and selected collective farms.
This will include physical improvements to the water system
including well rehabilitation, pumping station upgrades,
reservoir and other storage facility repairs, disinfection
system installation or repairs, rehabilitation and expansion
of the distribution network, and installation of taps and
metering or flow measurement devices as appropriate. It will
also include strengthening of operation and maintenance
facilities, and laboratory and water quality monitoring
programs.
(b) Household and communal sanitation facilities accompanied by
hygiene and health education activities. This will include
improved household latrines (designed to use locally
available materials) and communal latrines with basic
handwashing facilities. It would also include a public
health education program; upgrading of public health
laboratories; training of trainers to deliver health and
hygiene education messages; and upgrading of monitoring and
surveillance systems.
-2-



(c) Institutional strengthening.    This will include technical
assistance, staff training (include study tours), equipment
and supplies.
7. Project preparation will include three rapidly implementable
demonstration projects; (i) installation of suitable taps on public
standpipes in a selected community; (ii) an artificial recharge
experiment; and (iii) a school sanitation demonstration in two
schools. Project (i) and (iii) include substantial community
participation. A social needs assessment will be conducted during
preparation to identify community participation components to the
water supply and sanitation improvements.
Project Cost and Financing
8. Total project costs are estimated at US$ 30 million and the
proposed Bank loan amount is US$ million.
Project Sustainability
9. Investments in the water sector at present are not financially
sustainable. There is significant willingness-to-pay for water. The
issue of financial sustainability will be addressed as part of the
project design project.
Project Implementation
10. The proposed project would be implemented over five years with
the Ministry of Water Resources as the lead agency.     A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established in the Cabinet of
Ministers for the implementation of another project, and it could
possibly be responsible for overall coordination of the proposed water
project and common implementation functions.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
11. The proposed project would be the second Bank lending operation
in Turkmenistan so it is too soon to learn from experience in the
country. However, lessons learned from other FSU countries include
the importance of (i) a counterpart team with authority to move the
project forward; (ii) coordination of interested parties; (iii)
detailed attention to procurement and implementation, (iv) inclusion
of local institutes.    Water supply and sanitation projects worldwide,
have demonstrated the importance for project success of (i) community
involvement from design to implementation; (ii) project simplicity in
keeping with implementation capacity; and (iii) the stakeholder
ownership.
12. The project is being designed with recognition of these findings.
To address the need for a counterpart team and ownership, the
interagency and interdisciplinary Working Group (including national
and local level members) has been formed and involved in all aspects
of project identification and preparation to date. To build
implementation capacity, the project preparation activities (including
those funded by an external grant) will be executed by the Government,
- 3 -



and plans for close supervision with the Project Implementation Unit
will support procurement and implementation capabilities. Community
involvement (which will enhance ownership) is emphasized in all
aspects of project design and implementation and will be further
guided by the social needs assessment. The project design is focused
and relatively simple to avoid delays in project execution.
Poverty Category
13. The project falls in category (b) of the Program of Targeted
Interventions. The proportion of the poor among project beneficiaries
is significantly larger than their proportion in the overall
population. The project will target the Tashauz Region which is the
poorest of all the regions in Turkmenistan.
Environmental Aspects
14. The project is expected to have a positive impact on the
environment through the improvement of drinking water quality and
sanitation facilities. Though there may be potential for negative
impacts (groundwater pollution by latrines; impacts of transfer of
waters), the project would avoid these impacts by providing for
environmentally safe design of latrines; utilizing sound groundwater
analysis and recharge systems; and choosing designs which will have a
minimal impact on the environment. Environmental category B is
recommended.
Program Objective Categories
15. The proposed project would make a direct contribution to better
environmentally sustainable development by improving water supply and
sanitation in Tashauz region and initiating water and sanitation
sectors to improve financial and technical sustainability.
Task Manager:     Rita Klees, EC3HR
Tel:202/473-4186
Fax:202/477-0954
Contact Point:    Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 4 -



Environmental Annex
Major Project Components: There are three main project components (i)
Rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of drinking water supply
systems for etrap centers and collective farms. This will include
physical improvements to water systems, strengthening of operational
and maintenance facilities and upgrade of water quality laboratories,
(ii) Household and communal sanitation facilities accompanies by
hygiene and health education activates. This will include improved
latrine design and construction and a public health education program;
and (iii) institutional strengthening will include technical
assistance, training, equipment and supplies.
Major Environmental Issues: None
Other Environmental Issues: The project is expected to have a positive
impact on the environment through the improvement of drinking water
quality and sanitation facilities. Potential for negative impacts
includes groundwater pollution by latrines; impacts of groundwater
extraction and degradation due to construction of pipelines.
Proposed Actions: The project provides for environmentally safe
latrines; utilizing sound groundwater analysis and recharge systems;
demonstrates improved wellfield operations for improved water quality;
improves public health and drinking water quality laboratories and
monitoring capabilities and focuses on rehabilitation of existing
systems rather than new construction.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: Since most of the
work will be rehabilitation of existing water supply systems, improved
design of existing latrines and provision of latrines where no
sanitation is currently practiced, no adverse environment impact is
foreseen. The proposed project has been rated B.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: N/A
- 5 -



