             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                      International Development Association                                 87187
                        International Finance Corportation
                    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                 CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                    EDS97-177
                                                                                                  May 27,1997


    Board Meeting of May 27,1997
    Statement by Andrei Bugrov


                           Turkmenistan: Country Assistance Strategy
                                               and
                  Urban Transport Project and Water Supply and Sanitation Project


    1.      We welcome the opportunity to discuss the first Country Assistance Strategy for
    Turkmenistan and the two projects presented in conjunction with the CAS. We commend
    the staff for their preparation.

    Country Assistance Strategy

    2.      The CAS document contains a thoughtful and frank analysis of the state of
    economic and social affairs in Turkmenistan, discussion on most critical development
    issues and assessment of the Government's gradual approach to reform. On the basis of
    thorough consideration the Staff make a convincing conclusion that, while being broadly
    appropriate in terms of the overall thrust and direction, the Government's reform program
    at present falls short - both in the scope of reform it envisages and the pace of
    implementation - of what would be needed to achieve its economic and social objectives.

    3.       We appreciate the openness and realism of the CAS in dealing with the issues on
    which differences of view between the Government and the Bank exist (e.g., the exigency
    of price, trade and foreign exchange liberalization, budget consolidation and
    rationalization of public investments) and the fact that the Staff candidly recognize their
    limited knowledge and the need to strengthen their understanding of the Turkmen
    economy.

    4.     We agree with the concept and design of the CAS. The suggested phased plan for
    the Bank Group's assistance, involving CAS Progress Report at the end of FY98, seems
    quite appropriate. It provides for the needed flexibility and leaves enough room for
    adjustment. Indeed, one should not expect a full-fledged Bank program for the three-year

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                                   2


term in a situation where serious uncertainties yet remain as regards the country's overall
development context and the Government's plan of action.

5.      Thus far the Turkmen authorities have performed very cautiously on the reform
front. They keep arguing in favor of gradualism as a fundamental principle of change. At
the same time they continue to work very actively on the modalities of their reform
program, trying to find optimum approach to the large and rather specific set of the
transition problems of the country. And we would not be surprised if in the near future
we would witness a major broadening of the scope and significant acceleration of the
pace of the reform process in Turkmenistan.

6.      It is important to note that in their active search for solutions to pressing structural
and sectoral problems, the Turkmen authorities remain open to dialogue with the Bank
and its advice. The very fact that the CAS document before us has been prepared at the
special request of the Government is a clear indication of its increasing interest in a closer
relationship with the Bank.

7.      In our view, this is also an indication that the authorities are indeed considering a
more decisive advancement on the reform front and, with this in mind, would like to
have a formal Bank CAS as a framework for their own possible action and for likely
financial support from the Bank Group and other donors. And we find that the CAS
paper is good in this respect.

8.      We agree with the composition, sequencing and triggers of the proposed Bank lending
program. We appreciate the thorough discussion on donor coordination. In our opinion
particularly commendable is the depiction of how the World Bank Group planned assistance
interlaces with other donors' programs (para. 48 and Annex A6).

9.      From our point of view, the intended significant increase in the Bank's non-lending
activity is fully warranted. We agree with the selected priorities for analysis and dialog in FY98
(para. 40, 41) and the planned shift of the analytical emphasis in FYs 99-00 toward poverty and
natural resource management. While endorsing the incorporation of all suggested studies and
activities into Bank assistance program, we would like to stress in particular the importance of
providing the Turkmen authorities with an independent and realistic assessment of the prospects
for gas export. Such an assessment would be very useful due to the centrality of the gas factor
in many of the Government's strategic considerations.

10.     We welcome very much the recent broadening and strengthening of Government-Bank
dialog and cooperation, of which the CAS document is not the only concrete result. Also before
us today are two investment projects which have been prepared by the Staff in close
collaboration with the Turkmen authorities at national and sub-national level and with extensive
participation of various stakeholder groups. Both projects are badly needed by Turkmenistan and
will facilitate important institutional and policy reforms in the urban transport and water and
sanitation sectors. We extend our full support to these projects and would like to make only a few
very selective comments on each of them.
                                                  3




Urban Transport Project

11.      This project addresses high priority needs of the majority of the population in the cities of
Turkmenistan who depend exclusively on public transport for work and social trips. In order to
meet this increasingly undersatisfied demand urgent improvements in the sector are necessary in
terms of quantity, quality and efficiency of service. Cun·ently the fleet of public transport
vehicles and maintenance facilities have deteriorated and are in very poor condition. Besides the
severe infrastructure deficiencies the urban transport sector in Turkmenistan suffers from weak
institutional settings and low cost recovery.

12.     Given the Bank's extensive experience in dealing with urban transport sector issues--
especially its most recent experience gained from Russian and Kazakh Urban Transport Projects
that are similar in many respects to the project under consideration-- this institution is very well
positioned to effectively support the Government's reform program in the sector.

13.    The project includes purchase of nearly a hundred buses of which only ten will be CNG-
powered. Common sense suggests however that, taking into account the economic (low cost
abundant supply of CNG), climatic (temperature very seldom drops below freezing point) and
environmental (lower noxious emissions) considerations, the CNG-powered buses would be the
most appropriate for Turkmenistan. Could the Staff provide some clarification in this regard?

Water Supply and Sanitation Project

14.     This project addresses very serious problems of increasing access to potable water and
improving basic sanitation. Geographically it is focused on Dashkhovuz velayet, the
administrative region where these problems are particularly pressing. Dashkhovuz is also the
poorest region of Turkmenistan and the one severely affected by the Aral See environmental
crisis. In Dashkhovuz velayet most of health indicators, including the incidence of water and
sanitation related diseases, are worse than in the rest of the country.

15.     We are pleased to note that this project incorporates an extensive amount of stakeholder
participation. The range of participatory activities which took place during project identification
and preparation includes an impressive number of stakeholder workshops and focus group
discussions, and two demonstration mini-projects conducted with involvement of different
stakeholders and active engagement of a local NGO.

In conclusion

16.     With the adoption of the CAS and two investment projects the Government of
Turkmenistan and the Bank enter a new phase of cooperation. The implementation of their joint
plans will have a strong influence on the people's attitude to reforms and the further reform
disposition of the authorities. We wish the Bank and the Government every success in this new
phase of cooperation.
