Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16142-TM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURbKMENISTAN
Water Supply and Sanitation Project
April 24, 1997
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Manat
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Manat per US$1
Parallel
Official        Commercial       Market
1993 (end)                       2                                2
1994 (end)                       75               -               200
1995 (end)                       200              2484            2,500
1996(end,estimate)               4,070            5194            5,200
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
TURKMENISTAN - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director: Yukon Huang, EC3DR
Division Chief: Robert Liebenthal, EC3HR
Task Team: Rita Klees (Task Manager), Betty Hanan, Joana Godinho, Evelyn Villatoro, Ronald Venezia, Mona Malhotra
(EC3HR), Zoe Kolovou (LEGEC), Subash Chandra (LOAEL), Donald Cullivan, Ian Walker, Michael Blackburn
(Consultants).



LIST OF ACRONYMS
ASP      -    Aral Sea Program                       TOR       -    Terms of Reference
ASPERA  -    Aral Sea Project for                    TGC      -    Turkmen Geology Committee
Environmental and Regional            UFW      -    Unaccounted for Water
Assistance                            UNDP   -    United Nations Development
ATTA    -    Assistance to the Turkmenistan                         Program
Area                                  UNEP    -    United Nations Environment
CC       -    Component Coordinator                                 Program
COM      -    Cabinet of Ministers                   UNICEF -    United Nations Children'sFund
DRWASA    - Dashkhovuz Regional Water and            USAID   -    United States Agency for
Sanitation Authority                                 International Development
FSU      -    Former Soviet Union                    WHO      -    World Health Organization
GDP      -    Gross Domestic Product
g/l      -    Grams per liter
GoT      -    Government of Turkmenistan
GOST    -    Russian Standards
HCS      -    Housing and Communal Services
IBRD     -    International Bank of
Reconstruction and Development
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
lIP      -    Immediate Impact Project
IMF      -    International Monetary Fund
IS       -    International Shopping
IMR      -    Infant Mortality Rate
KAP      -    Knowledge, Attitudes and
Practices
KWH      -    Kilowatts per hour
Mcm      -    Millions of cubic meters
Mid      -    Millions of liters a day
MMR    -    Maternal Mortality Ratio
MOA      -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOE      -    Ministry of Education
MOH      -    Ministry of Health and Medical
Industries
MWR    -    Ministry of Land Reclamation and
Water Management
NA       -    Needs Assessment
NCB      -    National Competitive Bidding
NGO      -    Non Governmental Organization
NS       -    National Shopping
O&M      -    Operation and Maintenance
PCC      -    Project Coordination Committee
PA       -    Project Account
PHRD    -    Japanese Policy and Human
Resource Development grant
PIU      -    Project Implementing Unit
PPF      -    Project Preparation Facility
RCC      -    Regional Component Coordinator
RWSD    -    Rural Water SupplyDepartment
SA       -    Special Account
SES      -    Sanitary Epidemiological Services
SOE      -    Statement of Expenditures






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKMENISTAN
Water Supply and Sanitation Project
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I. BACKGROUND                             ........................1.......................... 
A.  Country  Context  ............................................                                                                                  1
B     Regional Context  ............................................    2
C.   Sectoral Context and  Institutional Setting  .............................    5
D.  The  Government's  Objectives  and  Strategy    ...........................    7
E.  The  Bank's  Strategy   ..........................................    8
F.   Bank  Experience  in  the  Sector ....................................                                                                         8
G. Donor Coordination    ...........................................  9
1I. WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION IN DASHKHOVUZ  ....................  11
A. Water Supply    .............................................                                                                                   11
B. Sanitation   ................................................                                                                                   15
C. Health   ..................................................                                                                                     16
III. THE  PROJECT                  .......              .............. ...........................                                                             18
A.  Project Origin  and  Formulation  ..................................                                                                           18
B.  Objectives   ..............                                                  ...............................                                   19
C. Description   ...............................................                                                                                   19
D. Estimated  Costs  ............................................                                                                                 23
E.   Project Financing               ..........................................                                                                   24
F.  Environmental Impact  ........................................                                                                                25
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  ....... ..                                                                                  ............  27
A. Overall Project Management . .................................  27
B.  Component Coordination   ......................................                                                                               28
C.   Project Reporting                ..........................................                                                                  29
D.  Project Monitoring    .........................................                                                                               30
E.  Bank  Supervision  ...........................................                                                                                30
F.  Procurement  ..............................................                                                                                   30
G.  Disbursements    ............................................                                                                                 34
H.  Project Accounts, Budgets and  Audits    .............................                                                                        37
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ...........                                                               ..................   38
A.  Scope  of Analysis   ..........................................                                                                               38
B.  Financial Analysis   ..........................................                                                                               38
C.   Fiscal Impact and  Cost Recovery  .................................                                                                          39
D.  Economic  Analysis    .........................................                                                                               39



E. Affordability  .......................   40
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .............. ...............   42
A. Project Benefits  ..........................................   42
B. Risks ............. 42
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ...........                   ..      ...............  43
A. Agreements Reached .........................................  43
B. Recommendation  ...........................................  44
ANNEXES
A:  Presidential Decree and Policy Letter ...............     I     ................ 45
A-1: Policy Letter .............................  45
A-2: Presidential Decree .47
B: Executive Summary Social Needs Assessment .48
C: Institutional Assessment .54
D: Water Quality Data .62
E: Cost Recovery Considerations for Dashkhovuz Velayet .63
F:  Review of the Tuyamuyun and Lebat Regional Water Supply Schemes .67
G: Health Data                  ..71
H: Demonstration Projects .75
1:  Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Sanitation Authority: Proposed
Organizational Structure and Action Plan .78
J:  Project Implementation  Plan  ......................................  81
K: Detailed Cost Tables .87
L: Environmental Analysis .90
M: Project Implementation Unit .94
N: Supervision Plan .101
0: Performance Monitoring Indicators .103
P: Procurement Arrangements .105
Q: Disbursement Arrangements .108
R: Financial & Economic analysis .109
S: Terms of References (TORs) .146
T: Project Documents in File .186
MAP      IBRD No. 28390
TABLES
Table 3.1 - Estimated Project Costs .23
Table 3.2 - Financing Plan .24
Table 4.1 - Summnary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .33
Table 4.2 - Proceeds of the Loan .35
Table 4.3 - Annual and Cumulative Disbursements .36
CHART
Chart 4.1 - Annual and Cumulative Disbursements (World Bank Fiscal Years) .35
Annex M - Organizational Chart for Project Management and Implementation .100



TURKMENISTAN
Water Supply and Sanitation Project
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Turkmenistan
Implementing Agency:   Ministry of Land Reclamation and Water Management (MWR)
Beneficiaries:         Ministry of Land Reclamation and Water Management (MWR)
Ministry of Health and Medical Industries (MOH)
Poverty:               Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                US$ 30.3 million
Terms:                 Payable in twenty (20) years, including five (5) years of grace at the
Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollars single currency
loans.
Commnitment Fee:       0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Onlending Terms:       Not Applicable
Financing Plan:        See para. 3.15.
Rate of Return:        22.2% IERR for urban and 10.6% for rural water supply systems
Staff Appraisal Report:  16142-TM
Map:                   IBRD 28390
Project ID Number:     TM-PE-8867






TURKMENISTAN
Water Supply and Sanitation Project
I. BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
1.1    Country Profile. Turkmenistan, the southernmost republic of the Former Soviet Union (FSU),
is bordered to the west by the Caspian Sea, to the south by Iran and Afghanistan, to the east by Tajikistan
and to the north and northeast by Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. The country gained its independence on
October 27, 1991. Turkmenistan lies in the midst of two of the largest deserts in the world, the Karakum
and Kyzyl Kum, and 90% of its land is considered arid. With an area of 488,000 kmi2, it is the fourth
largest country of the FSU.
1.2    Turkmenistan is one of the least urbanized of the FSU countries with 45 % of the total population
in urban areas. The country's small population of 4.5 million people is concentrated in a thin strip of
land along the foothills of the South and in areas where the land is irrigated. The nation's capital,
Ashgabat, is the largest urban center with an estimated population of 500,000. Compared to other
countries of the FSU, Turkmenistan's health indicators are poor. Life expectancy is the lowest (62 for
males and 69 for females); the infant mortality rate (IMR) is the highest (46/1,000); maternal mortality
is the fifth highest; fertility rates are relatively high; rates of cardiovascular diseases are extremely high
and increasing; and respiratory, digestive, infectious and parasitic disease are also among the highest of
any FSU countries.
1.3    Turkmenistan's economy is dominated by energy and agriculture. It has 1.3 trillion cubic meters
of proven and probable natural gas reserves and is the world's fourth largest natural gas producer. It also
has 1. 1 billion tons of oil reserves. Despite these energy reserves, the economy is still predominantly
agricultural. Cotton, grains, fruits and vegetables are the major crops. At present, agriculture is
experiencing low earnings, low yields, low efficiency of water use, and problems of soil quality. Nearly
50 percent of all irrigated land is defined as suffering problems of high water table, salinity, or both.
1.4    Water Resources. Turkmenistan is a desert country with average annual rainfall varying between
90 nmm in Dashkhovuz (the project target area) to nearly 400 mm in the southwest highlands. Agriculture
is entirely dependent on irrigation and most of Turkmenistan's limited water is used for irrigation. Of
nearly 25 km3 of water delivered in 1993, about 98 percent was used for irrigated agriculture (this
includes losses estimated at approximately 50 percent) and the rest for domestic and industrial purposes.
About 99.5 percent of the water supplied was from surface sources. Reuse in irrigation of drainage water
from irrigated agriculture and reclaimed municipal wastewater is not practiced in Turkmenistan.
1.5    Four rivers provide surface water in Turkmenistan. The Amu Darya River, which supplies 90
percent of the water for all sectors, is the major source of water supplies. Within the country, water is
further distributed by an extensive network of irrigation canals totalling more than 30,000 km in length,
the majority of which are open and unlined. Groundwater resources cannot be fully utilized since most
of the aquifers are relatively deep and remote from the main agricultural consumption areas making the



Page 2                                        Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
costs of extraction and conveyance prohibitive. The amount of groundwater presently utilized is very
low.
1.6    Agriculture, a vital component of the Turkmen economy, is constrained by the availability of
water. Declining soils and water quality/quantity will have significant implication for future agricultural
development possibly thwarting plans to diversify the agricultural base from one almost entirely dependent
on cotton to one that will enable the country's food requirements to be met. Agricultural regions lying
close to the Aral Sea will be particularly affected. Improved management of water resources will be
needed if agriculture is to grow on a sustainable basis' and would include a policy to improve the
efficiency of water use. Currently there is no appropriate pricing policy for water for any sector. A draft
Water Law is currently under consideration that would provide the legal basis for charging for water. In
addition, under the Aral Sea Program-Project 1. 1 (see paras 1.10 and 1. 11) a draft National Water
Management Strategy has been developed which proposes water pricing for all purposes. Turkmenistan
has issued a water sector policy letter (Annex A-I) indicating a commitment to water charging for
beneficiaries of the proposed project. The policy strategy has been further advanced by a Presidential
Decree (Annex A-2) indicating water charges will be initiated as the project's water supply systems come
on line.
1.7    Macroeconomic setting. At independence in 1991, based on expectations of an impending natural
gas export bonanza, the Government put adjustment and transition issues on hold and launched a plan to
modernize the capital city. In addition to free health and education, it proclaimed an extensive subsidy
and entitlement program and strengthened centralized controls. It maintained distorted trade and foreign
exchange regimes and retained state orders and price controls on many items. Results have been
disappointing and over 1993-95 real GDP fell by more than 30 percent, gas production declined by three-
fifths, and real minimum monthly wages by an estimated 80 percent. By the end of 1995, annual
inflation exceeded 1000 percent and per capita income (US$ 920 in 1995 according to the modified Atlas
Method) was significantly below the FSU average. However, a serious stabilization initiative was pursued
during much of 1996 and this made substantial inroads in reducing inflation. There were also a number
or positive developments in structural and sectoral policies, especially in agriculture. Over the last year,
the Government has outlined some of the main elements of a reform strategy in a concept document
issued by the President. It has implemented a number of sectoral reforms and has stated its intention to
accelerate efforts aimed at macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment.
B. Regional Context
1.8    The Aral Sea Basin. The Aral Sea basin covers an area of 690,000 km2 and is occupied by five
Central Asian republics, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan and
parts of northern Afghanistan and northeastern Iran. All of Turkmenistan lies in the Aral Sea Basin. The
Aral Sea, an inland lake fed by the Syr and Amu Darya Rivers, lies between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan
and was once the fourth largest inland lake in the world. Over the past 35 years, intensive cotton farming
and agricultural development have diverted so much water from the two rivers which feed the Aral Sea
that its shore line has retreated by more than 120 kilometers; the sea level has fallen more than 16 meters;
the surface area has decreased by nearly 50%; the volume diminished more than 70%; and salinity has
risen to over 30 grams per liter.
"'Turkmenistan Review of the Agrarian Sector" The World Bank, May, 1996



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                     Page 3
1.9    The quality of ground and surface water resources in the Aral Sea Basin has deteriorated as a
result of these intensive agricultural water withdrawals combined with industrial and agricultural
wastewater discharges; soil salinity; and erosion. The ecosystems of the Basin's deltas have suffered
from spreading desertification, diminishing stream and groundwater levels, and increasing soil salinity.
Once the location of successful commercial fishing, hunting, navigational and recreational activities, today
the region in the immediate vicinity of the Aral Sea, including portions of Turkmenistan, is considered
an environmental disaster zone and all traditional economic activities associated with the Aral Sea are
terminated.
1.10    Aral Sea Program. In response to requests for assistance from the five Aral Sea Basin states,
the World Bank first visited the environmental disaster region of the Aral Sea Basin in September, 1992.
In partnership with local representatives, the Bank analyzed a range of sectoral problems in the region
including environmental, economic, agricultural, and health. The five Aral Sea states have worked in
cooperation with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the United Nations Environment
Program (UNEP), and the World Bank to develop a plan of action, the Aral Sea Basin Program, to
address the problems in the Aral Sea basin. The Bank has taken a leading role in the development and
implementation of the Program, including donor coordination, technical assistance to all projects, and
capacity building assistance to regional institutions. One of the three objectives of the Aral Sea Program
is to ameliorate the conditions for the population in the disaster zone with a focus on the provision of
improved drinking water supplies.
1.11   At a meeting of the Heads of Government of the five Aral Sea Basin states in February, 1994,
it was decided to include the Turkmenistan Water Supply and Sanitation project in the Aral Sea Program.
Three Water Supply and Sanitation projects for Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, respectively,
were presented to, and accepted by, the Heads of the Governments of the five Aral Sea States in Paris,
June, 1994. At this meeting it was decided that the World Bank would take the lead in identifying and
preparing a water supply and sanitation project focusing on the region of Turkmenistan most affected by
the Aral Sea disaster, Dashkhovuz Velayet. Additional projects under the Aral Sea Program particularly
the regional water resource management project were designed to identify the means and mechanisms of
combining Basin states' development goals/interests with long term water resource and environmental
management objectives.
1.12   Dashkhovuz Velayet. Turkmenistan is divided into five administrative regions, "velayet" one of
which, Dashkhovuz, comprises the Turkmen portion of the Aral Sea disaster zone. The Velayet has an
average annual rainfall of only 107 mm. As a consequence of its location on the lowest reaches of the
Amu Darya River in Turkmenistan, the area is the most affected by conditions related to the Aral Sea
Basin degradation. Dashkhovuz velayet has a population of 951,000 (1996) of whom 300,000 (32%)
are classified as urban and 651,000 (68%) as rural. The region is characterized by families larger than
the national average and high population densities. Approximately 50 percent are women and children
under the age of 14.
1.13   Dashkhovuz velayet has a capital city, Dashkhovuz City, with a population 154,000, and eight
administrative zones called "etraps. " The urban population of Dashkhovuz live in the capital and in eight
etrap centers, "city-type" settlements which are small cities of 10,000 - 32,000 population. Most of the
rural population live in an estimated 104 collective farms. The farms are further divided into rural
settlements or villages. There are an estimated 520 villages, or roughly five per collective farm. The
average collective farm population is about 6,000 and the largest is about 16,000. The average village
has a population of 1,200. In terms of water supply and sanitation characteristics, only a proportion of



Page 4                                         Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project
the inhabitants of Dashkhovuz can be classified as urban. The etrap urban centers and collective arms
both have similar levels of service which are effectively rural in nature.
1.14   Health Indicators. Health status in Turkmenistan is poor, as compared with other FSU countries
and health status is poorer in Dashkhovuz velayet than in the rest of the country. The poor and declining
health is attributed to degradation of the environment; qualitative and quantitative deterioration of the
drinking water supply; poor sanitation and hygiene practices; protein and vitamin deficiency; and
inadequate and declining health care services.2
1.15    The birth rate is higher in Dashkhovuz than in the country, and has been decreasing at a lower
rate than the rest of the country. The infant mortality rate (IMR) in Dashkhovuz is the highest of any
etrap in the country (47.5/1,000 live births). Maternal mortality is reported to be more than twice as
high in Dashkhovuz (96.3/100,000 live births) than in the rest of the country. Malnutrition, anemia and
goiter are common problems in Dashkhovuz. Local health authorities report that 100 percent of pregnant
women and 80 percent of women have anemia although no specific studies of malnutrition and anemia
have been conducted.
1.16   There is a high incidence of communicable diseases, and particularly water and sanitation related
diseases such as diarrheal diseases and hepatitis A. Children below age 14 account for about 80 percent
of registered cases of diarrhea, and 50 to 70 percent of hepatitis A cases. Data about salmonella and food
poisoning indicate that food-borne diarrhea may be a greater problem than water-borne diarrhea.
1.17   Socio-economic conditions. Project preparation included a Social Needs Assessment to ensure
that objectives and interventions would address the actual needs of the affected population and would be
acceptable to all beneficiaries, especially the poor. The Social Needs Assessment, which was carried out
in collaboration with local social science experts, included a community profile on overall socio-economic
conditions in the project area; a survey of 790 households in all project etrap centers and fourteen
collective farms; and a study of water supply and sanitation facilities in schools, health facilities, and
enterprises. These activities were conducted in April-May, 1995. Results of the social needs assessment
were used to: (i) provide baseline information on socio-economic conditions, water supply services,
hygiene and sanitation practices; (ii) to help identify suitable community based demonstration projects and
their location; and (iii) to guide project design. The community profile showed that the velayet as a
whole can be characterized as predominantly rural. The main ethnic group is Turkmens, followed closely
by Uzbeks, with very small populations of Kazakhs and Russians.
1.18   The needs assessment revealed that the major concern of the population in the project area is the
lack of basic food products. Overall both rural and urban households spend about 85 percent of their
earnings on food. Concerns about the quality of water ranked second as a household concern. Hygiene
and sanitation related needs are not reported to be priorities. Close to 40 percent of households describe
the general state of health of their family members as "not very healthy." Average annual household
income was reported to be $356 ($376 rural and $336 urban) and consists of various components: salaries
earned by working persons, unemployment benefits, extra earnings from participation in the cotton
harvest, earnings from the sales of home garden products and privately owned livestock, and income from
other informal activities. The assessment revealed the importance of income from secondary and informal
2 World Bank Turkmenistan Health Sector Review, 1995



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect                                     Page 5
sources to Dashkhovuz households, especially to rural families. In collective farms part of annual income
is paid in monthly installments, and the rest is paid as an annual bonus at the end of the fiscal year. For
many rural families, this income system results in considerable uncertainty and financial vulnerability.
Often monthly salaries are several months in arrears. Because of inflation and fluctuating prices for
agricultural goods, especially cotton, it is difficult for many households to forecast the amount they can
expect to be paid by farm management and to plan investments accordingly. Annex B provides more
information on the needs assessment.
C. Sectoral Context and Institutional Setting
1.19   Institutional Setting: Water Supply and Sanitation. Responsibility for the water supply and
sanitation sectors is shared amongst over nine national organizations (Ministries of Water Resources,
Agriculture, Environment, Health; Turkmen Geology comrnmittee; Institutes of Design, Chemistry; and
Housing and Communal Services, Desert Research Institute); regional organizations including the Rural
Water Department and city departments; and etrap level water and sanitation authorities. Annex C
provides an institutional assessment including details of sector responsibilities.
1.20   With some relatively minor differences, Turkmenistan has followed the model of the FSU in
providing water, wastewater, sanitation and health services to its people. The FSU model was based on
strong control from Moscow (after independence, Ashgabat) in matters such as policies, planning and
allocation of financial and other resources; with very limited input from the end-users of the services in
the villages, towns and cities. The present water and sanitation institutional setting has the following
weaknesses: (i) allocation of responsibility for the sector among too many government agencies; (ii) a
wide range of responsibilities other than water and sanitation assigned to the principal agency charged
with providing water supply; (iii) lack of technical and management skills throughout the sector; (iv) the
absence of a coherent program for the effective operation and maintenance of water and sanitation
facilities; (v) inadequate focus on the importance of providing effective means of excreta disposal; (vi)
inadequacy of funding for both capital construction of new and replacement facilities, and for operation
and maintenance of existing facilities; and (vii) a national policy which provides water services at no cost
to the users.
Organizational Weaknesses
1.21   Lack of Focus on Sector Responsibilities Housing and Communal Services (HCS), before it was
disbanded as a ministry, was responsible for the provision of water supply to the people of Turkmenistan.
Since disbandment, that responsibility has not been represented at the ministerial level. The Ministry of
Land Reclamation and Water Management (MWR) has the important responsibility of serving as the
adjudicator of how the country's scarce water resources are to be allocated and it is presently the ministry
most closely associated with the provision of public water supply. However, MWR has no department
with responsibility for the public water supply sector. At the velayet level, HCS is responsible for public
water supply and for wastewater collection and disposal. However, HCS has many other responsibilities,
and water and wastewater is just one of many communal services in its portfolio.
1.22.  Gaps in Responsibilities The most obvious gap in sector responsibilities is that for the provision
of safe and convenient means of excreta disposal. Current analyses of health studies indicate that
hygienic disposal of human excreta is one of the most critical requirements to assure the health of the
people. The Housing and Communal Services department is responsible for the provision of piped
sewerage systems for the disposal of wastewater, but there is only one such system in the entire velayet,



Page 6                                        Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project
in Dashkhovuz City. As no other urban settlement has any significant levels of interior plumbing, there
is currently no need for other piped sewer systems. HCS also has the responsibility for pumping out
public latrines, but this is a very limited effort. There are no safe and economic means presently
available for the sanitary removal and disposal of household excreta wastes. The great majority of the
people in Dashkhovuz utilize very simple but unhygienic pit latrines, and no organization has
responsibility for the design, construction or promulgation of adequate latrines, or programs for the
education of the people in the importance and hygienic use of latrines.
1.23   Overlapping Responsibilities  Some 68% of the population of Dashkhovuz live in rural areas,
yet less than half of these people are served by the Rural Water Supply (RWS) department. In other
velayets, MWR has responsibility for rural water supply.  Even in Dashkhovuz, MWR has the
responsibility for the construction of rural water systems, while RWS only has operational
responsibilities. The water systems that RWS operates are very similar to those in the urban settlements,
yet RWS and H4CS, which operates the urban systems, function independently.
1.24   National Sector Policy Problems One of the problems with national policy is its failure to assign
clear responsibility for the water, wastewater and sanitation sector. Another problem is the existing law
preventing sector utilities from collecting fees for the services they perform. The lack of long term
planning for the sector is one of the consequences of failure to assign overall sector responsibility to a
specific government agency. The inadequacies of the existing systems and the large numbers of people
without adequate water or sanitation services have several causes, but inadequate funding is one of the
principal ones. National pricing policies and lack of focussed responsibility are among the principal
causes of the lack of funding.
Operational Weaknesses
1.25   Planning and Management There is little evidence of long term planning to overcome existing
deficiencies. Even the current crisis of providing water only a few hours per day appears to be accepted
with resignation, though there is evidence that water is being wasted under present procedures in volumes
which considerably exceed the amounts required to meet the needs of the people 24 hours per day. In
many tables of organization, far too many departments report to the head of the organization. Systems
for the accurate collection of financial and technical operating data, and for the distribution of this
information to managers are inadequate. Realistic budgeting and cost estimating are not practiced at the
water supply utility level.
1.26   Operation and Maintenance  The current financial difficulties contribute to severe operational
problems. Critical parts and supplies are rarely available. Equipment is often cannibalized, and any but
the simplest of repairs usually must be made in Dashkhovuz City or, more commonly, back in Ashgabat.
Procurement procedures are centralized and complicated, and operators have little control over obtaining
the equipment and supplies they require. There is little preventive maintenance, or the tools with which
to accomplish it. On the other hand, there is often no budget for grease, pump packing , tools or other
materials and supplies. Operators rarely have copies of the plans and specifications for the works under
their responsibility, and no operating manuals or guidelines. Almost all the piped water systems in
Dashkhovuz Velayet utilize water from shallow wells adjacent to irrigation canals. Some problems with
degraded water quality from these wells result from operation of the wells in a manner that does not
comply with recommendations from the authorities of the Turkmen Geology Committee's (TGC)
hydrogeological companies.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                     Pame 7
1.27   Human Resources   Salaries of employees in the water, sanitation and health sectors in
Dashkhovuz Velayet are extremely low, particularly in relation to the Capital. For instance, employees
of the carpet factory in Ashgabat earn twice the pay of a senior engineer in most departments in
Dashkhovuz, where typical salaries at the senior levels are in the order of less than US$ 20 per month.
Working conditions are poor, with inadequate vehicles for transport, poor communications and sparsely
equipped and furnished offices. Training programs are few and generally inappropriate. Training (most
of it dating back to pre-independence) often seemed to focus on design and advanced technologies rather
than meeting actual needs.
1.28   Institutional Setting: Sanitary, Epidemiological, Health Education.  The Sanitary and
Epidemiological Services (SES) of the Ministry of Health and Medical Industries (MOH) are responsible
for drinking water quality monitoring for supplies from municipal water supply systems; and for
sanitation and hygiene surveillance. The SES have major centers in Ashgabat and in the capital cities of
the five Velayets including Dashkhovuz City, and stations in all etrap centers. SES has the responsibility
for testing drinking water quality. Water samples are taken from public systems at the point of supply,
the distribution systems, and selected users, including schools and homes. The frequency and number
of tests depends upon the size of the system being monitored. Sampling is said to take place once or
twice a month, on average. SES follow the Russian (GOST) drinking water standards developed by the
FSU which cover about 28 constituents. SES normally only test for a few of these constituents
particularly E-coli, salinity, hardness, taste and odor. SES has the authority to levy fines against
communities which fail to chlorinate and to shut down systems which fail bacteriological tests. Officials
whose systems frequently fail to meet the standards are subject to criminal prosecution. It appears these
sanctions are rarely imposed. In Dashkhovuz, the SES have three laboratories in the capital (regional
bacteriological laboratory, regional chemical laboratory, and city laboratory) and one bacteriological
laboratory in each etrap center. Annex D provides limited water quality data.
1.29   The SES have scarce resources. Receiving only 3 percent of the total MOH budget, SES is
seriously underfunded. As a result of severe budget limitations, SES suffers from buildings of limited
size and poor quality; shortage of operable vehicles; and laboratories with failing equipment and
inadequate supplies of chemicals.
1.30   The Center of Health is a Department of the MOH with branches in each Velayet. With
responsibility for health promotion and health and hygiene education, they cover a wide range of topic
in all kinds of institutions (schools, enterprises, polyclinics, hospitals) with the main educational method
being the lecture. Although Turkmenistan has a strong tradition of health education, presently the
activities conducted in the country and within Dashkhovuz are very limited due to financial constraints.
The Dashkhovuz Center of Health is poorly equipped, lacks the most basic supplies such as paper and
cartridges for a copying machine, and the staff need to be trained in modern methods of health promotion
and health education.
1.31   Intersectoral Action and Donor Coordination. Cooperation between the water supply,
sanitation, health and education sectors is not developed in Dashkhovuz, and, at the national level, the
donor efforts in the sectors need to be coordinated. An interagency working group was formed on the
national level to guide project preparation.
D. The Government's Objectives and Strategy
1.32   The Government has indicated its intention to advance the development of the water and sanitation



Page 8                                         Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
sector (Annex A-1) through achieving the following objectives: (i) increased access to potable water and
improved sanitation facilities in particular those groups living in the most disadvantaged areas; (ii)
development of the institutions in charge of production and distribution of potable water and sanitation
services and improvement of their technical and financial capacities; (iii) protection of the environment
and of public health; and (iv) protection of water resources and their optimum utilization. Key elements
of the strategy to accomplish these objectives include: (i) restructuring of the institutions charged with
the delivery of water and sanitation services; (ii) increasing the responsibility and accountability of the
management of the water sector: (iii) initiation of cost recovery mechanisms including a tariff setting
policy whereby revenues would cover the full cost of operation, variations in working capital requirement
and regular preventive measures. The Government intends to initiate the institutional and cost recovery
reforms in the water sector on a regional level first, followed, depending on progress, by reforms on the
national water sector level with the objective of improving the effectiveness of the sector throughout the
country.
E. The Bank's Strategy
1.33    The Banks' program has developed slowly but steadily reflecting the limited but growing Bank-
Government dialogue on development issues and approaches. A Country Economic Memorandum was
issued May 31, 1994. The first loan was approved by the Board for the Institutional Building/Technical
Assistance (IB/TA) project in FY95 and the IB/TA loan is now in implementation. A Country Assistance
Strategy has been prepared, at the request of the Government, for discussion by the Board on May 27,
1997, together with this project and with the proposed Urban Transport project.  As described in the
CAS, the Bank's strategy is to proceed in phases based on the evolution of the Government's reform
effort. The Bank's efforts would emphasize analytical work, technical assistance and policy dialogue to
assist the Government to remove remaining distortions which could constitute barriers to the transition,
and to the efficient development of its designed priority sectors which are agriculture, oil and gas, social
sectors, and infrastructure.
1.34   The Bank's role in the potable water and sanitation sector is to support the Government efforts
to improve the water supplies and sanitation facilities in the part of the country most severely affected
by the consequences of the Aral Sea crisis and which are the most poorly serviced with regard to water
supply and sanitation; and to strengthen the institutional and policy framework for potable water supply
and sanitation services. The Bank has responded with the Water Supply and Sanitation Project, as agreed
during the June 1994 donor conference in Paris.
F. Bank Experience in the Sector
1.35   Lessons learned from Bank experience in Turkmenistan, other FSU projects, and the Bank's water
supply and sanitation portfolio have been incorporated in the design of the Project.
1.36   Turkmenistan and the FSU.  The IB/TA  project, only project in implementation in
Turkmenistan, experienced initial delays but currently ratings for development objectives, implementation
progress and project management are satisfactory. Lessons learned from other FSU projects include (i)
the need to identify a consistent counterpart team with sufficient authority to move the project forward;
(ii) the difficulty of coordinating among interested parties, (iii) the importance of early detailed attention
to procurement and other implementation issues; and (iv) the importance of including local institutes in
project preparation and design.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                         Page 9
1.37   Water Supply and Sanitation Sector. Major lessons learned from the Bank's past water supply
and sanitation projects indicate that projects should include the following3: (i) an adequate regulatory
framework and, linked to it, appropriate tariff levels and billing and collection mechanisms to generate
the funds needed for financial autonomy and to signal the real cost of water to the consumers; (ii) reversal
of the preference of decision-makers for new capital expenditure over proper operation and maintenance
(iii) clear measures to reduce unaccounted-for-water, and (iv) user involvement in the setting of priorities
to improve ownership and cost-sharing of operation and maintenance functions.
1.38   The project reflects concern for learning from past experience and reduction of risks. The
proposed project has been developed through close collaboration with the Turkmen authorities at the
national and velayet level and concerned sectoral ministries and institutes which will be involved in
implementation. An interagency working group was formed at project identification and it has been
involved in project preparation and design. Local social scientists were trained and engaged to conduct
the Social Needs Assessment. To ensure that the Government assumes greater responsibility for the
project and develops a sense of ownership and capacity for implementation, the Government fully
executed the PHRD grant which funded project preparation. All preparation missions have conducted
workshops for the Government and other stakeholders on Bank operations. The project includes close
Bank supervision and monitoring and sustained assistance to authorities throughout implementation. A
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established using a Project Preparation Facility prior to
appraisal and includes technical assistance. The PIU will include component coordinators representing
the water supply, sanitation and health implementing agencies, respectively. User involvement has been
extensive during preparation (para 3.2) and would continue into implementation.
1.39   One of the project's main components is institutional strengthening of the water and wastewater
sector. The establishment of a specialized autonomous regional water and wastewater authority is one
of the major outputs of the Project and capacity building of the water and health sectors at the regional
level is a primary objective of the Project. The proposed project will assist in training and information
dissemination through the national institutional strengthening component. The project's physical works
concentrate on rehabilitation, the minimization of physical and commercial water losses and the correction
of deferred maintenance as a means of improving efficiency. The project would emphasize strengthening
of operation and maintenance capacities. The project will initiate water charges in Turkmenistan and,
through the institutional strengthening component, assist in the development of appropriate tariff levels
while strengthening the institutional capacity to establish and collect tariffs. Rehabilitation of the supply
systems, redesigning of the faucets to provide automatic shut-off; and consumer education will reduce
unaccounted for water.
G. Donor Coordination
1.40   The project has been developed in close coordination with other donor activities in the region,
particularly UNICEF, USAID, and UNDP. To ensure collaborative efforts which build on one another's
activities, the project identification mission included representatives of UNICEF and USAID. Preparation
of the project includes a school sanitation demonstration project which was developed by UNICEF staff
to ensure similarity of strategy and approach. The project's sanitation and health component was
3References for this section included:
I . Water Supply and Sanitation Projects. The Bank's Experience, 1967-1989, OED, June, 1992
2. Annual Review of Portfolio Performance (ARPP) FY 93, Water and Sanitation Sector, TWURD, April, 1994.
3. World Bank Policy Paper on Water Resources, 1993



PaRe 10                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect
designed to build on the activities of UNICEF's Aral Sea Project for Environmental and Regional
Assistance (ASPERA) now in implementation in Dashkhovuz. USAID provided assistance during project
identification on water quality data analysis and laboratory assessment. USAID has a water supply and
sanitation project in one of the eight etraps in Dashkhovuz. The project chose the other seven etraps as
project sites to avoid duplication. The World Bank has assisted the USAID project by supplying water
tankers through the Immediate Impact Project (IIP). UNDP is implementing a small-scale pilot urban
water supply project in Ashgabat.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                                   Page 11
II. WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION IN DASHKHOVUZ
A. Water Supply
2.1     Water Service Levels: Urban Areas.4  All of the etrap centers have a piped water supply which
delivers water to communal street standpipes. Some households have individual yard taps but this varies
widely amongst the centers from less than 10 percent to as much as two thirds. Very few residences have
household connections. The piped systems theoretically serve approximately 108,000 people (75 percent
of the total population in the seven etrap centers included in the project). However, the existence of these
systems does not mean actual delivery of safe drinking water.  Due to the enormous losses within the
systems and the deteriorated conditions of the wells and pumping facilities, the piped system is unable
to achieve the design pressures and supply volumes. Low pressure in the system leads to the deliberate
removal of faucets from street standpipes in an effort to facilitate access to the small amount of water
which arrives. Over pumping of the wells in an effort to compensate for losses in the system leads to
increased salinity and accelerated depreciation of the pumps. Thus water is delivered only 3-4 hours per
day, at very low pressures and is not disinfected. Focus group discussions determined that spending two
hours per day in obtaining water from the piped systems was not uncommon for many families. Those
who do not depend upon piped water supplies as their primary drinking water source resort to hand dug
wells (12 percent) and bored wells with hand pumps (7 percent). About 9 percent of urban households
use water purchased from a vendor as their primary source of drinking water. Approximately 60% of
the urban schools have a piped drinking water supply. Hand dug wells are the second most common
source of drinking water (24%).
2.2     Water Service Levels: Rural Areas.  The most important source of drinking water in rural
households is wells, often in a neighbor's yard (51 percent hand dug; 35 percent bored). Overall, about
20 - 30 percent of rural households have access to a functioning piped water system. Water vending is
non-existent. Currently, only 20,000 people (24% of the total population in the villages of the nine
kolkhoses in the project) have even limited access to piped supplies. There are virtually no house
connections in the rural areas. The number of yard connections is unknown. Water delivery is similar
to that of the etrap centers. There is no inventory of handpumps which are locally made. Based on field
visits, it was concluded that due to the poor design of the handpump components, the water is unlikely
to meet bacteriological water quality standards. In some collective farms, surface water (irrigation
canals, ponds, rivers) is the primary source of drinking water. Household boiling of drinking water for
disinfection purposes is generally not practiced. Piped water is generally unavailable to rural schools with
wells being the most conmu-on source of drinking water (51 %) followed by surface water sources (20%)
usually irrigation ditches. Boiling of school water supplies is practiced sporadically.
2.3     Water usage for drinking, other domestic purposes, livestock watering and irrigation of vegetable
4 Information on household water supply and sanitation service levels and use comes from the "Turkmenistan Water Supply and Sanitation
Needs Assessment" (NA) November, 1995. The household survey included 790 households. All of the etrap centers included in the
project were in the household survey whereas 14 percent of the velayet's 104 collective farms were surveyed. The term "urban" refers to
the etrap centers and is used to distinguish the centers from the collective farms which are classified as "rural." The etrap centers, however.
do not show "urban" features and can be considered "rural" in nature.



Page 12                                         Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project
gardens is determined by the user in accordance with the amount required and relative requirements for
water quality for each purpose. In general, households switch from piped water and hand pumps to wells
and surface water bodies to draw water for washing and cleaning. To water their home gardens,
households use mainly water from surface water sources. However, water for livestock is usually drawn
from the same source that supplies households with drinking water. In all etrap centers, piped water is
the main source of water for livestock. The major water quality issue for most consumers appears to be
the salinity.
2.4    Piped Systems. The piped water supply systems for both the etrap centers and the kolkhoses use
shallow wells adjacent to, and hydraulically linked with, an irrigation canal as the water source. These
wells are typically 10 to 25 m deep, and between 4 and 12 are provided for each system, depending on
the size of the settlement and the well performance. The water is pumped to a nearby ground reservoir
where chlorine is intended to be added, but rarely is because of lack of funds or equipment failure. The
distribution pump station then draws water from the reservoir and pumps directly into the distribution
system. Quality of the groundwater is highly dependent on the quality of water in the irrigation canals,
and the principal effect of the shallow aquifer is limited to filtering out suspended solids. This type of
piped water supply infrastructure is appropriate for the area but is in extremely poor condition. This is
a consequence partly of inferior construction techniques, and partly of chronic low investment in
maintenance.
2.5    Quality of the Water Source. Since much of the irrigation water abstracted from the Amu
Darya River is returned as drainage water, surface water quality reflects the usage of pesticides and
fertilizers. Water quality data prior to 1989 indicated excessively high concentrations of pesticide and
fertilizer residues. However, since independence, the usage of these chemicals has subsided dramatically
and significant improvement has been documented in water quality. Bacteriologically however the water
quality continues to be very poor. In 1994, 54 percent of some 6,000 Dashkhovuz water samples failed
to meet the bacteriological limits of 2 coliform/100 ml. Field investigations conducted during project
identification found coliforms as high as 60/100 ml reported in SES laboratory records. Salinity is an
area of potential concern. At present, salinity levels are generally below I g/l (the WHO guideline
concentration and National Standard), but if the current trends continue, the salinity in some areas may
reach 1.5 g/l by the year 2000. It should be noted, that the WHO guidelines on salinity are based on
aesthetic (taste) considerations and not health and there is no epidemiological data indicating a direct
impact on health for salinities in this range. However the taste may drive users to alternate, less-safe
(bacteriologically) supplies. Annex D provides water quality data for Dashkhovuz. (Detailed water
quality data and analysis of water quality laboratories can be found in Project Documents - "Project
Identification Mission: Background Note, Appendix A Chapters B and C, Assessment of Water Quality
and Laboratories.)
2.6    Maintenance Problems. Maintenance of the systems is unsatisfactory. This is a result of a
combination of factors, including lack of spare parts and chemicals; inadequate funding for vehicles,
repair tools and equipment; and substandard training.  Very few  of the systems have operating
chlorination systems, with the result that water is delivered to users with no disinfection. Pumps and
pump station pipework is usually a mixture of different sizes and types of equipment, much of it
inoperable, which leads to frequent supply failures. In most towns, water is provided to users only two
or three times a day, for a total of between 3 to 5 hours per day, and sometimes even less. Often this
limited supply does not reach consumers at the extremities of the distribution systems.
2.7    Distribution Piping. The distribution piping systems are also in a poor state of repair, with high



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                        Page 13
leakage rates and frequent breaks. A mixture of pipe materials are used, depending on availability, which
again gives problems for the operators. The majority of the population are supplied through street
standpipes, although households with yard taps are not uncommnon. In Dashkhovuz city there are a
limited number of house connections. Because system operation is usually limited to less than 6 hours
per day, the street standpipes are either broken or missing, so that a large proportion of the water
supplied by the system runs to waste. Similarly, yard taps are often left on, and water collected in
containers, or left to run into gardens. Freezing is sufficiently severe that little water is provided on an
average of 20 days during colder winter months. The results of a demonstration project in Gubadagh,
carried out as part of the project preparation, showed that when suitable taps are installed and maintained,
pressures in other parts of the system increase, improving the overall system performance.
2.8    Distribution Storage. Storage capacity within the systems is extremely limited. In urban systems
there is usually no storage apart from the balancing reservoirs provided at the site of the wells and pump
station. All water is pumped directly into the distribution piping network. The rural systems frequently
have very small elevated storage tanks in the system, but this usually serves to limit pumping pressures
only, and provides no useful storage to balance diurnal demand variations, or provide water during
interruptions in supply.
2.9    Unaccounted for Water. The level of losses in the urban distribution systems is very high.
Officials report providing 100-200 liters per capita per day (Ipcd) while observed and reported
consumption is 15-25 Ipcd. Project preparation consultants estimate only 15% to 25% of the water
pumped into the systems reaches the users. Much of this extremely high proportion of unaccounted for
water is believed to result from losses at the standpipes. Since they are not fitted with shut-off valves
(taps or faucets), they run continuously when the distribution system pumps are operated. Even if the taps
were repaired, the resulting increases in pressure would likely increase breaks in the distribution piping.
A significant amount of system rehabilitation as well as new standpipes will be required before pumping
pressures can be increased to a level which would provide a normal minimum pressure of about ten
meters in the distribution system. For those users who have yard taps, the intermittent nature of the
system operation results in the taps often being left open in order to maximize the amount of water they
receive, and to determine when the water has been turned on. This results in high levels of wastage
which could only be addressed by providing a continuous supply, and possibly by installing meters.
2.10   Charges for Water. Neither urban nor rural consumers are charged for water, as a result of a
Presidential decree which states that water, gas and electricity5 should be provided by the state free of
charge. There is. therefore, no incentive for those with yard taps or house connections to conserve water,
or for the remainder of the population to reduce wastage from the street standpipes. Given the present
inadequacies of the water systems, it would be very difficult to justify any charges at this time but the
project will initiate cost recovery of operation and maintenance costs as is discussed further in Annex E.
2.11   Groundwater Sources Within the Velayet of Dashkhovuz. Extensive exploration and research
has been carried out to determine the availability of groundwater resources for use by the Velayet. There
are ample groundwater resources in the project area. The restriction to groundwater use is the quality
of the water, which by different processes and to varying degrees is mineralized and/or polluted. The
confirmed estimate of availability of good quality (< I g/l salinity) water from the Quartenary alluvium
is 280.000 m3/day. There are three aquifer levels in the Velayet. One is a shallow aquifer that in some
5 Up to KWH per month per family member is free, and a very small charge is made for usage above that amount.



Page 14                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
areas is suitable for use for potable supplies. For the most part, the two deeper aquifers are highly
mineralized (salinities between 34 and 60 g/l) and unsuitable for use without desalination. The shallow
aquifer generally is hydraulically linked to the irrigation canals, and in these areas the water, while
relatively saline, is suitable for use as potable supplies without treatment other than disinfection. Some
use is made of groundwater from the shallow aquifer in areas remote from the canals, but the quality
is poor (salinity over 15 g/l), and only limited quantities are available
2.12   Consideration of Alternative Water Sources. The deterioration in quality of the Amu Darya
River water in the 1960s and, after independence, political considerations related to the fact that the river
flows through Uzbekistan at times, resulted in the study and development of alternative water sources for
the Velayet. Two regional schemes for augmenting water supply sources have been proposed by technical
organization within the Government as solutions for the water supply problems of the Velayet. The
schemes are the Tuyamuyun reservoir surface water scheme, and the Balqui aquifer groundwater source
in the Velayet of Lebat. Extensive investigations have been carried out on both these schemes by local
organizations, and construction began several years ago on the Tuyamuyun supply scheme. As part of
the project preparation activities, a detailed review of the two schemes has been carried out and is
summarized in Annex F.
2.13   Tuyamuyen Reservoir. The adopted scheme was based on the use of waters from the Tuyamuyun
and associated reservoirs, which are located within Turkmenistan. Two options considered included (1)
the use of water directly from Tuyamuyen reservoir, or (2) the use of waters from the Kaparas reservoirs,
which would then be restricted for potable use only. In either case, a water treatment plant would be
required which would pump water through a 180 km long pipe line to a storage reservoir near the city
of Dashkhovuz. Other pump stations and transmission mains would be required to provide water for the
etrap cities. Work began about 1989. About 90% of the un-lined, un-wrapped steel pipeline has been
installed, and about 50% of the civil works for the treatment plant has been completed. A lack of funds
has brought a virtual halt to construction since 1993. There are serious questions about the expected life
of the completed pipeline, and the quality of civil works completed to date is poor. The estimated cost
to complete the scheme as originally planned for all urban areas in the Velayet is $515 million. The cost
just to complete the works needed to supply the city of Dashkhovuz is $215 million. Completion of the
Tuyamuyen scheme, even if it were within the financial limitations of the proposed project, would not
meet the objectives of the project in providing improved supplies in both urban and rural areas. The
majority of the new water would go to Dashkhovuz City, at the expense of the etrap centers. The
feasibility study concluded that the costs of the scheme are not justified by the improvement in quality.
2.14   Lebat Balqui Aquifer. There is a major groundwater resource in the neighboring Velayet of
Lebat, although this would require a pipeline 250 km long to convey the water to Dashkhovuz. Further
exploration is needed to define the yield of the source, but work carried out to date indicates that only
a small proportion of this resource has salinity levels of less that 1.5 g/l, considered the maximum
concentration for a marginally acceptable water supply. The combination of a limited volume of
marginally acceptable water with the very high cost of transporting it to Dashkhovuz indicates that this
cannot be considered as a viable source. The estimated cost to transport the water to the city of
Dashkhovuz is $85 million if the Tuyamuyun-Dashkhovuz pipeline is utilized, or $240 million if the
water is to be pumped independently to Dashkhovuz. The project feasibility study concluded this is not
a viable option for the Velayet.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                          Page 15
B. Sanitation
2.15   Sanitation Service Levels: Urban Areas. Sanitation, as used in the project, refers to the safe
disposal of excreta. Only Dashkhovuz city has a waterborne sewerage system, and this serves mostly
high-rise residential housing units, industries and commercial developments that use large volumes of
water. In the etrap centers, the sole method of sanitation is the basic pit latrine. Temporary latrines are
those with a temporary hand dug sub-structure (unlined pits 1-2 meters deep) and a temporary super-
structure. When the pit is full it is closed with soil and the super-structure is shifted. Permanent latrines
are elevated pit latrines with a permanent super-structure and substructure which can be emptied either
manually or by truck. The evacuation of the private latrines is the responsibility of the homeowners, and
generally it is not done. Both types of pit latrines are used in public areas such as schools, markets and
public buildings, and also in private homes. In urban areas outside of Dashkhovuz City, i.e. the etrap
centers, 90 percent of urban households have a latrine (37 percent are permanent) typically used by 6-7
people; the other 10 percent of households rely on public latrines. Emptying public latrines is the
responsibility of the Department of Housing and Conmmunal Services in the Velayet. To carry out this
task, they are equipped with pump trucks, tractor trailers, dumpers, and workers. At present, most of
the required equipment is in disrepair. There is no independent budgetary provision for excreta disposal
and expenditure is incurred for this purpose from the general budget of street cleaning works. Individual
home owners either pay privately for emptying their latrines, or else the owner digs a new pit and moves
the latrine superstructure to the new location. Whether public or private, the latrines are usually poorly
constructed, most are highly unsanitary, most are without handwashing facilities adjacent to or even near
the latrine, and soap is not available. All etrap center schools have pit latrines, generally permanent
latrines, with approximately 100 students/latrine. Observation finds that the latrines are usually very dirty
and no hand washing facilities are apparent.
2.16   Sanitation Service Levels: Rural Areas. The situation is similar for the rural areas, apart from
the fact that there is no authority responsible for emptying the pit latrines. In rural areas 95 percent of
households have pit latrines: 72 percent of households have temporary latrines, 23 percent have
permanent latrines. Five percent use communal latrines. For those with "permanent" latrines (those with
substantial buildings housing the latrine), it is usually the householder's responsibility to arrange for the
collective farm's transport authority to transport the contents of the pit latrine to designated disposal
areas, although there appears to be no formal obligation for the collective farms to assist in this way.
Owners with temporary latrines fill in old pits when they are full, then dig a new pit and move the
latrine's above-ground enclosure. This is done about once or twice a year. Rural schools are equipped
with latrines, usually of the permanent type with about 50 students/latrine. Reported hand washing
facilities are less common than in urban schools, and again, observation finds the latrines to be very dirty.
2.17   Disposal of Latrine Wastes. Reuse of human waste is not practiced in the region. There are no
facilities for the proper treatment and disposal of wastes removed from latrines. As there is practically
no use of flush toilets outside Dashkhovuz Velayet, the wastes to be disposed of are not liquid septage
but relatively solid material. The present practice is to dispose of such wastes in areas on the fringes of
the communities where most solid wastes and trash is taken for disposal. Neither the latrine wastes nor
the solid wastes are covered. There is no effective regulation of this method of disposal of latrine wastes.
2.18   Disposal of Wastewater. Wastewater is generated only in Dashkhovuz city, which is not a part
of this project. The collected wastewater is pumped to a location on the edge of the desert, some 10 km
southwest of the city. About 1980 the wastewater was provided with primary treatment, but that plant
was abandoned in 1985 after only five years of operation. The wastewater now is pumped to the former



Page 16                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
sludge drying beds, which serve as heavily loaded anaerobic lagoons. Flow is believed to be in the order
of 15,000 m3/day, and any overflow from the rough earth lagoons either seeps into the ground or
evaporates in the desert.
2.19   On the household level, most households (78%) pour wastewater into a waste pit in their yard
or in the vicinity of the house. Some (10%) use sullage to water their garden but sullage is never used
to water animals. The rest (12%) pour sullage into surface water sources or only streets to reduce dust.
2.20   Monitoring/Regulation of Sanitation and Hygiene. Hygiene in the project is defined as the
practice of keeping oneself and one's surroundings clean. The Sanitary-Epidemiological Services (SES)
of the Ministry of Health (MOH) is responsible for sanitation and hygiene surveillance, but this function
seems to have a low priority compared with monitoring water quality. No institution is responsible for
construction and maintenance of handwashing facilities at public latrines, and SES does not require the
construction of washing facilities adjacent to latrines.
C. Health
2.21   Although much data exists on health conditions in Turkmenistan and in Dashkhovuz velayet,
health data collection, analysis and reporting are unreliable. Most diagnoses are purely clinical, and are
not confirmed by laboratory or other tests; autopsies are rarely performed; all data handling is done
manually, accounting for many errors and data inconsistencies; data is not collected by gender and, as
for age, only two groups are considered, the under and above 14 years of age. Therefore, data about
all diseases needs to be interpreted and used cautiously. Results of the Needs Assessment were used to
check correlation between child (age 0-15) diseases (reported in the survey) and primary source of
drinking water. Statistically significant correlation was found between (i) intestinal parasites and hand
pumps as primary drinking water source, and (ii) hepatitis A and surface water as primary drinking water
source. Like official health data, these results need to be used cautiously. What is certain is that water
supply, sanitation and hygiene are all very poor in the Velayet and these are factors commonly associated
with poor health. Annex G provides relevant national and local health data.
2.22    Factors Contributing to Poor Public Health. Cost effective interventions with an impact on
health including water quality monitoring and disinfection, breastfeeding, immunization, and treatment
of diarrheal disease could significantly reduce the burden of communicable diseases in Dashkhovuz
Velayet but the health services responsible for these interventions have not been able to perform an
adequate job. An imbalance exists between preventive and curative services. While access to health care
is universal, the concern for prevention appears to be low. Health promotion and health education are
very limited. Neither the general populace nor the local health officials make an association between
sanitation (proper excreta disposal) and personal hygiene with health. Nor do they consider diarrhea an
important health problem. The general population and health authorities blame environmental factors,
particularly the physical and chemical quality of the drinking water, as the most important cause of poor
health. Interest in water quality far exceeds interest in sanitation and hygiene, and concern with water
hardness and salinity exceeds concern with the bacteriological quality of water, which is extremely poor.
2.23   Health Education. The Centers of Health are responsible for health education activities. The
Ministry of Health (MOH) is developing some health education activities, and is collaborating with the
Ministry of Education in implementing a new health education curriculum that includes sanitation and
hygiene The MOH and UNICEF have been using health education materials developed by ATTA
(Assistance to Turkmenistan Association), a local NGO with external support, and some of these concern



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                        Page 17
hygiene and sanitation. The Centers of Health, however, are severely constrained due to lack of supplies
and equipment; and training and the impact of their activities is very limited.
2.24   Constraints to Water and Sanitation Sector Development. Progress in improvements to the
water and sanitation sector may be limited by the following constraints: (i) the absence of a focussed
responsibility for the sector at the national level; (ii) the weak enforcement abilities of MOH/SES in
monitoring the acceptability of water quality, and of the Ministry of Environment in monitoring the
acceptability of disposal of wastewater, septage and latrine wastes; (iii) most rudimentary requirements
for a well-managed sector utility are missing; and (iv) the national policy of free drinking water. In the
absence of the ability to charge users for the services performed, the sector utilities are dependent upon
grants from the national budget for both capital and operating costs. Since independence, the only
significant expenditure for new water facilities in Dashkhovuz Velayet has been for the Tuyamuyun water
transfer project. That project is incomplete and no additional funds have been made available for about
three years. More critically, funds for operating and maintaining the existing works have been acutely
inadequate for several years, resulting in the premature loss of benefits from previous investments.



Page 18                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
3.1    This proposed project forms Component 5.2 of the Aral Sea Program drawn up to address the
environmental impacts of the Aral Sea crisis. The project was specifically intended to improve the health
of the population in the region most affected by the Aral Sea disaster by investing in water and sanitation
infrastructure. The project would be the first infrastructure investment operation in Turkmenistan,
therefore it was designed to be focused and simple to implement both technically and administratively.
Project identification and preparation determined that piped water systems, already in place in many parts
of the region although in a state of disrepair, were appropriate for the region and the service of choice.
Since the loan amount could not rehabilitate and expand the piped water system for the entire velayet,
it was decided that the project would focus, in an equitable fashion across the etraps, on under-served
areas with particular attention to the rural population. Noting significant sector institutional weaknesses
on the national and regional level, the project was designed to include institutional restructuring and
strengthening.
3.2    Participatory Approach. The proposed project incorporates an extensive amount of participation
by stakeholders at all levels.  During Project preparation, nine workshops were held with project
stakeholders to discuss the project concept and design, and key project issues including cost recovery,
reorganization of the water and wastewater sector, community participation components, and project
implementation arrangements. In these workshops, stakeholders endorsed the project concept and design
and agreed upon the approaches taken within the project design to address the key issues. Beneficiaries
indicated willingness to participate on a household and community level in operation and maintenance of
the water systems and sanitation activities. A Rapid Needs Assessment was conducted during project
identification followed by a Social Needs Assessment which included 790 household surveys; inventories
of communal water supply and sanitation facilities; and fourteen focus group discussions. Results were
used to provide baseline information and guide project development and were presented at Stakeholder
Workshops. During preparation additional focus group discussions were used routinely to guide two
demonstration projects conducted under preparation and to provide additional background information.
Additionally, a local NGO has been actively engaged in project preparation and implemented the
community components of the two demonstration projects. The demonstration projects successfully
utilized community based approaches to water supply systems and sanitation and these approaches have
been incorporated into the project.
3.3    Project Preparation. The Ministry of Water Resources has undertaken project preparation with
technical assistance from Electrowatt Engineering. Feasibility work has been financed by a PHRD grant
of Yen 85.6 million (about US$800,000). The feasibility work included two demonstration projects: the
installation of effective taps on street standpipes in Gubadagh; and the construction of improved latrines
and handwashing facilities at a school in Boldumsaz. Results of the street standpipe demonstration form
the basis for the standpipe rehabilitation component and the development of community involvement in
operation and maintenance. The results of the sanitation project were used to design the community-
based school sanitation component, as well as the hygiene and health education activities. Annex H
describes the demonstration projects in detail.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                    Page 19
B. Objectives
3.4    The objectives of the proposed project would be to: (i) improve water supply and sanitation in
seven etrap centers and nine collective farms in Dashkhovuz velayet; and (ii) initiate institutional changes
in the water and sanitation sector to ensure that the project is financially and technically sustainable.
C. Description
3.5    Project Components. The proposed project comprises four main components: (a) water supply
improvements; (b) sanitation and health; (c) institutional strengthening; and (d) project management and
construction supervision. The components and their estimated costs are described in the following
sections.
3.6    Water Supply Improvements (US$ 20.1 million, or 70 percent of project base cost.) The aim
of this component is to rehabilitate and expand water systems to seven etrap centers and nine collective
farms (spread out amongst the etraps), and to provide a supply of spare parts and repair materials to assist
in operating these systems for the first year after completion. Project identification and preparation
determined that the piped water systems already in place, although in a state of disrepair, were
appropriate for the region and the least cost solution for improving drinking water supplies. The
household survey revealed that piped water systems were the service of choice. Furthermore, from a
public health perspective the piped water systems offer the best quality water and the opportunity to
disinfect the public water supply. During project identification it was determined that improvements to
Dashkhovuz City water supply system would 1) be of such magnitude that there would be little financing
available for the rural areas; and 2) require major rehabilitation of the wastewater collection and treatment
facilities. Since the major needs for access to a safe water supply are found outside the capital city, it
was determined to focus the project on the secondary cities, etrap centers, and rural farms  The three
subcomponents of the water supply improvements include:
a.     Urban Water Supply System Improvements Rehabilitation of water facilities in urban
towns (US$ 8.7 million). This subcomponent will rehabilitate the water supply systems in seven
etrap centers in the Velayet (Akdepe, Boldumsaz, Gubadagh, Kune-Urgench, Niyazovsk, Tagta
and Yilanly) from the water source to public street standpipes. No yard or household connections
would be included. The project would repair existing street standpipes and provide new taps as
required to provide spacing of about 70 m between taps, which was the Soviet standard. This
amounts approximately to 3-5 households per standpipe.  The project will include the
rehabilitation of 26 km of transmission mains with diameters ranging from 400 mm to 250 mm,
and 211 km of distribution pipework between 300 mm and 100 mm in diameter. The existing
wellfields will be rehabilitated and new borehole pumps and controls installed. The water
distribution centers will be renovated, and new electrical systems, mechanical plant, and
appropriate chlorination equipment will be installed. The present street standpipes will be replaced
with an improved design that will reduce wastage and freezing during winter months. This
subcomponent will reduce water losses, reduce operation and maintenance costs, improve water
quality by reducing the risk of groundwater infiltration to the system, as well as providing
extended hours of supplying water under pressure to the towns. These improvements will allow
chlorinated water to be supplied to 108,000 consumers throughout the daytime hours (at least 15
hours per day, with the goal of 24 hrs/day) instead of the few hours per day that unchlorinated
water is now available. The component would finance civil works and technical assistance.



Page 20                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
b.     Rural Water Supply System Improvements Rehabilitation and expansion of water supply
systems in collective farms (US$ 10.4 million). This subcomponent will rehabilitate and expand
the water supply systems in 47 villages in nine collective farms (Ersarieva, On Yil Abandanlik,
Bereket (Gubadagh etrap), Maslahat, Shodlik, Magtimguli, Andalip, Kirk-Giz, and Darjalik),
distributed amongst the seven etraps. Delivery will be through public street standpipes. It will
include rehabilitation of 64 boreholes in nine wellfields, including installation of new pumps and
control equipment. A total of 94 km of transmission main will be rehabilitated, and 31 km of new
mains installed. The seven water distribution centers will be renovated and new mechanical and
electrical equipment installed. In the distribution systems, 125 km of new mains will be
constructed, and 2,025 km rehabilitated, along with upgrading of 1,800 existing street standpipes
and installation of 3,400 new standpipes. This subcomponent will reduce water losses, reduce
operation and maintenance costs, improve water quality by reducing the risk of groundwater
infiltration to the system, as well as providing extended hours of supplying water under pressure
to the collective farms. These improvements will allow chlorinated water to be supplied to 82,000
people (including 62,000 not previously served by a piped water system) throughout the daytime
hours (at least 15 hours per day, with the goal of 24 hrs/day) instead of the few hours per day
that unchlorinated water is now available to only 20,000 people in these collective farms.
c.     Operational Support Provision of supplies to operate and maintain the water systems
(US$ 1.0 million). This subcomponent will provide additional spare parts (beyond those provided
by manufacturers of equipment), tools, chemicals and other equipment which are essential for
operation and maintenance of the systems. The items provided will include pipe tapping
equipment, spare pipes and fittings, repair clamps and other spares. Chemicals for two years
operation will also be provided. This subcomponent will protect the investment in the water
supply systems by allowing the operators to maintain the systems using the stocks provided until
normal purchasing channels can be arranged with neighboring countries.
3.7    Sanitation and Health (US$ 3.4 million or 12% of project base cost). The objective of this
component is to optimize the project's health benefits by improving sanitation facilities and hygiene
practices; health promotion and hygiene education; water quality monitoring; and hygiene surveillance.
The component will utilize the community based approaches to the provision of basic sanitary services
developed under the school sanitation demonstration project. Since preparation results found low demand
on the household level for improved sanitation but very poor sanitation and hygiene conditions, this
component was designed to target under-served, communal facilities and to demonstrate, and educate, with
strong community participation, to larger audiences the benefits of improved sanitation facilities. It will
rehabilitate and construct latrines and install handwashing basins in rural schools and markets in the areas
covered by the project. The three subcomponents include:
a.    Improvement of Sanitation, Hygiene and Water Supply Facilities Utilizing Communitv-
Based Approaches (US$ 0.8 million). The objective of this subcomponent is to improve sanitation
and hygiene. This subcomponent will finance the rehabilitation of latrines and installation of hand-
washing basins in about 35 schools in the nine collective farms for which water supply
improvements are being provided, and in one market in each of the etrap centers included in the
water supply component. The community involvement model developed during the school
sanitation project will be utilized in the sanitation and hygiene school program. The community
involvement model developed during the community water supply demonstration project will be
utilized and further expanded to include community activities in the operation and maintenance
of the new systems. The subcomponent will be managed by the Department of Housing and



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                    Page 21
Communal Services assisted by local and foreign sanitation engineers and community development
specialists. . The component would finance the purchase of one vehicle and equipment for each
etrap, workshops and local study tours.
b.     Health Promotion and Hygiene Education in Rural Areas (US$ 0.7 million). This
subcomponent aims at changing knowledge, attitudes and practices related to water, sanitation and
health. Health promotion and hygiene education will be carried out in the schools and markets
covered by subcomponent (a) above, and also in other rural areas. This subcomponent includes
the rehabilitation of the Dashkhovuz Center of Health. provision of equipment, training of trainers,
workshops and a study tour.
c.     Water Quality, Sanitation. Hygiene and Health Services in the Dashkhovuz Velayet (US$
1.9 million). This subcomponent aims at improving SES capabilities to test water quality , to
survey sanitation and hygiene conditions, and to conduct environmental epidemiological studies.
It would improve the performance of the Sanitary and Epidemiological Services (SES) division
of the Ministry of Health in the Velayet through purchase of equipment and supplies, technical
assistance, and training. This subcomponent will:
(i)    Improve water quality monitoring system and sanitation and hygiene surveillance
systems. Responsibility for this activity would rest with the Dashkhovuz Velayet SES,
with assistance from local and foreign specialists. This item includes purchase of vehicles
and equipment, as well as workshops for SES staff.
(ii)    Upgrade SES laboratories in Dashkhovuz Velayet. The existing 8 SES
laboratories, one per etrap, will be refurbished and equipment for bacteriological and
chemical analysis purchased. This subcomponent would finance workshops, training, and
local and foreign technical assistance.
(iii)   Improve data collection, analysis and reporting; and conduct epidemiological
studies. Training will be provided to SES staff in data collection and analysis methods.
Reporting procedures will be revised. Equipment will be furnished to improve data
analysis. Technical assistance and training in environmental epidemiology will be
provided. Epidemiological studies will be conducted as a training vehicle as well as to
investigate linkages between water and sanitation and health, and to document impacts of
the project's interventions. This subcomponent would finance technical assistance and
training from local and foreign epidemiologists and statisticians, workshop training, a
study tour, and one epidemiological study per year for 5 years.
3.8   Institutional Strengthening  (US$ 2.4 million, or 8% of project base cost.) The objective of
this component is to improve the effectiveness of the delivery of water and sanitation services to the
population of Dashkhovuz Velayet. The component is designed to address the principle sector weaknesses
which are: (1) allocation of responsibility for the sector among too many governmental agencies, (2) the
wide range of responsibilities other than water and sanitation assigned to the principal agency charged with
providing water supply, (3) lack of technical and management skills throughout the sector, (4) the absence
of a coherent program for the effective operation and maintenance of water and sanitation facilities, (5)
inadequate focus on the importance of providing effective means of excreta disposal, (6) inadequacy of
funding for both capital construction of new and replacement facilities, and for operation and maintenance
of existing facilities, (7) inadequate communication between management and consumers, and (7) a



Page 22                                        Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
national policy which provides water and sanitation services at no cost to the users. The Institutional
development component of the project will finance a two-year program of technical assistance, training
and equipment to strengthen the capacity of the government to manage, operate and maintain the facilities
which provide water and sanitation services to the people of Dashkhovuz. The centerpiece of this
component is the establishment of a Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Wastewater authority (DRWASA).
Four sub-components for building capacity for the effective provisions of water and sanitation services
are: (I) identification of national sector reforms; (2) reorganization of the water and wastewater sector in
Dashkhovuz velayet; (3) strengthening of the newly established DRWASA; and (4) a public awareness
campaign. Annex C describes these activities in detail.
a.     National Sector Reform Study. (US$ 0.2 million) The objective of this sub-component
is to recommend improvements and develop an action plan to strengthen, on the national level.
the capacity in Turkmenistan to provide water and wastewater services. Technical assistance will
be provided to conduct a study which will identify the most serious constraints at the national
level, recommend legislative or other reforms where the national constraints are the most serious
and recommend a plan of action for transferring responsibility for the sector from the national
level to Dashkhovuz velayet.
b.     Establishment of the Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Sanitation Authority. (US$ 1.0
million) The objective of this sub-component is to establish a specialized regional water supply
and wastewater authority under the jurisdiction of the Dashkhovuz velayet, which would be
granted the responsibility and powers to provide sector services to all the people of the Velayet.
A provisional table of organization for the new regional authority is presented in Annex 1. Results
of the National Sector Reform study are expected to guide development of the Authority.
Technical assistance and equipment would be financed to develop: (I) reporting relationships
between the Authority, Dashkhovuz velayet, and the national government; (2) the legal form of
the authority (3) transfer procedures for personnel, equipment and responsibilities of the existing
sector organization to the Authority, (4) new laws and regulations to strengthen the sector; (5)
sector planning; and (6) a program for strengthening the Authority (to be conducted under the
following sub-component).
c.    Institutional strengthening of the Regional Authority. (US$ 1.1 million) The objective of
this sub-component is to strengthen the capability of the newly established water and wastewater
authority to meet its responsibilities. The regional and local organizations that would be included
under the new regional organization have few of the skills or resources required to develop an
effective utility, e.g. operation and maintenance of facilities; management; collection and
dissemination of information; finance; administration; personnel; customer relations. This sub-
component will support the Government in analyzing options for cost recovery and in reaching
a decision on which option is most suitable.  This sub-component would finance technical
assistance, training, equipment and supplies.
d.     Public Awareness Campaign. (US$ 0.1 million) This subcomponent will carry out a
public awareness campaign to inform the population in the project area about improvements in
service provision and cost-recovery, as well as to educate the general population about water
conservation; safe practices for water collection and storage; linkages between water, sanitation
and health; and the role of the household and community in properly operating and maintaining
the systems. This last item will be linked with the community development activities for
community participation in water supply and sanitation systems. Feedback from numerous



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                    Page 23
community focus groups and stakeholder workshops has found that beneficiaries want more public
education regarding the new systems so that they can identify specific and appropriate mechanisms
for their participation.
3.9    Project Management and Construction Supervision (US$ 3.0 million or 10% of project base
cost). This component will cover the costs of project management (US$1.9 million) and supervision of
construction of the water supply improvements (US$1.2 million). Overall project management will be
provided by personnel in a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which will have personnel in both
Ashgabat and Dashkhovuz. The construction supervision team will be based in Dashkhovuz. It will
consist of two full time expatriate foreign construction supervisors for about 20 months, short-term
construction specialists, about 12 full-time local construction supervisors, and local support staff. The
details of the Project Management portion of this component are presented in Chapter IV. The project
implementation plan is presented in Annex J.
D. Estimated Costs
3.10   The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$33.7 million equivalent. The estimated cost and
foreign exchange by components are shown in Table 3.1. Detailed cost estimates by type of expenditure
are contained in Annex K.
Table 3.1: Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Local        Foreign   Tolal   % Foreign     % Total
Exchange       Base
Costs'
Water Supply                       4.78           15.36  :20.14      76%          70%
Sanitation and Health              1.27           2.17  1-44.        63%          12%
Institutional Strengthening        0.69            1.74    2.43      72%           8%
Project Management and             0.81           2.22    3.O3       73%          10%
Construction Supervision
Total Base Costs                   7.55          21.49   29.04       74%         100%
Physical Contingencies          0.80           2.45    1:25      75%
Price Contingencies             0.11           1.30    1: 41      92%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 8.46          25.24   33.70       75%
a/ Base cost date April, 1997
3.11   Basis of Cost Estimates. Project costs have been estimated in US dollars. Civil works and
equipment costs have been derived from a detailed feasibility study delivered in November, 1996 during
preparation of the Project. Cost for consulting services have been derived on the basis of recent cost
estimates for comparable services in other Bank financed projects in Turkmenistan including training (both
local and overseas). The costs of consulting services would include, fees, recruitment/relocation costs,



Page 24                                      Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
housing, subsistence, and overheads.
3.12   Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component has been estimated as follows:
(a) civil works (75%); (b) goods consisting of water supply and sanitation equipment, vehicles, educational
materials and chemicals (100%), furniture (80%) and local supplies (70%); (c) international consultants
and studies (100%); (d) overseas training (100%); (e) local consultants (0%); and (1) local training (30%).
These percentages have been determined assuming that basically all goods (equipment and related
supplies) would be imported, and that international consultants would be recruited internationally.
Including contingencies, the resulting foreign exchange component is estimated at US$ 25.2 or 83% of
total project costs.
3.13   Contingency Allowances. Price contingencies, representing about 3.6% of the total project cost,
are based on estimated inflation rates of 2.2% for 1998, 2.6% for 1999, 2.8% for 2000, 2.6% for 2001,
and 2.5% for 2002. Price contingencies on local costs (expressed in US dollars) are therefore based on
the same international inflation rates. Physical contingencies were estimated at 15% of civil works and
equipment, 10% of training and 5% of supplies and materials.
3.14   Taxes and Duties. All Goods (equipment and related supplies) specifically imported for the
Project would be exempt from custom duties and taxes. International consultants would be exempt from
the Government's personal income tax. Civil work contracts would be subject to all applicable local taxes
which will be paid by the Government as part of their contribution.
E. Project Financing
3.15   The total project cost is estimated at US$33.7 million with a foreign exchange component of
US$25.2 million. The financing plan is shown in Table 3.2 below. The proposed Loan of US$30.3
million would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs and about 60 percent of local costs
excluding taxes. The proposed Loan of US$30.3 million would finance about 90% of total project costs
and the Government would contribute US$3.4 million equivalent or about 10% of total project costs.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Local   Foreign    Tbtal 1     % Foreign    % Total Project
Exchange        Costs
Government of                3.40      0       3.4&t          0%             10%
Turkmenistan
Bank                         5.06     25.24  23O.3:          83%             90%
TOTAL PROJECT COST           8.46     25.24  ;3 .7Q          75%            100%
3.16   Operating Costs. Operating costs for the PIU, rental of offices, office supplies, and miscellaneous



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                      Page 25
operating costs have been included in the project. Operating costs for operation and maintenance of the
water systems are discussed in the Economic and Financial Analysis, Annex R. The institutional
strengthening component will include technical assistance to develop a tariff structure sufficient to recover
operation and maintenance costs of the new systems, as has been agreed with the Government (Annex A-
2).
3.17   The total Government contribution is estimated at US$3.4 million. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the Borrower would deposit its counterpart funds for the Project annually and in
advance in the project account, establishment of which in a commercial bank is a condition of
effectiveness.
F. Environmental Impact
3.18   Requirements for Environmental Review. For the purposes of the Bank's guideline OD.4.01,
the project is classified as Category B, which requires only a limited environmental review to determine
potential negative environmental impacts and suggest mitigation measures as required to overcome any
identified negative impacts. The required limited review was initiated during project preparation and
concluded by the preparation team and Bank consultants. The review concluded that the project would
generate significant environmental benefits with no negative impacts of consequence anticipated.
3.19   Environmental Consequences of the Project. The project is expected to have a positive impact
on public health while maintaining or improving quality and quantity of regional water resources.
Rehabilitation of disinfection systems; leak repair; improved sanitation facilities; and increased water
delivery periods would reduce levels of bacteriological contamination in the drinking water supplies.
Currently, operation of well fields often does not follow well field rules (due to malfunctioning
equipment). Such operation may lead to disruption in the design flow regime and increases the chance
of drawing water of relatively poor quality. By improving the well field equipment and operation, the
project would ensure that the highest quality water is delivered.   Technical improvements to the
distribution system including leak repair and the provision of automatic shut-off valves on public
standpipes combined with public awareness and education efforts would promote water conservation.
3.20   The project would have no adverse environmental impacts.  No resettlement, international
waterways or property rights issues are involved since the project focuses on rehabilitation of existing
facilities. All works would be executed either within the premises of existing facilities, existing public
streets or publicly owned property. The project will not affect any archeological or historical sites.
Contractors will be responsible for notification to authorities of the discovery of any previously unknown
archeological or historic sites, and the suspension of work until decisions are taken concerning necessary
steps to protect such sites.
3.21   Under the terms of the bidding documents, the contractors would be responsible for keeping
worksites pollution free, returning sites to their original condition, and minimizing dust, noise or other
work-related nuisances, and for utilizing environmentally sound practices when handling materials and
chemicals. Water soluble hypochlorite will be used for the water disinfection systems. The two year
supply of hypochlorite provided under the project will be packaged in non-hazardous small packages and
containerized as appropriate.  The construction contractor shall conform  with the manufacturers
recommendations for safe storage and handling of the chemicals. The project includes training in the safe
handling and storage of chlorination equipment and chemicals.



Page 26                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
3.22  The project recognizes that water pollution control of the region's waterways is key to water
resource management and the sustainability of the drinking water supplies. It is beyond the scope of the
project to address the causes of water pollution but the public education program will include information
regarding water pollution control at the household and community levels. Furthermore, it is envisioned
that future environmental dialogue with the Government will include discussions on water pollution
control. A National Environmental Action Plan has been discussed and would provide an excellent
opportunity to advance water pollution control initiatives.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                   Page 27
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overall Project Management
4.1    Responsibilities  for Project Implementation  and  Management Responsibility  for the
implementation of the three major components of the project would rest with the specific implementing
agencies: the Ministry of Health (MOH) for the Sanitation and Health component, and the Ministry of
Water Resources (MWR) for the Water Supply and Institutional Strengthening components. The local
authorities in Dashkhovuz Velayet and the participating etraps will also be assigned responsibilities for
specific components of the project as appropriate. Overall responsibility for project management would
rest with a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which has been established within the MWR. Details of
the PIU are presented in Annex M. In addition to overall coordination, the PIU would be responsible
for implementation functions such as project accounting, procurement, disbursements, consolidation of
quarterly and annual progress reports, annual work programs and budgets. The PIU will also provide
training and technical assistance coordination, project supervision, and assistance to the Component
Coordinators (CCs).
4.2    Organization of the PIU. The PIU will report to the Deputy Minister of the MWR responsible
for Construction and Operations. The PIU will be staffed with a director (local), an economist/planning
specialist (local), an accountant/disbursement specialist (local), an interpreter/translator (local), a secretary
(local), a project management specialist (foreign), and a procurement specialist (foreign). In addition,
the project will provide a limited number of short-term foreign consultants, including a financial
specialist. Annex M presents the organization of the PIU.
4.3    Role of the Foreign Project Management Specialist. The lead foreign specialist will provide
overall project management support and guidance to the PIU. The specialist's tasks will include an
emphasis on capacity building, as well as coordination of long-term and short-term technical assistance,
consolidation of quarterly and annual progress reports, work programs, budgets, and project accounts.
Contracting of consulting firms to assist with the implementation of the project will be coordinated by
the PIU and initiated under financing of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
4.4    Assurances were obtained at negotiations that as a condition of Loan Effectiveness, the
Borrower would have employed consultants to provide the technical assistance services to the PIU for
project management and construction supervision. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
PIU will be maintained throughout the project implementation period with staffing, funds, facilities, and
other resources in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.5    Preparation of a Project Implementation Manual. A Project Implementation Manual (PIM) will
be required in order to facilitate the management and implementation of the project. The PIM will
summarize procedures for monitoring project implementation, processing of withdrawal applications under
the loan, various methods of procurement to be followed according to the Procurement Schedule in the
Loan Agreement, use of Statement of Expenditures and overall project funds, procedures for
replenishment of project special and project accounts. The PIM will be prepared by the foreign project
management and procurement specialists in the PIU, and will be translated into Russian. The PIU's
foreign specialists will be required to organize training for the PIU's local staff, and the Component
Coordinators, in order to ensure an understanding of the procedures specified in the PIM. Submission
of a satisfactory draft of the PIM to the Bank is a condition of Loan Effectiveness. The Borrower would
adopt the PIM by December 31, 1997. Between effectiveness and the adoption of the PIM, the Borrower



Page 28                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
adopt the PIM by December 31, 1997. Between effectiveness and the adoption of the PIM, the Borrower
would implement the project in accordance with the draft PIM.
4.6    Project Coordination Committee.  The PIU will be supported by a Project Coordination
Committee (PCC), already established, whose main task will be to oversee project implementation. The
PCC will be an inter-ministerial committee to provide policy guidance for the implementation of the
project. The PCC is chaired by a senior management official in the Cabinet of Ministers (COM).
Membership in the PCC will include high-level representatives from the COM, the Ministries of Finance
and Economy, Water Resources, Health, Education, Environment and velayet authorities. The PCC
would be expected to meet quarterly, or more frequently if necessary. CCs will be invited to participate
in these meetings and the PIU will serve as the Secretariat of the PCC. The PCC will review and help
resolve all issues raised during project implementation that cannot be resolved by the responsible
implementing agencies or the PIU. Assurances were obtained at loan negotiations that the PCC will
be maintained for the duration of the project.
B. Component Coordination
4.7    Appointment and Purpose of Component Coordinators.  The implementing agencies have
appointed Component Coordinators (CCs) at the velayet level to assist the in managing the project. The
CCs will work under the direction of a Regional Component Coordinator (RCC), who will also be linked
to the Dashkhovuz Velayet. The RCC and the CC responsible for coordinating construction supervision
of the water supply component of the project have been appointed by the MWR. The two CCs
responsible for coordinating the health and sanitation component of the project will be appointed by the
MOH, specifically the Sanitary and Epidemiological Services and Center of Health divisions of the
MOH. In addition to directing the work of all the component coordinators, the RCC will be responsible
for coordinating the institutional strengthening component of the project. The relationships between the
CCs and the PIU, and to each other, are shown in the organization chart in Annex M. Assurances were
obtained at loan negotiations that the RCC and CCs will be maintained with resources and under Terms
of Reference satisfactory to the Bank for the duration of the project.
4.8    Overall Role and Training of Component Coordinators. The CCs will be the focal points for
all project activities related to their components. The CCs will be the first point of contact between their
respective implementing ministries, the PIU, and the PCC. These arrangements will remove the need
to create separate structures within each implementing ministry. A project launch workshop with the
participation of all CCs and key officials of the member ministries of the PCC, to ensure a clear
understanding of the project, proposed implementation arrangements, and the Bank's procedures and
practices will be organized immediately after Board Presentation.
4.9    Duties of the Component Coordinators. With support from technical assistance financed under
the project, all CCs will be responsible for coordinating the planning and implementation of project
activities in their respective components. Specifically, the CCs would be responsible for the preparation
of the annual work programs and budgets, ensure that project accounts and records are maintained, and
that supporting documentation is kept in an organized manner for the preparation of funding requests
from the Special Account. In addition, they will be responsible for the preparation of quarterly and
annual progress reports.  The CCs also would be responsible for coordinating the planning and
implementation of project activities at the etrap level, consolidating the annual work programs and
budgets and ensuring that the project financing requirements are incorporated in the velayat budgets
before they are sent to the PIU, and subsequently to the MOF, during the annual budget preparation



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                  Page 29
process. They will also review and consolidate the annual programs and annual reports before they are
sent to the PIU.
C. Project Reporting
4. 10   Work Programs (WPs). Implementation of the project will require the preparation of annual
work programs and budgets. Separate work programs would be prepared for the components under the
two implementing ministries. WPs would also be prepared for each participating etrap. The first draft
WPs would cover the period July through December 1997. Subsequent WPs would be prepared and
submitted to the Bank by October 31 of each year to coincide with the normal Government budget cycle.
The draft WPs would be submitted to the Etrap Council as part of the etrap budget for approval. In the
budget proposals, project activities would be clearly identified and set aside for any follow-up. The WPs
would be forwarded to the Velayet Administration through the Velayet CCs, who would consolidate all
the WPs from the etraps. The Velayat Council would then approve the consolidated WPs and forward
them to the PIU through the CCs.
4.11   Contents, Submission and Review of Work Programs. The WPs would include the following:
(1) a statement of the objectives to be pursued for the coming year; (2) an up-dated inventory of all
works/services to be undertaken during the period; (3) total costs for the budget year for rehabilitation,
equipment, supplies, and recurrent costs; and (4) conclusions and recommendations of the work program.
The details of the investment costs included in the work programs would be clearly identified. The PIU
would review and consolidate the WPs received from the velayet (and etraps) through the MOH and
MWR CCs. The PIU would be responsible for submitting the consolidated report on WPs and budgets
to the Ministry of Finance for inclusion in the national budget to ensure that appropriate allocations are
made for the financing of the share of project recurrent costs that is the responsibility of the
velayat/etraps.  The WPs would be submitted to the Bank for review and comments at the same time
they are submitted to the PIU. The Bank would review the WP report and make comments and
suggestions as appropriate. The consolidated WP would form the basis for the implementation of project
activities in any given year.
4.12   Quarterly Progress Reports.  Quarterly progress reports must be prepared by the PIU  and
presented to the Bank and the PCC. The first report would be issued three months after Loan
Effectiveness. The reports would include: (1) a summary of project activities by component; (2) a
description of the main achievements against agreed implementation targets and disbursement schedules,
and the problems encountered; (3) recommendations on how to solve problems and comments on progress
in implementing previous recommendations; (4) a description of component activities; (5) a presentation
of the financial situation of the project in terms of actual versus budget for the major expenditure
categories and the financing of these categories; and (6) a presentation of the financial situation of each
component. Each implementing ministry would prepare an annual implementation progress report by
February 15, 1998 and by the same date each subsequent year, which would then be made available to
the Bank through the PIU. The quarterly and annual reports would be prepared by the CCs in each
implementing agency. The reports would be prepared for each etrap, including the etrap city and the
kolkhos, and would include a summary describing the major achievements and problems. These reports
would be consolidated by the CCs before being submitted to the PIU for final clearance. The reports
cleared by the PIU would be forwarded to the Bank. Assurances were obtained during the Loan
Negotiations that, within one month from the end of each quarter, each implementing ministry would
prepare such quarterly reports.



Page 30                                      Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
4.13   Mid-Term Review. At the time of the estimated mid-point completion of the project, the
Borrower would be required to undertake a mid-term review of the implementation of the project. This
review would be undertaken in consultation with, and in a manner satisfactory to, the Bank. By March
31, 2000, the Borrower would prepare and furnish to the Bank a report regarding the results of the mid-
term review, including progress achieved in the implementation of the project and measures recommended
to ensure the achievement of the project's operational and development objectives during the remainder
of the project life.  By July 31, 2000, the Borrower shall review this report with the Bank.
D. Project Monitoring
4.14   Project Monitoring. Project Monitoring would be carried out in five main areas: (1) the
procurement and physical delivery of goods; (2) the physical implementation of project activities; (3) the
impact on service delivery; (4) the financial management and control of project funds; and (5) the
capacity building under the project. A continuous assessment of these activities would be carried out
under the context of the Project Implementation Plan described in Annex J, and, more specifically, the
annual work programs. Project implementation programs and the effective utilization of project resources
would be monitored through well defined Performance Monitoring Indicators similar to those listed in
Annex 0.
E. Bank Supervision
4.15   Bank Supervision. Intensive supervision by the Bank would be required for the first year
following Loan Effectiveness, principally because the implementing agencies and other responsible
government agencies lack experience, not only with the Bank, but also with project management and
procurement methods. Initially, supervision would focus on project management, procurement, project
financing, Bank disbursement procedures, and methods of payment and reporting. In the second year,
attention would focus on the institutional and financial aspects of the project. The Supervision Plan in
Annex N estimates a requirement of 37 staff weeks for the first year of the project (PYI), spread over
three missions, and 72 staff weeks for eight additional supervision missions, two missions for each
subsequent year. The Bank's Liaison Officer would participate in important meetings during missions
and would facilitate day-to-day communications with the PIU. The Performance Monitoring Indicators
(Annex 0) would be used for measuring progress in project implementation by the Bank's supervision
missions. Electronic mail would be installed at the PIU to facilitate communication with the Bank in
Washington.
F. Procurement
4.16   Summary of Procurement Procedures. The Project Implementation Unit would be responsible
for managing procurement for overall project management and coordination. Specialized Procurement
Consultants would assist the PIU in development of technical specifications. Procurement of civil works,
goods and services would be in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and Revised January and August 1996 and "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" dated
August 1981. Standard Bidding Documents and Form of Contracts issued by the Bank would be used as
appropriate for the Civil Works, Goods and Services to be procuired. Both works and goods would be
grouped in the most efficient manner possible and the proposed packaging would be reviewed by the



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                    Page 31
Bank. Table 4.1 summarizes the proposed procurement arrangements. Detailed procurement arrangements
indicating the number of procurement packages, their value and method is presented in Annex P.
4.17   Procurement of Civil Works (US$24.8 million). Civil works are for the rehabilitation and
upgrading of facilities (7 etrap centers and 9 collective farms) as well as sanitation facilities and testing
laboratories in the eight etrap centers. The contractor will supply all necessary equipment. The following
methods of procurement would be followed:
(a)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for contracts
estimated to cost more than US$ 300,000. Approximately $24.0 million will be procured
under international competitive bidding. The Government will contribute approximately
US$2.5 million. Given the size of the contract, the contract will be based upon unit costs
and the contractor will supply all necessary goods. Given the size of the contract and the
complexity of works, prequalification will be required.
(b)    Procurement of Small Works procedures would be used for contracts estimated to cost
less than US$ 50,000. Approximately $0.5 million for small scale civil works (pit
latrines) will be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The Borrower shall use bidding documents developed in the ECA region. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, and relevant drawings where applicable. Short letters of
invitation and a brief standard form of contract will be developed and reviewed and
accepted by the Bank (sample invitation and contract will be included in the PIM). The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the
contract.
4.18   Procurement of Goods (US$2.6 million) consisting of water supply and sanitation equipment and
related supplies, furniture, and vehicles would be grouped to the extent practical to encourage competitive
bidding. The following methods of procurement would be followed:
(a)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for goods estimated
to cost US$0.8 million related to contracts estimated to cost more than US$300,000
equivalent each;
(b)    International Shopping procedures (IS) would be used for the procurement of goods
that cannot be grouped in packages above US$300,000. Quotations from at least three
suppliers from at least two different eligible countries would be required for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$300,000 and more than US$50,000. An aggregate limit
of US$1.5 million worth of goods would be procured through IS; and,
(c)    National Shopping (NS) procedures for contracts up to US$50,000 each would be used
for locally available, off-the-shelf equipment and furniture items of small value and
standard specifications up to an aggregate amount of US$0.3 million; three quotations
would be required.



Page 32                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect
4.19   Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods. For contracts for goods, to be awarded on
the basis of ICB, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 15% or the amount of applicable
customs duties, whichever is lower, to qualified domestic manufacturers of goods in accordance with
World Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995 and Revised January and August 1996).
4.20   Procurement of Consulting Services (US$4.7 million). Specialists and/or consulting firms
financed under the Project would be hired in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" dated August., 1981.
Consultants will be sought for the sanitation and health component ($1.7 million), the institutional
strengthening component ($1.7 million), and project management ($1 .3 million - of which $0.3 is technical
assistance under the PPF). Most of the consultants contracts shall be awarded on the basis of shortlist of
firms.
4.21   Training (US$0.4 million). For local and overseas training and study tours financed under the
Project, the qualifications of candidates along with their course of study, and proposed training institutions
and costs, and in-country local training courses would be subject to prior review and approval by the
Bank. Candidates would be selected on the basis of established criteria, to be agreed upon with the Bank
as part of the annual reviews.
4.22   Operating Costs (US$1.2 million) will comprise sanitation facilities maintenance, PIU staff
salaries, utilities, office rent and office operating costs including supplies and equipment. The Bank will
finance 28% of operating costs and the Government will finance 72% of operating costs over the life of
the Project.
4.23   Notification of Business Opportunities. A General Procurement Notice was published in the
February 16, 1997 edition of the UN publication Development Butsiness and, as appropriate, would be
updated and published annually thereafter.  For goods to be obtained by ICB, individual bidding
opportunities would be advertised in Development Business and in a major local newspaper 30 days prior
to availability of bidding documents and transmitted to potential bidders who expressed interest in bidding
in response to the published General Procurement Notice. The local advertisement procedure would be
repeated for all bidding packages utilizing ICB. These advertisements would be in the English language.
4.24   Project Preparation Facility (PPF). PPF P-3120-TM  in the amount of US$0.43 million was
signed on November 4, 1996 to help finance the establishment of the PIU. Work includes consulting
services to the PIU for the preparation of procurement arrangements. Study tours, local training and a
limited amount of equipment and supplies are also eligible expenses. Procurement of consultants will
follow Bank Guidelines.
4.25   Prior Review By the Bank of Procurement Decisions. The documentation for all procurement
transactions not subject to prior review by the Bank would be subject to ex-post review during the Bank's
periodic project supervision missions. To ensure compliance with the World Bank's Procurement
Guidelines, the following procurement actions would be subject to prior Bank review: (a) with respect to
each contract under international competitive bidding for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or more; (b) the first two contracts for small works awarded under procurement of small
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more; and (c) for the first three contracts for goods
awarded under international shopping, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to
the Guidelines shall apply. The PIM prepared by the PIU (para 4.5) will be submitted to the Bank for
prior review.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect                                                                 Page 33
Table 4.1: Detailed Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million)
Procurement Method
In- ...tiol C-nmp-Nti .1i ...I Co.pel,i.  Other    Not Bank          Total Cost
Riddi..               Biddi.n                 Financed
1. Works
1.1 Rehabilitation                  23.13                             1.64'                            24.77
(20.85)                           (1.50)                           (22.35)
2. Goods
2.1   Equipment                                                       1 .03"'                            1.03
(1.03)                            (1.03)
2.2   Vehicles                                                        0.33G'                            0.33
(0.33)                            (0.33)
2.3  Supplies                        0.83                             0.23"'                            1.06
(0.83)                           (0.23)                            (1.06)
3. Consultant Services
3.1 Technical Assistance                                              4.40'                             4.40
(4.40)                            (4.40)
3.2 Training                                                          0.43"                             0.43
(0.30)                            (0.30)
4. Operating Costs                                                    1.249'                             1.24
(0.40)                            (0.40)
5. PPF                                                                0.43h"                            0.43
(0.43)                            (0.43)
Total                   23.96                             9.74                              33.70
(21.68)                           (8.62)                           (30.30)
Figures may not total due to rounding.
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
a/ Includes Sanitation Civil Works $0.46 million to be procured by National Shopping and Construction Supervision Staff $1.1 8 million to be
procured per Guidelines for the use of Consultants, August, 1981.
b/ Includes Water Supply and Sanitation equipment $0.75 million and office equipment $0.28 million to be procured by International Shopping
c/ Vehicles to be procured by Intemational Shopping
d/ Includes furniture of $0.02 million and other supplies of $0.02 million to be procured by National Shopping and Laboratory Furniture $0.13
million and water supply and sanitation supplies $0.06 million to be procured by International Shopping.
e/ Includes Local TA of $0.88 million and Foreign TA of $3.52 million to be procured per Guidelines for the use of Consultants. August, 1981.
f/ Includes workshops/seminars $0.29 million and study tours $0.14 million to be procured per Guidelines for the use of Consultants, August,
1981.
g/ Includes office rent to be financed by the government $0.79 million; PIU personnel salaries after effectiveness $0.25 million procured per
Guidelines for the use ofConsultants, August, 1981; and office operation. maintenance and conimunication costs $0.08 million and miscellaneous
expenses $0.12 million to be procured by National Shopping.
h/ Includes phase I of PIU consulting contract $350.000; local consultants $35,000: office equipment (National Shopping) $30,000; training
$10,000; and recurrent costs $5,000.



Page 34                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(a)    Civil Works: Civil works (including repairs to existing facilities and installation of equipment)
shall be procured using the Standard Bidding Documents, Procurement of Works, January, 1995. All
prequalifications, bidding documents, evaluation reports, awards and contracts will be subject to prior
Bank review. For the sanitation rehabilitations (pit latrines) the PIU will use a simplified version of the
standard bidding documents, developed by ECA region, which would be based on a simplified bill of
quantities including, inter alia, the method of payment and a form of contract. The PIU would be
responsible for the evaluation and recommendation of award of contracts. Technical verification of the
work carried out would also be the responsibility of the PIU in cooperation with the MOH. Prior to award
the Bank would review the first two rehabilitation contracts for works on sanitation facilities (see para 4.25
above) and monitor other awards and works on a selective basis during project supervision.
(b)    Goods: In general, pre-identified master lists of goods, indicating grouping, along with estimates
of cost and proposed method of procurement would be pre-reviewed by the Bank. Items would be
grouped to the extent practical to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Bidding
documents, evaluations and recommendations of awards for goods procured under ICB and first two
contracts under IS would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
(c)    Consultants: The selection of consultant firms and individuals would be in accordance with the
World Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August, 1981). Terms of Reference for all consulting
assignments would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Terms and conditions of contracts for all
technical assistance assignments, invitation packages and evaluation reports of assignments costing more
than US$100,000 each for firms, and US$50,000 each for individual consultants would be subject to prior
review by the Bank.
4.26   After award, should any material modifications or waiver of the terms and conditions of a contract
result in an increase above 15% of the original price, the Bank would reserve the right of prior review
of such modifications (included would be modifications in contracts for consulting services).
4.27   General Review: The Bank would monitor procurement activities, contract management, and
project record-keeping during supervision missions. The Bank would undertake a focussed project launch
workshop in July, 1997 and a comprehensive mid-term review of project progress; both activities would
place special emphasis on implementation including procurement matters.
4.28   Procurement Monitoring and Reporting. The PIU would be responsible for establishing and
maintaining a computerized procurement monitoring and reporting system acceptable to the Bank. Status
reports from this system would accompany the PIU's regular quarterly project progress reports sent to the
Bank.
4.29   Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). There are no plans for a Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Turkmenistan. A quick review will be done under the public
procurement reform initiative under a recently approved IDF grant which is expected to be implemented
during 1997. In general experience with competitive bidding is limited and close supervision by the Bank
and the consultants will be exercised.
G. Disbursements
4.30   Schedule. The proposed Loan would be disbursed over about six years which includes six months
for the finalization of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications and other reports. No standard



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                            Page 35
Chart 4.1 Annual and Cumulative Disbursements (World Bank Fiscal
Years)
14                                                             35
12                                                             30
C10                                                             25 
0 
8                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20  c~Annual
6 6                                                               15 E    --Cumulatihe
w  4                                                              10 n)
02                                                      E7      5   1
0                                                             0
FY98     FY99      FYOO      FYO1      FY02      FY03
Bank Fiscal Years
disbursement profile exists for Turkmenistan. The Project is expected to be completed by August, 2003
with a Loan Closing Date of February, 2004.
4.31    Disbursement Percentages.The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed as shown in Table 4.2:
Table 4.2 Proceeds of the Loan
Amount         Percentage of Expenditures to
Category                                         (US $ millions)             be Financed
I. Works                                              19.00        90%
2. Goods                                               2.40         100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory costs), and 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Consultants"'                                       4.40        100%
4. Training                                            0.30        100%
5. Operating Costs                                     0.40        100%
6. Re-financing of PPF                                 0.43        Amount due pursuant to Section
2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement
7. Unallocated                                         3.37
Total                                       30.30
a/ Includes Foreign Technical Assistance ($3.52m) and Local Technical Assistance ($0.88m).



Page 36                                      Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project
Table 4.3: Annual and Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Bank Fiscal Year    FY98      FY99       FY00    FY01    FY02   FY03
Annual               2.0        5.0       8.0       8.0      5.0     2.3
Cumulative           2.0        7.0       15.0     23.0    28.0    30.3
4.32   The standard disbursement profile for water supply and sanitation project requires approximately
32 quarters or 8 years to disburse a Loan. However, since the only major contract which will be
executed is for four years, the disbursement forecast is based on the ECA disbursements profile. Annex
Q shows a detailed disbursement forecast of the Loan. Funds disbursed under the PPF would be repaid
from the proposed Loan Funds after effectiveness. A six year period is shown above as it is expected
that the Loan will become effective in the first quarter of FY98. The last year of disbursement anticipates
final disbursements in mid-FY03. The Project's administrative arrangements are already in place and
operating under the PPF. Procurement actions for civil works have been prepared under the PPF and
would be ready to initiate upon Loan effectiveness. The disbursement schedule in Table 4.3 allows for
some lag time in actual disbursements to account for normal delays in preparation and presentation of
documentation.
4.33   Statements of Expenditure. Reimbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for expenditures relating to (1) contracts for goods valued at less than US$ 300,000
equivalent each with the exception of the first three contracts for goods, awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures, and (2) contracts for works individually valued at less than US$
50,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first two contracts for small works costing the equivalent
of $20,000 or more. The documentation to support these expenditures would be retained by the PIU,
the MOH, and the Dashkhovuz Velayat for the respective project activities for at least one year after
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This
documentation would be made available for review by the external auditors and Bank supervision
missions. Disbursements for all other items would be made against full documentation and in accordance
with procurement guidelines. Supervision missions would review documentation retained by the borrower
in the field. If ineligible expenditures are presented, including those that are not justified by the evidence
furnished, or amounts in excess of agreed disbursement percentages as financed from the Special Account
(described in paragraph 4.36), the Bank would have the right to withhold further deposits in the Special
Account. The Bank may exercise this right until the Borrower has: (1) refunded the amounts involved,
or (b) if the Bank agrees, submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that the Bank can use to offset
the ineligible amounts. The minimum application size for payment directly from the Loan Account or for
issuance of Special Commitments is 20% of the current Special Account authorized allocation.
4.34   Certification of Statements of Expenditures. The etrap accountant would submit SOEs to the
CCs for presentation to the Chief Accountant at the Dashkhovuz Velayat Administration. The latter
would consolidate the SOEs from the etraps and have them certified by the Hakim of the Etrap
Administration before they are forwarded to the Hakim of Dashkhovuz Velayat for transmission to the
PIU. The PIU would provide the official certification for the Bank when requesting the replenishment
of the Special Account.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                    Page 37
4.35   Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower has opened under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in the Central Bank in Ashgabat.
During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would be limited to US$
200,000. However, when the aggregate disbursement under the Loan have reached the level of US$ 3.0
million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$ 500.000 by
submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at
least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting documents.
4.36   Administration of the Special Account. The Special Account has been established in the name
of the Borrower and would be administered by authorized staff of the PIU.
4.37   Requirements of the Bank for Local Banking Capacity. The pre-appraisal mission confirmed
that the Central Bank is capable of meeting the requirements of the Bank with respect to operating and
maintaining the SA. The Central Bank (1) is financially sound as demonstrated by its latest accounts, as
audited by an internationally recognized auditing firm; (2) has a significant foreign correspondence
network covering all major currencies; (3) has reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of
credit, for making direct foreign payments and other international transactions with appropriate
arrangements for the training and development of its staff; (4) is capable of performing a wide range of
local banking services, including cash payments, transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit
notes, application of conversion rates from foreign currencies, and maintenance of adequate accounts for
the SA; (5) is a member of Swift and uses or plans to use this facility to expedite payment transfers; (6)
is willing to issue a Comfort Letter to assure the amounts deposited in the SA would not be set off or
otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to the Bank by the Borrower; (7) is willing to
maintain adequate accounts as required by the Bank and to provide to the Bank monthly bank statements
and any other information considered necessary by the Bank (copies of all transactions would be routinely
submitted to the implementing agencies); and (8) is willing to charge reasonable rates for its services and
pay reasonable interest on balances held from time to time.
H. Project Accounts, Budgets and Audits
4.38   Project Accounts and Budgets. Financing of project activities would proceed through a Project
Account (PA) to be opened by the PIU, through which project funds would be channeled.
4.39   Accounts and Audits. The Borrower would be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the
funds provided by the Bank under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that
audits of the financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. The project accountant in the PIU
would maintain consolidated accounts for the Project and would prepare quarterly financial reports. The
accounts would be maintained for all project funds, i.e. Loan funds and local contribution.
4.40   All project records and accounts, including those for the SOEs, the SA, and PA would be audited
annually in accordance with the "World Bank Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank," (March 1982). An international auditing firm would be appointed to
perform project audits. The Bank would be provided within six months of the end of each fiscal year
with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate
opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified statement of expenditures.



Page 38                                         Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Scope of Analysis
5.1    Introduction. This chapter summarizes the results of the financial and economic analysis of the
project, which is presented in Annex R. The analysis is divided into four sections: financial analysis;
fiscal impact and cost recovery; economic analysis; and affordability. These analyses are limited to the
water supply component, which represents about 70% of the basic project cost. For the purposes of this
analysis, the water supply project is desegregated into the component for upgrading water supply in the
seven etrap cities and that for the nine collective farms selected for the project. The analysis considers
these two groups of beneficiaries separately.
5.2    With and Without Project Scenarios. The analyses in Annex R are based on a comparison of
"with project" and "without project" scenarios for the costs and revenues of the water supply services
in the two groups of beneficiaries. The "without project" scenario supposes that existing inefficiencies
would continue. The summary of Annex R in this chapter only discusses the "with project" situation.
B. Financial Analysis
5.3    System  Inefficiency and the Current Cost of Delivered Water.  All aspects of the water
systems are in very poor condition. In the existing water systems in the etrap cities and kolkhoses to be
included in the project, only about 20% of the water produced is utilized by the customers. The water
estimated to be currently delivered to consumers amounts to only 12 liters per capita per day (Ipcd). The
resulting operational cost per cubic meter (CM) delivered to customers is $0.59 in the etrap cities and
$1.03 in the kolkhoses.
5.4    Inefficient Use of Electricity. The systems use electricity very inefficiently. In the etrap cities,
a reported 1.43 KWH are used for every cubic meter of water produced. In efficient systems, electricity
use is in the order of 0.4 KWH/CM. This inefficiency does not result in a financial burden to the water
utilities because the electricity price is heavily subsidized. However, the real economic cost of these
wasted resources is considerable.
5.5    Financial Analysis of Improvements for the Etrap Cities. With the completion of the proposed
improvements for the etrap cities, delivery of water to customers is expected to rise by a factor of 4.5
to about 2.9 million m3/year by the year 2000. By the year 2017, consumption is expected to reach about
6.6 million m3/year. However, operating costs are expected to be reduced by 7% between 1997-2000,
in spite of the nearly six-fold increase of the volume of water delivered to clients. The average tariff
necessary fully to cover the total financial costs of the system, or "full cost tariff" is estimated at US$
0.42 per cubic meter. This is a relatively high rate, largely because of the small size of the etrap cities,
which makes economies of scale elusive in both production and distribution systems. The cost of water
is also affected by the high estimated capital costs expected because of difficulties of attracting contractors
to execute projects in Turkmenistan. A tariff sufficient to cover the full cost of operations and
maintenance ("O&M Tariff") is US$ 0.14 per cubic meter. This is much lower than the full cost tariff,
once more pointing out the disproportionate weight of capital costs compared to O&M costs, in the full
cost tariff.
5.6    Consideration of Least Cost Alternatives. The proposed plan represents the least-cost solution
for improving water supply in the seven etrap cities. All other possible plans would still require the



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect                                        Page 39
improvements to the disinfection, storage, transmission, distribution and delivery components of the
project, which represent about 90% of the total capital cost of the improvements. Any other alternative
to the proposed supply of water by improving the existing well system would be more costly by a factor
ranging from the hundreds to the thousands. The proposed principal means of delivery is by street
faucets, which is also less expensive than providing yard taps or direct house connections.
5.7    Financial Analysis of Improvements for the Collective Farms. With the completion of the
proposed improvements for the nine collective farms, piped water would be delivered to a total of 82,000
people compared to the 20,000 now served. The volume of water expected to be delivered to users
would be about 1.6 million m3/year in the year 2000. By the year 2017 annual consumption is expected
to reach about 4.0 million m3/year. The "full cost tariff" for the collective farms is US $0.74 per cubic
meter. The cost of water is higher than that for the etrap cities because of the lower density of the
populations. The tariff needed to cover operations and maintenance ("O&M Tariff") for the kolkhos
component of the project is US$ 0.16 per cubic meter, the same figure reported for the etrap cities.
Again, the differences between the two projects' costs lie in their capital cost requirements, not in unit
operating costs. As with the etrap cities, the proposed plan represents the least-cost solution for improving
water supply in the nine collective farms.
C. Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
5.8    Fiscal Impact. The fiscal impact of the project would depend on the cost recovery mechanisms
adopted. If the government applies a full cost tariff the fiscal impact of the project would be zero for the
government. (Potential impact on users is discussed in the section on Affordability.) That is, the users
would bear the entire burden of the project costs. If an O&M tariff is applied, the net present value of
the implicit subsidy (the cost of repaying the loan) for the etrap cities would be US $6.4 million over the
life of the project. For the collective farms, it would be US $7.26 million.
5.9 Cost Recovery.  The institutional strengthening component of the project would support the
government in analyzing options for cost recovery, and reaching a decision on which option is most
suitable for Turkmenistan at this stage. The following cost recovery options could be considered: (a)
a flat rate user fee (or tax) for all beneficiaries; (b) user fees differentiated between households with and
without yard taps; and (c) a program to introduce metering for households with yard taps. In the initial
stage, a metering program is not recommended because of the cost and organizational complexity of this
basis for a tariff system.
D. Economic Analysis
5.10   Types of Benefits Estimated. The analysis concentrates on the private benefits to be derived
from increased water delivered, improved water quality, and improved reliability of the water supply.
No attempt is made to quantify possible externalities such as health benefits and increased output due to
a healthier population. The analysis is based on an estimate of the increase in consumer surplus to be
derived by households as a result of the reduction in the time they spend carrying water and as a result
of the increase in their future consumption of water, due to the improved supply. For each type of
consumer, the average welfare gain was calculated per cubic meter of water consumed .
5.11   Estimate of Benefits. Separate estimates were made for the gains in welfare from improved
water supplies for the users of street faucets, yard taps and direct household connections. In each case,
a linear demand curve was estimated, based on the average amount of time spent per household at present



Page 40                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
carrying water, and the average volume carried; the estimated average consumption of unrationed
households facing a zero marginal price for water with, respectively: a household connection; a yard tap;
and a street faucet. The analysis reports an economic internal rate of return of 22.2 % for the etrap cities
project component and 10.6% for the collective farm project component. The latter is below that of the
etrap city project component because of the higher unit costs of production.
5.12   Sensitivity Analysis. The results of the financial and economic analysis did not vary significantly
throughout the probable range of values of the main independent variables.
E. Affordability
5.13   Income and Impact of User Fees. According to the government statistical agency, Goskomstat,
the average household monthly disposable income in Dashkhovuz Velayet in 1995 was 13,600 manats,
or about $68 per month. The dollar equivalent, however, was based on the then rate of exchange of 200
manats per dollar, but the current rate (September 1996) is about 4,800 manats per dollar. Incomes
certainly have not kept pace with this difference in dollar exchange rates, so the $68 per month income
is not considered realistic in comparisons with late 1996 equivalent dollar income levels. According to
the Bank's Social Assessment, average household income was under $30 per month in November 1995.
It is likely that the very rapid depreciation of the exchange rate during 1996 has resulted in a further
reduction in the dollar value of household incomes, perhaps to about $20 per month. A tariff sufficient
to cover operations and maintenance costs for a household consuming 9 cubic meters per month (which
represents a consumption level of about 50 lpcd) would be $1.35. This represents 4.5 % of an income
of $30/month and 6.8% of an income level of $20/month. These levels are not far removed from the
rule of thumb indicator that spending about 5-6% of household income on water is generally considered
affordable.
5.14   Other Factors Affecting Incomes and Impacts of User Fees. As a first step, it is proposed that
water charges be levied only against those with yard taps or direct connections to houses and buildings.
Households with yard taps appear to be more prosperous than families that must depend on street faucets
or wells for their water, and logic supports that conclusion. Accordingly, the impact on the yard-tap
households of fees in the order of those described above may be considerably less than indicated. In
addition, with electricity, health and other typical costs either free or highly subsidized, households should
be able to spend a higher portion of their disposable income for water than households that must pay the
full burden of the benefits currently being provided by the government of Turkmenistan.
5.15   Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and Household Income. The proportion of GDP received as
household disposable incomes is very low. The official data for household income imply a per capita
annual disposable income which is about 20% of per capita GDP. It appears that most of the GDP is
retained by the public sector and is used to finance state-controlled investments and to subsidize the
provision of some food items and free public services (including electricity, gas and water). This in turn
reflects the slow progress on economic reform and privatization registered since independence. In cases
where the state retains some 80% of GDP and households dispose of only 20%, there is likely to be
resistance to paying for public services.
5.16   Share of GDP Relative to Affordability of Water. In this context, the issue of the affordability
of water assumes a much broader significance. Policy dialogue with the authorities would emphasize the
potential efficiency gains to be had from linking the incomes of the bodies responsible for producing
services to their delivery. The dialogue would also emphasize that the result of privatization would be



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                      Page 41
to increase the proportion of total income received by private individuals and lower the proportion
received by the state. While these issues clearly go well beyond the water sector, in the interim, the
institutional strengthening component of the project should also aim to show that even with the collection
of a limited user fee sufficient to contribute to pay for operation and maintenance costs, the efficiency
of the system's operation can be greatly increased, compared with systems which depend on state budget
allowances for all their operating revenues.



Page 42                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.1 Direct Benefits. The direct benefits of the project would be to provide a safe, reliable water supply
to 108,000 people in the seven etrap cities and to 82,000 in 47 villages in nine collective farms. 62,000
people in these collective farms would be receiving water from a piped system for the first time. Other
direct beneficiaries would be the children in 35 schools in the nine collective farms and people who attend
the markets in the seven etrap cities that would be provided with new latrines as part of a demonstration
project.
6.2 Indirect Benefits. The people of Dashkhovuz would benefit from improvements to the Dashkhovuz
Center of Health and the health and hygiene education programs to be funded by the project. They would
also benefit from improvements to enhance the capabilities of the Dashkhovuz office of the MOH/SES
in such areas as water quality monitoring, and sanitation and hygiene surveillance. The country and the
velayet would benefit from the demonstration of how to improve water and sanitation services, and be
able to apply these lessons to serve the remaining people outside the project area. Both nationally and
regionally, the project would strengthen the water and sanitation sector through reconmmendations for
reorganization and internal strengthening of the Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Sanitation Authority.
Finally, the country would benefit from the skills acquired in the management of large development
projects through the establishment of the project implementation unit.
B. Risks
6.3 Categories of Risks. The various categories of risks include (a) the willingness of the national
government to commnit itself to sector reform, including adoption of recommendations for institutional
reorganization and strengthening, and of a policy of cost recovery for the provision of sector services,
(b) completion of the project facilities on time and within budget, (c) the establishment of a water and
sanitation sector utility in Dashkhovuz capable of operating and maintaining the facilities for which they
are responsible, and (d) the success of changing water users attitudes toward conservation of water and
willingness to pay for the improved services being provided.
6.4 Consequences of Risks. Failure to overcome one or two of these risks would threaten the success
of the project. Should three or four of these risks occur, the project would almost certainly fail. The
project has several safeguards to mitigate these risks. Dialogue between the government and the Bank
is ongoing to encourage the government's commitment to sector reform, and the loan agreement
incorporates specific actions to be accomplished to affirm this commitment. Strong project management,
which would include a blend of knowledgeable local expertise with the support of experience foreign
consultants, would be in place at the start of the project. Technicai assistance would be provided to
assist the government in implementing needed reforms and in strengthening the capability of the regional
water and sanitation sector organizations in carrying out their responsibilities. This support would be
made available to both the utility providing the services and the organization responsible for ensuring that
the services provided meet the government's quality standards. Finally, the project would incorporate
public education programs to encourage improved water and sanitation practices.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                   Page 43
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
7.1 At negotiations, the Government:
(a)   Confirmed that Presidential Decree No. 3006 had been issued (February 4, 1997, Annex A-
2). The Decree indicates that once the Water Supply and Sanitation Project's water supply systems
become operational, water charges will be imposed on beneficiaries towards full cost recovery of
operation and maintenance expenses. The Decree further confirms that the Government will
establish a Dashkhovuz Regional Water Supply and Sanitation Authority no later than December,
1998.
(b)   Confirmed that the Director of Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been appointed and
has submitted to the Bank a list of candidates for the economist/planning specialist;
accountant/disbursement specialist; and health specialist for Bank review.
(c)   Confirmed that the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has been established and the
Component Coordinators (CCs) have been appointed.
(d)   Confirmed that the import of equipment and materials is exempted from custom duties and
taxes.
(e)   Agreed that the project would be implemented with reliance on annual work programs and
budgets (WP) with the first WP to cover the period July-December, 1997. The PIU would
consolidate the etrap and velayet level annual WP into one WP and would submit the WP to the
Bank and the Government by October 31 of each subsequent Project year to coincide with the
normal Government budget cycle.
(f)   Agreed that within one month from the end of each quarter each implementing ministry would
prepare quarterly reports for submission to the Bank through the PIU
(g)   Agreed that by March 31, 2000, the Borrower would prepare, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, a mid-term review report integrating the results
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed, the progress achieved in carrying out of the
Project during the period preceding the date of the said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof during the period following such date and that by July 31, 2000 the Borrower shall review
with the Bank said report.
(h)   Agreed that the PIU will be maintained throughout the project implementation period with
staffing, funds, facilities, and other resources in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(i)   Agreed that the PCC, CCs and Regional Component Coordinator will be maintained with
resources and under Terms of Reference (TOR) satisfactory to the Bank until completion of the
Project.
(j)   Agreed to adopt the Project Implementation Manual (the draft of which is a condition of Loan



Page 44                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Effectiveness) by December 31, 1997.
(k)   Agreed to employ by December 31, 1997, consultants with experience and TOR satisfactory
to the Bank to prepare the National Sector Reform Study under the project.
(1)   Agreed to prepare and discuss with the Bank the National Sector Reform Study by December
31, 1998, and prepare an Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank.
(m)  Agreed to prepare and discuss with the Bank by June 30, 1998, the draft legal instrument for
the establishment of the Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Sanitation Authority.
(n)   Agreed to establish and begin operation of the Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Sanitation
Authority no later than December 31, 1998.
(o)   Agreed to maintain in manat the Project Account for its counterpart contribution to the
financing of the project in a commercial Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and
replenish said account by depositing additional amounts equivalent to: (i) $300,000 on July 1, 1998;
(ii) $600,000 on July 1, 1999; (iii) $600,000 on July 1. 2000; (iv) $600,000 on July 1, 2001; and
(v) $312,000 on July 1, 2002.
(p)   Agreed that the Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Sanitation Authority will begin to charge
tariffs for water supply services provided under the project's new water supply systems in each
participating etrap when the new systems become operational.
(q)   Agreed to the performance monitoring indicators of the proposed project (Annex 0).
(r)   Agreed that Disbursements for operating costs shall not exceed $80,000 equivalent during any
calendar year during the period of project implementation.
7.2 Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be:
(a)   The Borrower has employed consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the PIU in carrying out the activities under the Project.
(b)   That the Borrower has submitted a draft Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to the
Bank.
(c)   That the Borrower has opened a Project Account in a Commercial Bank acceptable to the
Bank and has deposited $200,000 equivalent in the Account.
B. Recommendation
7.3 Subject to these agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank Loan
of US$ 30.3 million.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                      Page 45
ANNEX A: PRESIDENTIAL DECREE AND POLICY LETTER
ANNEX A-1: POLICY LETTER
December 5, 1996
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. President:
The Government of Turkmenistan is negotiating with the World Bank a loan in support of a water
supply and sanitation project designed to improve the living conditions of the population living in the area of
Turkmenistan most severely impacted by the Aral Sea disaster.
Despite its desert climate, Turkmenistan has a long history of agriculture and settlement and thus the
provision of water in adequate supply and good quality has been a major concern from the time of our
ancestors until the present day. Large irrigation systems of the country most notably the 1400 km Kara Kum
Canal are indicative of this objective. The negative environmental impacts which Turkmenistan is now
experiencing as a result of the Aral Sea Basin degradation, have challenged our ability to provide adequate and
safe drinking water. Therefore, the Government of Turkmenistan has decided to implement a potable water
supply and sanitation project in the Aral Sea disaster zone of Turkmenistan, Dashkhovuz Velayet.
The Government finds it necessary to increase water supply coverage and water quality and to ensure
sustainability of the systems servicing our people living in small towns and collective farms. We intend to
maximize the health benefits associated with improved water supplies by integrating water, sanitation and
hygiene education interventions. The Government intends to advance the development of the water and
sanitation sector through achieving the following objectives:
Increased access to potable water and improved sanitation facilities in particular those groups living
in the most disadvantaged areas
Development of the institutions in charge of production and distribution of potable water and sanitation
services and improvement of their technical and financial capacities
Protection of the environment and of public health
Protection of water resources and their optimum utilization
With regard to the proposed project, our principal goals in their regional context can be summarized
as follows:
Restructuring of the institutions charged with the delivery of water and sanitation services by creating
a regional specialized water and wastewater authority for Dashkhovuz Velayet



Page 46                                         Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Increasing the responsibility and accountability of the management of the water sector
Initiation of cost recovery mechanisms including a tariff setting policy whereby revenues would cover
the full cost of operation, variations in working capital requirements and regular preventive maintenance.
In order to achieve these goals, we commit ourselves to the following:
Institutional Restructurinp Program
The Government is prepared to establish a specialized Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Wastewater
Authority by merging the responsibilities of the numerous organizations currently responsible for parts of the
sector delivery system. Our ultimate goal is to put into place a system whereby the water utilities would be
independent and operate in a transparent system of regulation and control.
Tariff Policy
Initiating the Project the Government of Turkmenistan is aware that one of the requirements regarding
water supply projects supported by the Bank, is implementation of cost-recovery mechanisms.  The
Government of Turkmenistan undertakes to allow for the introduction of charges to beneficiaries of the new
and rehabilitate water systems. While the water supply systems are being constructed, the institutional
mechanisms needed to implement operation and maintenance cost recovery will be established within the newly
formed Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Wastewater Authority. When the newly renovated water supply
systems are operational, we will take all necessary steps to ensure the collection of fees to cover operation and
maintenance costs. We will begin by targeting those beneficiaries who have chosen to receive higher levels
of service, i.e yard standpipes. Furthermore, we shall see to it that the agencies involved in the production and
distribution of this costly water will take all steps necessary so that costs are minimized. The combination of
water pricing and technical improvements to the water supply systems is expected to significantly reduce
wastage of water and lead to increased water conservation efforts.
In closing we would like to mention that the aforementioned institutional reforms are being carried
out on a regional level in order to gain experience. Depending on progress, reforms can be carried out in other
regions of the country with the overriding objective of improving the effectiveness of the sector throughout
the country.
Sincerely,
Mr. Ilaman Shikhiev
Deputy Head of Government
Cabinet of Ministers
Turkmenistan



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect                                  Page 47
ANNEX A-2: PRESIDENTIAL DECREE
President of Turkmenistan
Decree No. 3006 of February 4, 1997
Water Supply and Sanitation Improvement in the Dashkhovuz Velayet
In order to improve living standards of the residents of the Dashkhovuz Velayet which suffered severely
from the Aral Sea ecological disaster and in order to improve water supply and sanitation, I hereby decree:
1.    The Loan Agreement prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Turkmenistan on the loan with 20
year maturity including a 5 year grace period to be provided by the International Bank of Reconstruction
and Development for the implementation of the Water Supply and Sanitation Project in the Dashkhovuz
Velayet in the amount of 31 million dollars and to be repaid out of the Government budget shall be
approved.
2.     The Turkmenistan Central Bank shall provide account services for the loan in item I of the
Decree.
3.    The Turkmenistan Government shall assume an unconditional and irrevocable obligation to repay
the loan including accrued interest, commitment charges and insurance premiums.
4.     In 1997 - 2000, the Ministry of Economy and Finance of Turkmenistan shall allocate budget
funds for the implementation of the Water Supply and Sanitation Project in the amount equivalent to 10
percent of the project cost.
5.    The Khyakimlik of the Dashkhovuz Velayet:
- shall create in the city of Dashkhovuz no later than December 1998 the Water and Sanitation
Administration of the Dashkhovuz Velayet which will unite all water supply and sanitation organizations
on the territory of the Velayet; and
- upon the completion of new and reconstructed water systems under the Water Supply and Sanitation
Project, shall jointly with the Ministry of Economy and Finance of Turkmenistan determine procedures
for paying user charges for the use of water of improved quality and begin collecting these fees in order
to achieve full cost recovery for the operation and maintenance of the systems.
Saparmurat Turkmenbashi
President of Turkmenistan



Page 48                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
ANNEX B. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: NEEDS ASSESSMENT
1.    In 1994, the Government of the Republic of Turkmenistan requested World Bank assistance for
improving water supply and sanitation in the velayet of Dashkhovuz, the part of the country most affected
by the Aral Sea crisis. In preparing an investment to respond to this need, the project designers
recognized the importance of ensuring that its objectives and interventions would address the actual needs
of the affected population and would be acceptable to all beneficiaries, especially the poor. As a result,
the World Bank collaborated closely during the early project preparation activities with local experts to
carry out a needs assessment, as part of a broader social assessment.
Country Background
2.     Turkmenistan is the southernmost Republic situated in the Aral Sea basin. About 90 percent of
the country's territory consists of sand deserts characterized by an arid climate with very hot summers and
drastic changes in temperature during the winter. The total population as of January, 1995 was 4.4 million
people of which 45 percent is urban and 55 percent is rural. The infant mortality rate is the highest
among FSU countries (46/1000) and life expectancy is the lowest (66 years).  Agriculture is the
predominant economic activity accounting for 42 percent of employment.
3.     The main source of water for Turkmenistan is the Amu Darya River. Diversion of the Amu Darya
River from its inflow to the Aral Sea for expansion of an irrigated cotton monoculture in the Aral Sea
Basin over 30 years has resulted in severe hydrological and ecological impacts, including ground water
depletion, soil erosion, soil salinization, and ground and surface water pollution.  Located at the
downstream reaches of the river, Turkmenistan is amongst the hardest hit of the Aral Sea Basin countries
by accumulation of contaminants in the river.
4.     The largest of the five administrative regions or provinces of the country ("Velayets") is
Dashkhovuz, located in the lower reaches of the Amu Darya. Dashkhovuz, which is largely a cotton
growing agricultural area, has a population of 907,636 (as of January 1995), of which 70 percent is
classified as rural. The velayet is divided into eight districts (etraps), each of which has a district center,
a small city of 10,000 to 30,000 inhabitants. The velayet capital is Dashkhovuz City, with a population
of 140,000.
5.     Dashkhovuz is characterized by high population growth (two-three percent), and high infant
mortality (55/1000). Of all the velayets in Turkmenistan, Dashkhovuz is the most directly and severely
impacted by the Aral Sea ecological disaster. Environmental degradation, insufficient access to safe
drinking water, poor sanitation practices and poorly functioning health care facilities have contributed to
a substantial increase of respiratory and infectious diseases in the last 15 years, and a general degradation
of public health in the area. Currently, piped water coverage (mostly through public standpipes and yard
pipes) is about 73 percent in urban and 15 percent in rural areas (see Table 4.12). Other water sources
used by the population are tankers, dug wells and boreholes equipped with hand and electric pumps, and
surface water. Water collected from infiltration wells constructed adjacent to the canals is frequently
contaminated and is distributed without treatment. Intermittent supply further adds to this contamination.
Excessive water losses occur as a result of inadequate maintenance of pipe systems at both the household
and community levels. Sanitation coverage is even lower than pipe water coverage, and unhygienic
disposal of human waste is a major contributor to the high incidence of mortality and morbidity.



Turkmenistan: Water SuppIy and Sanitation Project                                        Page 49
Needs Assessment: Objectives and Methodology
6.     The importance of considering the needs of populations either directly or indirectly affected by
a project is increasingly recognized as a general strategy in social development. The basic premise of this
strategy is that interventions should satisfy the needs and priorities as expressed by the project population.
Advocates of the needs approach further maintain that project success is determined by: the involvement
of those it intends to serve in identifying their interests, needs, and priorities; and the extent to which a
project recognizes, accepts, and is responsive to people's expressed needs. Moreover, there is solid
evidence demonstrating that no matter who initiates a project, its sustainability is greatly enhanced when
local needs are addressed and existing social groups and structures are mobilized for implementation.
7.     The overall objectives of the needs assessment for the Turkmenistan Water Supply and Sanitation
Project were to (I) provide baseline information on socio-economic conditions, water supply, hygiene and
sanitation practices in the area for consultants engaged in other preparatory research work for the project,
(2) to help identify suitable locations for planned pilot projects on sanitation methods in schools and for
standpipe repair, and (3) to help identify the most critical interventions to be undertaken immediately to
improve the water supply and sanitation situation in the project area.
8.     The needs assessment was conducted in seven of the eight etraps (districts) of Dashkhovuz velayet
(velayet). The eighth etrap, Turkmenbashi, was excluded because it is receiving US$ three million in
assistance for water supply and sanitation from USAID. In each etrap, data was collected in the etrap
center and in two collective farms. The needs assessment consisted of the following activities:
A community profile study focusing on overall socio-economic conditions in and around the
selected communities. Data for this part of the survey was supplied by local administrative bodies
and management units of collective farms.
*      A household survey, including 790 households from the 7 etrap centers and the 14 collective
farms. Local specialists collected household data on demography, income, housing, economic
activities, problems and needs, water supply, sanitation, and health.
*      A study of water supply and sanitation facilities ("Institutional Analysis"), in schools, health
facilities, and enterprises. A team of ten local scientists collected data in all schools (128) and
health facilities (97) and selected enterprises (74) in the 7 etrap centers and 14 collective farms.
9.     The needs assessment was the first stage of a broader social assessment, which in addition to the
activities mentioned above, also included focus group discussions and a stakeholder seminar.
Main Findings of the Needs Assessment
10.    The needs assessment revealed clearly that the major concern of the population in the project area
is the lack of basic food products. Concerns about the quality of water rank second, and water supply
improvements are considered by many households as a major step towards an improvement of their living
conditions. Hygiene and sanitation related needs are generally not reported to be priorities by the
households included in the sample. However, from the limited amount of informnation that could be
gathered regarding household hygiene and sanitation practices, coupled with observations from the project
identification mission and surveyors, it appears that hygiene and sanitation practices in the project area
are rather unsafe. Although this area warrants more study, improvement measures in this sector, such
as the construction of safe latrines and hand washing facilities are highly recommended.



Page 50                                         Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Socio-economic Information
11.    A household's income in Dashkhovuz typically consists of various components: salaries earned
by working persons, unemployment benefits, extra earnings from participation in the annual cotton harvest,
earnings from the sales of home garden products and privately owned livestock, and income from other
informal activities, including trade. While earnings from unemployment benefits and home produce sales
contribute only to a very small extent to total annual income, income from the sales of livestock
constitutes a substantial share of total annual income for both urban and rural households. Adding
earnings from all sources, rural households actually earn 12 percent more per year than urban families,
who receive, on average, higher salaries. Overall, the assessment revealed the importance of income from
secondary and informal sources to Dashkhovuz households, especially to rural families.
12.   In rural communities based on the collective farmn system, part of annual income is paid in
monthly installments, and the rest is paid as an annual "bonus" at the end of the fiscal year. For many
rural families, this income system results in considerable uncertainty and financial vulnerability. In many
cases, monthly salaries are several months in arrears, resulting in a loss of real income due to inflation.
Also, because of the fluctuating prices for many agricultural goods, especially cotton, it is difficult for
houselholds to forecast the amount they can expect to be paid by the farm management at the end of the
year, and plan their investments accordingly.
13.    Overall, households spent close to 85 percent of their earnings on food, with little difference
between urban and rural areas. The high share of income spent on food by households living in the
surveyed communities is a clear indicator of high food prices and severe and widespread poverty in the
project area.
Water Supply and Water Use
14.    Around 40-45 percent of all interviewed households have access to piped water. This percentage
is much lower for rural households than for urban families (10 percent versus 70 percent). In rural
communities, piped water is available mainly through communal stand pipes, while in etrap centers, most
households receive piped water through yard pipes. Indoor pipe connections are available to only six
percent of urban and one percent of rural families. Wells constitute the second most common source of
drinking water, supplying between 27 and 31 percent of households. The third most common source are
hand pumps, which are used by 20-21 percent of families. Water vendors and surface water sources play
only a minor role as drinking water sources. In rural communities, stand pipes are used by over twice
as many households in summer as in winter. This fact is a result of technical break downs of many rural
pipe systems during the cold period of the year.
15.   In general, households switch from piped water and hand pumps to wells and surface water bodies
to draw water for washing and cleaning. To water their home gardens, households use mainly water from
surface water sources, such as irrigation canals, rivers, and ponds. On the contrary, water for livestock
is in most cases drawn from the same source that supplies households with drinking water. In all etrap
centers, piped water is the main source of water for livestock. Although the measurement of the exact
amount of water consumed by individual households' livestock was beyond the scope of this study, it can
be assumed that livestock water consumption increases the average household's water supply needs
substantially.
16.    Respondents, in general, consider neither the reliability of their drinking water source nor the
quality of their drinking water to be better than barely satisfactory. Hand pumps and wells, the most
common sources of drinking water in rural communities, received slightly higher reliability and water



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                         Page 51
quality ratings than pipe systems and other drinking water sources. While higher reliability ratings for
non-pipe sources are mainly based on better water availability in hours/day compared to pipe systems,
higher quality ratings for water from wells and pumps are most likely based on perceived lower saltiness
of water from these sources, since saltiness is the drinking water feature that most households find the
least desirable. Only 1.3 percent of all respondents are more worried about bacteria or other carriers of
illnesses that may be present in their drinking water source than about other undesirable water features.
17.    Piped water is available for roughly four hours/day to both urban and rural households with pipe
water access. In comparison, administrative bodies claim that pipe water is supplied for five-seven
hours/day. This shows either the unreliability of official data on water supply issues or the unawareness
of water agencies that real water availability is curtailed by substantial water losses in the system.
Furthernore, less than half of the respondents reported to have received pipe water every day in the last
month. Both figures indicate clearly the unreliability and intermittency of piped water supply in the
project area. To increase water availability, all families included in the survey and with access to a pipe
water system have water storage facilities, with an average storage capacity of 2m3.
18.    An indoor pipe connection, combined with a waste water facility, is for the majority of households
(75 percent) the most desirable water system, regardless of the type of water source they are currently
using. On average, households would be willing to pay a one-time fee of $17, or 5 percent of total annual
income ($355) for the installation or construction of the water supply system of their choice. In addition,
they would be willing to pay a monthly fee of 50 cents, or one-twxo percent of their monthly income ($30).
for the usage of the new system.
19.    A households' willingness to pay for an improved water supply system is directly related to its
income. The wealthiest quartile of households included in the sample is willing to pay the highest
absolute one-time installation fee ($20), but in terms of percentage of annual income, the poorest segment
of households is willing to pay the most, close to 10 percent of total annual income, compared to 3
percent of total income in the highest income group. Given the widespread poverty among the population
in the project area, people's willingness to pay for the water supply system of their choice, which in most
cases is an indoor pipe connection, is remarkably high.  [his indicates again the high level of
dissatisfaction with current water sources, as well as very high expectations regarding the improvement
of water supply and quality by means of a pipe connection.
HTygiene, Sanitation and Health
20.    In both urban and rural communities, the most common place for household members to wash
themselves, is a makeshift shower facility in the yard. One fifth of households were found to have indoor
washing facilities, while 15 percent of families rely on public bath houses for personal hygiene. While
most households have access to washing facilities, the frequency of taking a shower or bathing is
alarmingly low for both adults and children, especially in rural areas. Bath houses are only visited one-
four times per month, even though an alternative washing facility may not be available. In over 15
percent of families, children are washed less frequently than once a week in winter. In 15 percent of
urban and 30 percent of rural households, no soap was found near the washing facility.
21.    Most households (93 percent) use unventilated, unlined outside latrines; close to 5 percent of
households, all of them living in etrap centers, use public latrines. Only around 2 percent of respondents
claim to have a latrine inside their home. Yard (outside) latrines are permanent constructions in only 25
percent of households that use this kind of excreta disposal system. In all other cases, latrines need to be
moved when the pit is full, in most cases once a year. In many cases the level of ground water
determines the capacity of a latrine pit and thereby the frequency with which the location of a latrine must



Page 52                                         Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project
be changed. In most cases, latrines are cleaned only once a week or less frequently. These observations
stand in stark contrast with the fact that adequate sanitation is considered a major problem by less than
one percent of respondents.
22.    Based on both observed facts and people's own perception, the state of health of Dashkhovuz
residents must give reason for concern. Close to 40 percent of households describe the general state of
health of their members as "not very healthy", or "in poor health". In 34 percent of all households with
children six years old or younger, a child had been ill during the week preceding the survey. The flu was
reported to be the most common illness among children. Cases of diarrhea and intestinal parasites were
reported more frequently in rural than in urban areas.
23.    While no statistically significant correlation between child diseases and hygiene and sanitation
related behavior in families (frequency of washing children, frequency of cleaning latrine, etc.) was found
for the survey sample, the type of water source for drinking water used by individual families seems to
have an influence on the occurrence of certain diseases among children. Diseases related to intestinal
parasites, for example, are more common in households that use water from hand pumps, while the
occurrence of hepatitis A among children is higher in families that use water from surface water sources.
Subsequent studies during the preparation of the proposed project will be necessary to further explore and
explain these correlations.
Policy Implications
24.    Although etrap centers and rural communities centered around collective farms show very similar
characteristics with regard to infrastructure, architecture and lifestyle, they differ significantly with regard
to water supply and water use. Rural households are especially disadvantaged with respect to piped water
access and availability. It is therefore recommended that the first stage of the planned project focus on
the rehabilitation and expansion of existing piped systems in rural areas.
25.    An improvement of piped water systems already in place must be accompanied by the
revitalization or construction of chlorination facilities. As established in the report, only a third of existing
rural pipe networks are equipped with a chlorination facility, and in both urban and rural areas, only 31
percent of chlorination devices actually function. Adequate water chlorination would not only reduce the
risk of the population's exposure to water borne diseases, but also help save energy necessary to boil
water, a commonly used disinfection method in households and public institutions.
26.    Most households do not know which agency is responsible for the installation, operation and
maintenance of piped water systems in their community. Also, people generally have no idea about the
costs attached to these activities. Proper repair and maintenance services of public utilities are, however,
closely linked to the customers' (end users') possibility to report damage and address complaints to a
clearly visible, transparent institution.  It is, therefore, important to accompany actual technical
improvements of piped systems in individual communities with the provision of better customer service
and outreach by the responsible local water agency.
27.    As established above, people's willingness to pay for the water supply system of their choice, as
expressed in percentage of annual income, is surprisingly high. However, given the irregularity of salary
payments, and a family's high reliance on uncertain secondary income sources, it is doubtful that such fees
could actually be collected. The project should therefore build on in-kind contributions based on labor
for installation and maintenance of system components, rather than cash payments. However, a reasonable
annual fee should be collected to promote among the population the concept of resource pricing and to
enhance water conservation.



Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Proiect                                        Page 53
28.    The hygiene behavior of the population in the project area, as described by the existence of
washing facilities, the frequency of washing children, the presence of a hand washing facility near latrines
and other indicators, must give reason for concern in the whole region. Consequently, a campaign on the
importance of personal hygiene and sound sanitary facilities should be launched. Such an outreach effort
should focus strongly on institutions, where many people share cafeterias and sanitation facilities, and the
risk of transmission of diseases through unsafe hygienic behavior is especially high.
29.    The most common excreta disposal system  used by over 65 percent of households in the
communities included in the survey is an unventilated pit latrine in the yard. Only a fourth of these
latrines were found to be permanent constructions that can be emptied and used for an unlimited period
of time. However, the construction or installation of better sanitation facilities ranks very low on
households' list of problems and needs therefore any technical efforts to improve sanitation facilities in
the project area must be accompanied by a public awareness campaign on sanitation, hygiene, and health
in order to create a demand for improved services. Alternative, low cost latrine designs should be
considered.
30.    Project preparation includes a demonstration sanitation activity in schools. Most of the visited
institutions could benefit from such a demonstration. From the greatest need-based perspective, the pilot
project should be implemented in one of the schools in rural Boldumsaz, where the worst sanitary
conditions were encountered.
3 1.    An attempt was made throughout the needs assessment to find links between water consumption,
sanitation behavior and health. The findings presented in this report, such as the higher occurrence of
specific diseases among users of certain drinking water sources, and the more pessimistic self evaluation
regarding health by residents of specific etraps, should be further discussed during focus group meetings,
and, if possible, scientifically tested. Also, further research will be necessary to collect more information
on water treatment and water storage in order to gain a better picture of the risk of water contamination
incurred by households in the project area.



Paze 54                                             Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
ANNEX C: INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT6
A. Existing Organizational Framework
1.     Central Government Institutions With Sector Responsibilities
a.     Introduction This section presents a broad overview  of the principal institutions within the
Government of Turkmenistan with responsibilities for water, sanitation and health. These organizations
are briefly described below, with their areas of interest in the sector noted.
b.      Comments on Names of Organizations   The English versions of the names of government
organizations often seem strained when literally translated from Russian. Simplified translations have
been used in these notes to indicate the essence of the duties of the organizations, with titles more
commonly understood in English. Approximations of the literal Russian translation of the various
organizations described below appear in parentheses following the simplified name.
c.      Ministry of Water Resources (MWR)  This ministry has control over the allocation of the
country's water sources. Any "enterprise" (agricultural farms, industries, communities or others) wishing
to extract water (from surface or ground sources), or to discharge used or wastewater, must obtain written
authorization from this ministry to do so. Other entities also are involved in the application and review
process, but ultimate approval lies with the ministry. MWR also has a construction division, which is
responsible for constructing the major works for augmenting water supply to Dashkhovuz.
d.      Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) This ministry is the principal user of the country's water
resources in the form of irrigation. As such, it has a major impact on potable water supply because much
of the municipal water supply in Dashkhovuz is taken from shallow wells which are hydraulically linked
to the irrigation canals.  As a consequence, while the amounts removed for potable water are
inconsequential relative to irrigation usage, the quality of the irrigation water directly impacts that of the
potable water.
e.      Ministry of Environment (MOE) (Ministry of Nature and Ecology) This ministry has broad
statutory powers to approve applications for use of waters and disposal of wastewaters, but ultimately the
MWR appears to have the final say in such matters. The MOE was only established in 1989, and had
very little authority until 1992. Like similar ministries in other countries of the FSU, their legal powers
appear to be greater than their actual powers. They also have broad responsibilities over a wide range
of environmental issues, including use of pesticides, fertilizers and defoliants. They set standards for air
quality and wastewater treatment, and are currently following the GOST standards established by the
Soviet Union. They maintain a Department of Control and Inspection, with branches in all five regions
and the Caspian Sea, which is responsible for enforcing standards and compliance with agreements
reached for extraction of water, the quantity and quality of wastewater discharges, and air quality.
Unfortunately, this ministry does not have enforcement capabilities to match its legal powers.
f.      Ministry of Health (Sanitary and Epidemiological Services) (MOH/SES). SES is the division of
the MOH of most importance to the water, sanitation and health sectors. SES maintains a total of 67
"stations". There is a station in the capital city district of Ashgabat, each of the five velayets, all of the
6The information on which this is assessment was based comes from the project identification mission and background notes, Feebruary,
1995. Since Turkmenistan has been moving forward with reforms and reorganizations in several sectors, some of the information under
"Existing Organizational Framework" may have changed.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect                                    Page 55
etraps, and additional stations for inspecting ships and planes. In Dashkhovuz, for example, there are
stations in the city and Velayet of Dashkhovuz and in each of the etraps, for a total of 10 stations. SES
maintains 9 laboratories in Dashkhovuz. One serves both the city and velayet, and there are laboratories
in each of the etraps. The principal responsibilities of MOH/SES include: (1) monitor (collect samples
periodically and analyze the samples in their labs) the quality of potable water in public water systems
to ensure compliance with current standards (they use GOST standards), (2) collect and record
information on illnesses and diseases, and (3) investigate factors that could be harmful to the water, air,
ground and food environments.
g.     Turkmen Geology Committee   (TGC) The structure of the Geology function is that of a
Committee, headed by a General Director, and is not a ministry. It may be a "State" Committee, in that
it reports directly to the Cabinet of Ministers rather than through another ministry. A state committee
has most of the autonomy of a ministry, but ranks just below a ministry in importance. There are two
major divisions in the TGC. The Water Division is headed by a Chief Hydrogeologist, and the Mineral
Division is headed by a Chief Geologist. The Water Division has offices in all five velayets. These
branch offices can be either "Expeditions", which perform projects using only budgeted government
funds, or "Concerns", which work either with budgeted funds or under contract to other parties. At the
national level, the principal responsibility of the Water Division is to conduct research and carry out
investigations and planning to locate fresh water sources. Dashkhovuz has a "Concern", the South Aral
Hydrogeology Company (SAHC). Responsibilities at the velayet level are to conduct studies, drill wells,
monitor groundwater levels, advise "enterprises" of the availability of groundwater resources and approve
licenses for the extraction of groundwaters (which the enterprises need to obtain further permits from the
MOE and MWR to use those waters), and give advice to enterprises about the proper operation of wells
drilled by the TGC.
h.    Institute of Design  (IOD) (State Scientific Research, Design and Investigation Institute) IOD is
subordinate to the Ministry of Water Resources. Although there are other small design institutes
conducting minor projects, IOD is the only institute with the capability of undertaking planning and
design for major projects. Among its other duties, the IOD serves as a the technical planning entity for
studies and designs of water and wastewater projects. IOD is also said to supervise the construction of
works that they designed. If so, this is unusual in FSU practice, where construction supervision is rarely
practiced. They receive assignments from various governmental organizations at the national and
regional (velayet) levels. IOD became involved in the Dashkhovuz water supply schemes (source
augmentation) at the invitation of GOSTROI, the former soviet construction institute. IOD is also
responsible for the plan to ensure that all potable water is supplied by groundwater rather than from
surface supplies. This plan was developed in support of the recent Presidential Decree that established
this as official policy.
i.    Institute of Chemistry  (IOC) (Institute of Chemistry of the Academy of Sciences) Among its
other duties, the IOC maintains the only laboratory in Turkmenistan that has the capability of performing
water quality testing at the level of internationally acceptable standards. The IOC acts as an advisor to
various government organizations in matters of water quality.
j.     Housing and Communal Services (HCS) Up to about 1991, the HCS was a ministry. The duties
and responsibilities of HCS are now delegated to the velayet level, but a small group of advisors at the
Cabinet of Ministers serves to coordinate the HCS activities at the regional level. This national group
appears to have no executive powers or responsibilities. HCS is discussed in more detail in the following
sections on organizations at the regional level, where it appears to operate as a "trust". As part of the
old ministry establishment, there was a national Communal Design Institute (Communproyect). This
institute was responsible for the design of many of the water and wastewater systems in the country. The



Page 56                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project
institute still exists, and now serves as a quasi-private consulting firm, specializing in water and
wastewater projects.
k.     Desert Research Institute  (DRI) Some 80% of the country is desert. The DRI is said to be one
of some ten similar institutes in the world, and is linked to the UN agency ESCAP. DRI has been
involved in a project for producing small, portable water filters. They have also proposed a study of the
environmental impact of irrigation and drainage as it effects desert lands, but this has not been approved
by the Government. DRI publishes bi-monthly scientific journals, which are available in English. The
next issue will discuss water and sanitation conditions in Turkmenistan, and is based on the conference
on this subject held in Ashgabat in September 1994. Officials report that nomads obtain water for
themselves and their livestock from dug wells as deep as 30 meters.
2.    Dashkhovuz Velayet Organizations with Sector Responsibilities
a.     Hakimlik of Dashkhovuz Velavet The five velayets or regions of Turkmenistan have considerable
authority, and the powers in the Velayet are vested in the Hakimlik. The term Hakimlik is roughly
translated as "the office of the leader". The leader of the Hakimlik is the Hakim, or governor. Each
etrap, or sub-region, is also headed by a Hakim. The etrap Hakims are responsible to the Velayet Hakim.
Etrap cities and collective farm are headed by an Archin. There are typically about four Vice-Hakims
which report to the Hakim. Allocation of duties varies, but broad categories include (1) transport,
construction, communications, housing and communal services, and rural water supply, (2) agriculture,
(3) commerce, business, legislation and administration, and (4) health, sanitation, culture and women's
issues. Petroleum may supplant agriculture in some velayets. Housing and communal services includes
public housing, central heating, water supply and piped wastewater collection and disposal (rare), but not
latrines, except for pumping out public latrines. Sanitation includes food handling in markets and
restaurants, and water quality.
b.     City of Dashkhovuz  In a manner somewhat comparable to Ashgabat, the City of Dashkhovuz
has its own organizations, including a separate department of Housing and Communal Services. This
department is responsible for water supply and piped wastewater collection and disposal in the city. This
responsibility is vested in the Dashkhovuz Vodocanal (water and sewer utility).
c.     City of Kuneurgench  Dashkhovuz and Kuneurgench are the only officially designated "cities"
of the Velayet. The urban capitals of the other etraps are called "city-type settlements" (or etrap centers).
Like Dashkhovuz, Kuneurgench has responsibility for its own water supply, and has its own Vodocanal.
d.     Regional Offices of National Organizations   Most ministries have local representatives at the
velayet level. There appears to be a dual relationship to the parent ministry and the Hakimlik of the
Velayet. HCS, no longer a ministry, operates as a "trust" at the Velayet Hakimlik, but, at the etrap
level, HCS appears to be subordinated to the Vice-Hakims of the etrap Hakimliks. The significance of
operating as a trust is not clear. There does not appear to be a regional branch of the Institutes for
Design and Chemistry. The Expeditions or Concerns of the TGC appear to be independent of the
Hakimlik.
e.     Rural Water Supplv Department (RWSD) The responsibilities for the provision of potable water
in Dashkhovuz Velayet are widely scattered. As noted, Dashkhovuz and Kuneurgench have their own
Vodocanals, which report to HCS at the velayet level. Water supply in the etrap centers is the
responsibility of a Vice Hakim who has links to the housing and communal services department at the
Velayet level, but is directly responsible to the etrap Hakim. However, some 69% of the velayet
population lives in rural areas. Primary responsibility for serving these people with potable water is



Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Proiect                                      Page 57
assigned to the Rural Water Supply Department of the Hakimlik of Dashkhovuz. This arrangement
appears to be peculiar to Dashkhovuz. In other velayets, the MWR has this responsibility. Even in
Dashkhovuz, MWR arranges for the construction of the works, which are then turned over to RWSD for
operation. The great majority of the rural population live on collective farms. RWSD currently
maintains water systems in less than half the 104 collective farms in the velayet. Based on experiences
in other countries of the FSU, the Ministry of Agriculture was probably responsible for providing
drinking water to the farms, but this appears to be no longer the case. RWSD operates some 48 rural
water systems. Most other collectives have either no system or inoperative systems. In those cases, the
Archins or managers of the collective farms are said to have responsibility for water supply. In practice,
most people meet their own water needs, largely through dug or drilled wells with handpumps.
5.     Etrap Sector Responsibilities
Hakimliks of the Etraps As noted, there are eight developed etraps in Dashkhovuz Velayet. Of these,
one (Turkmenbashi) has no settlement capital, and Dashkhovuz etrap has a settlement that is not a capital
(Niyazovsck). The etraps have structures similar to those of Dashkhovuz Velayet, with a Hakim and
several (usually four) Vice-Hakims. The MOH/SES and HCS organizations have local staffs in the
etraps, under Vice-Hakims, for water, sanitation and health. These responsibilities appear to be limited
to the settlement cities for water supply, but the health services may be extended to the rural areas within
the etraps. HCS offices appear to have responsibility for pumping out public latrines in the cities and
settlements, but not in rural areas. No organization appears to have responsibility for the design,
construction, and promulgation of latrines, nor in the education of people as to their use and the
importance of such use to their health.
B. Institutional Assessment
1.     Organizational Weaknesses
a.     Lack of Focus on Sector Responsibilities Housing and Comnmunal Services (HCS), before it was
disbanded as a ministry, was responsible for the provision of water supply to the people of Turkmenistan.
Since disbandment, that responsibility has not been represented at the ministerial level. The Ministry of
Water Resources has the important responsibility of serving as the adjudicator of how the country's scarce
water resources are to be allocated and it is presently the ministry most closely associated with the
provision of public water supply. However, MWR has no department with responsibility for the public
water supply sector. At the velayet level, HCS is responsible for public water supply and for wastewater
collection and disposal. However, HCS has many other responsibilities, and water and wastewater is just
one of many communal services in its portfolio.
b.     Gaps in Responsibilities The most obvious gap in sector responsibilities is that for the provision
of safe and convenient means of excreta disposal. Current analyses of health studies indicate that
hygienic disposal of human excreta is one of the most critical requirements to assure the health of the
people. The Housing and Communal Services department is responsible for the provision of piped
sewerage systems for the disposal of wastewater, but there is only one such system in the entire velayet,
in Dashkhovuz City. As no other urban settlement has any significant levels of interior plumbing, there
is currently no need for other piped sewer systems. HCS also has the responsibility for pumping out
public latrines, but this is a very limited effort. There are no safe and economic means presently
available for the sanitary removal and disposal of household excreta wastes. The great majority of the
people in Dashkhovuz utilize very simple but unhygienic pit latrines, and no organization appears to have
responsibility for the design, construction or promulgation of adequate latrines, or programs for the
education of the people in the importance and hygienic use of latrines.



Page 58                                        Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
c.     Overlapping Responsibilities  Some 69% of the population of Dashkhovuz live in rural areas,
yet less than half of these people are served by the Rural Water Supply department. In other velayets,
MWR has reponsibility for rural water supply. Even in Dashkhovuz, MWR has the responsibility for
the construction of rural water systems, while RWS only has operational responsibilities.  The water
systems that RWS operates are very similar to those in the urban settlements, yet RWS and HCS, which
operates the urban systems, function independently.
e.     National Sector Policy Problems One of the problems with national policy is its failure to assign
clear responsibility for the water, wastewater and sanitation sector. Another problem is the existing law
preventing sector utilities from collecting fees for the services they perform. The lack of long term
planning for the sector is one of the consequences of failure to assign overall sector responsibility to a
specific government agency. The inadequacies of the existing systems and the large numbers of people
without adequate water or sanitation services have several causes, but inadequate funding is one of the
principal ones. National pricing policies and lack of focussed responsibility are among the principal
causes of the lack of funding.
2.     Operational Weaknesses
a.     Planning and Management There is little evidence of long term planning to overcome existing
deficiencies. Even the current crisis of providing water only a few hours per day appears to be accepted
with resignation, though there is evidence that water is being wasted under present procedures in volumes
which considerably exceed the amounts required to meet the needs of the people 24 hours per day. In
many tables of organization, far too many departments report to the head of the organization. There was
little evidence of any systems for the accurate collection of financial and technical operating data, and for
the distribution of this information to managers. Except for antiquated personal computers (286 units,
with 1 MB of RAM  and 40 MB hard disk was typical) at the Geology Committee and Institute of
Chemistry, no computers were observed at the offices visited. Realistic budgeting and cost estimating
are not practiced at the water supply utility level.
b.     Operation and Maintenance  The current financial difficulties contribute to severe operational
problems. Critical parts and supplies are rarely available. Equipment is often cannibalized, and any but
the simplest of repairs usually must be made in Dashkhovuz City or, more commonly, back in Ashgabat.
Procurement procedures are centralized and complicated, and operators have little control over obtaining
the equipment and supplies they require. There was little evidence of preventive maintenance, or the
tools with which to accomplish it. On the other hand, there is often no budget for grease, pump packing
I tools or other materials and supplies. Operators rarely have copies of the plans and specifications for
the works under their responsibility, and no operating manuals or guidelines were noted.
Almost all the piped water systems in Dashkhovuz Velayet utilize water from shallow wells adjacent to
irrigation canals.  It appears that some of the problems with degraded water quality from these wells
results from operation of the wells in a manner that does not comply with recommendations from the
authorities of the TGC's hydrogeological companies. Given the importance of these wells, consideration
should be given to providing TGC a stronger role in ensuring the proper operation of these wells.
c.     Human Resources   Salaries of employees in the water, sanitation and health sectors in
Dashkhovuz Velayet are extremely low, particularly in relation to the Capital. For instance, employees
of the carpet factory in Ashgabat earn twice the pay of a senior engineer in most departments in
Dashkhovuz, where typical salaries at the senior levels are in the order of less than US$ 20 per month.
Working conditions are poor, with inadequate vehicles for transport, poor communications and sparsely
equipped and furnished offices. Training programs are few and generally inappropriate. Training (most



Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Proiect                                        Page 59
of it dating back to pre-independence) often seemed to focus on design and advanced technologies rather
than meeting actual needs.
3.     Summary of the Existing Institutional Situation of the Sector
The principal weaknesses of the sector include (1) allocation of responsibility for the sector among too
many governmental agencies, (2) the wide range of responsibilities other than water and sanitation
assigned to HCS, the principal agency charged with providing water supply, (3) lack of technical and
management skills throughout the sector, (4) the absence of a coherent program for the effective operation
and maintenance of water and sanitation facilities, (5) inadequate focus on the importance of providing
effective means of excreta disposal, (6) inadequacy of funding for both capital construction of new and
replacement facilities, and for operation and maintenance of existing facilities, and (7) a national policy
which provides water and sanitation services at no cost to the users.
C. Institutional Strengthening
1.     Proposed Approach to Sector Reform
There are three components of the proposed approach for building capacity for the effective provision
of water and sanitation services in Dashkhovuz: (1) reform of the sector at the national level, (2)
reorganization of the sector at the velayet level, and (3) internal strengthening of the velayet sector
organizations.
2.     Sector Reform Needs at the National Level
a.     Assignment and Clarification of Responsibilities The various laws and regulations of the country
should be reviewed and revised to clarify responsibilities for the water, wastewater and sanitation sector.
The following general principles are suggested for adoption:
(1)    Primary Responsibility to the Velayets  Assign primary responsibility for providing
water, wastewater and sanitation services (the sector) for the people of Turkmenistan to
the five velayets, or regions
(2)    Regulatory and Support Role for the National Government Retain the responsibility and
improve the capacity for regulation, policy setting and broad sectoral planning; and
provide sector support such as training of facility operation and maintenance staff
(3)    Inter-Ministerial Coordination Clarify the relationships and responsibilities among all
ministries to ensure that (a) the regulatory functions of MOH, MOE, MOF and MWR
(for water quality and health; wastewater and septage disposal and environmental
concerns; budgeting, finance and personnel policies; and priority allocation of water
resources) are appropriate and clear, and (b) that the planning, design, construction,
operation and maintenance of sector facilities are reserved to the velayet sector
organizations, and not by any other ministry.
b.     Required Actions at the National Level In order to achieve these reforms, the actions to be taken
include:
(1)    Obtain national approval of the proposed program for institutional development of the



Page 60                                        Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
water, wastewater and sanitation sector (the sector)
(2)    Appoint the Ministry of Water Resources, or such other national ministerial level body
as the government may decide, to assume sector responsibilities for broad national
planning, adoption of national policies and the provision of support as appropriate
(3)    Draft legislation which will (a) set forth and assign the national sector responsibilities
described above, (b) assigns responsibility for the planning, design, construction,
operation and maintenance of the sector to new "Regional Water and Sanitation
Authorities" at the velayet level, and (c) grants autonomy to the velayets in such
important matters as control over personnel, setting tariff levels, controlling finances, and
planning and execution of projects. (Note: Until such time as the velayet water and
sanitation organizations are financially self-supporting, the central government should
provide adequate funds for the construction and replacement of needed facilities, and for
the operation and maintenance of existing facilities)
3.     Reorganization of the Sector in Dashkhovuz Velayet
a.     Identification of Existing Sector Responsibilities and Needs in Dashkhovuz The first step toward
reorganization would be to identify existing responsibilities and needs. It appears that responsibility for
water supply and wastewater collection in urban centers, and for institutional sanitation in both urban and
rural areas is vested in the department of Housing and Communal Services (HCS). Responsibility for
water supply in rural areas is vested in the Rural Water Supply department of the velayet, but many rural
areas have little or no public water service. No organization has responsibility for excreta disposal or
sanitation services for homes or other private interests. While this may represent a general outline of the
sector in Dashkhovuz, full understanding will be required before the sector can be reorganized.
b.     Suggested Regional Sector Reorganization The proposed name of the new organization is the
"Dashkhovuz Regional Water Supply and Sanitation Authority" (Dashkhovuz Velayet Vodocanal). The
Authority could report to a new "Division of Water Supply and Sanitation" within the Ministry of Water
Resources, or some other arrangement as may be determined. The Authority would be governed by a
seven person Board of Directors and headed by a Managing Director.
The Authority would have three basic operating divisions: the Dashkhovuz Vodocanal (for facilities in
the velayet capital), the Etrap Centers Vodocanal (for facilities in all the etrap centers and the city of
Niayozovsk), and the Kolkhos or Rural Vodocanal (for facilities in the remaining areas of the Velayet).
The Authority would also contain five support divisions: Finance and Administration, Personnel,
Engineering, Quality Control and Customer Services. In addition, three functions would report directly
to the office of the Managing Director: Internal Audit, Legal and Public Relations. A provisional
organization chart for the new regional authority is presented as Annex 1. The basic duties of each of
the support divisions is listed on the chart.
4.      Strengthening the New Regional Organization
a.     Source of Personnel and Equipment for the New Organization The new organization would draw
heavily on the various sector organizations that already are functioning in the velayet. The operating
personnel for Dashkhovuz city now exist in the water and wastewater divisions of the Dashkhovuz
Vodocanal. The etrap Vice Hakims and their staffs, and the staff of the Rural Water Supply department
would become the core personnel for the operating divisions of the Etrap and Rural divisions,
respectively. All three groups would contribute personnel to be assigned to the support divisions,



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect                                  Page 61
according to their skills. However, the component organizations that would become a part of the new
regional organization have inadequate skills and limited resources compared to what would be required
to develop an effective water and sanitation utility.  Some of these skills include operation and
maintenance of facilities, management, collection and dissemination of critical information, finance,
administration and personnel. To build capacity in these areas would require training and the provision
of equipment and supplies.



Page 62                                       Turkmenistan: Water SupplV and Sanitation Project
ANNEX D: WATER QUALITY DATA
Selected 1994 analyses of Irrigation Waters and Extracted Groundwaters in Dashkhovuz Velayet
"Salinity"  Pesticides   Volatile   Lead  Cadmium    Nitrates  Oil
TDS      Lindane    Phenols  Pb       Cd mg/l      N03    Products
gram/I     ug/l       ug/l    mg/l                  mg/l   mg/I
Boldumsaz (Canal)       0.6       0.320      14.0    0.04     0.002         5      0.07
Boldumsaz (Storage)     1.4        TR        5.4    0.05      0.005         8      0.08
Tagta (Canal)           0.6       0.007      57.0    0.04     0.006         4      0.03
Tagta (Storage)         1.4       0.006      5.5    0.28      0.002         7      0.08
Yilanly (Canal)         0.6       0.006       1.5    0.02     0.006         3      0.06
Yilanly (Storage)       1.3       0.007       1.3    0.04     0.002         15    0.07
Ackedepe (Canal)        0.7       0.008       1.4    0.04     0.005         4      0.29
Ackdepe (Storage)       1.6        TR         1.0    0.04     0.002         8      0.06
Gubadagh (Canal)        0.6       1.149       1.7    0.02     ND            4      0.11
Gubadagh (Storage)      1.1        TR        13.7    0.04     0.002         4      0.04
Niyazavosk (Canal)      0.6       0.017       1.0    0.02     0.005         4      1.62
Niyazavosk (Storage)    1.7       0.006      12.7    0.01     TR            14    0.01
Turkmenbashi (Canal)    0.7       0.031       1.4    0.03     0.006         3      0.19
Turkmenbashi (Stor.)    1.2       0.007       1.0    0.04     0.001         5      0.06
Kuneurgench (Canal)     0.6       0.037       1.5    0.02     ND            4      0.59
Kuneurgench (Stor.)     1.2       0.007      22.0    0.04     0.002         6      0.07
Dashkhovuz (Canal)      0.8       0.006       1.5    0.03     0.006         3      0.22
Dashkhovuz (Storage)    1.7       0.006       1.0    0.04     0.001         9      0.17
USEPA Standards         0.5       0.200      2.0    0.015    0.005          45     0.10
EU Standards            NA         NA        0.5    0.05      0.005         50     NA
Notes: NA: Not Available, TR: Trace, TDS: Total Dissolved Solids, Oil Products: Aliphatic Hydrocarbons.
Canal samples were taken from the irrigation canal in the city indicated.
Storage samples were taken from the ground storage reservoirs of extracted groundwaters beside the canal.
All samples taken and analyzed by the Institute of Chemistry, Ashgabat.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                    Page 63
ANNEX E: COST RECOVERY CONSIDERATIONS FOR
DASHKHOVUZ VELAYET
A.    World Bank Experience and Policy on Cost Recovery for Water Projects
The World Bank has over twenty years' experience with water supply and sanitation projects worldwide,
and has closely examined the results of these investments. In the past, many projects have experienced
implementation and operational problems. Analysis of the Bank's water and sanitation portfolio has
shown that, underlying these problems, is a vicious cycle of poor water quality and unreliable service
delivery that results in consumer's reduced willingness-to-pay, which, in turn, generates inadequate
operating funds and a further deterioration in services. Experience has proven that water must be
recognized as an economic good, and that most of the financing must come from users in order for
investments in water supply projects to be sustainable. These results from the World Bank investment
projects in water supply and sanitation have led to the adoption of the Bank's policy that water pricing
and cost recovery are essential to project sustainability and must be included in all projects. The World
Bank policy states that cost recovery should be sufficient to pay both for operation and maintenance, as
well as a fair return on capital investment. User fees not only address the financial sustainability of water
supply systems but they also serve to conserve scarce water and thus contribute to the environmental
sustainability of World Bank funded projects.
B.    Financial Analysis of the Current Project
1.    Tariff Rates Required to Recover all Proiect Costs  The Turkmenistan Water Supply and
Sanitation project preparation has included an economic and financial analysis which is summarized in
the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report. The analysis calculated the average tariff necessary to fully cover the
total financial costs of the project, including (1) the cost to operate and maintain the new and rehabilitated
water system (O&M costs), and (2) the cost to repay the loan required to finance the project. The tariffs
required to finance the water systems in the etrap cities is about $0. 53 per cubic meter, and the tariff
rate required to recover all the costs for the collective farm systems is about $0.63 per cubic meter.
These values may change somewhat as final adjustments are made to the project.
2.     Tariff Rates Required to Recover O&M Costs While the Bank policy proposes full cost recovery,
this may be unrealistic at this time under the conditions which exist in Turkinenistan. As a consequence,
the financial analysis also considered the tariff rates required to recover only the O&M component of the
total project costs. The analysis determined that a tariff rate of about $0.15 per cubic meter would be
sufficient to recover this component of project costs for water supply system improvements in both the
etrap cities and the collective farms.
3.     Rule-of-Thumb for Determining Affordability Experience in developing countries has indicated
that people can afford and generally are willing to pay from 4 to 6% of their monthly income for a
dependable supply of safe drinking water. Household income data for Dashkhovuz are difficult to
determine with accuracy, but average monthly income for households with yard connections (which tend
to be more affluent than households served by street faucets) are in the order of $25 per month.
Applying the above "affordability" test, households with yard connections should be able to afford from
$1.00 to $1.50 per month to pay for a dependable supply of water. At current (mid-January 1997) rates
of exchange, this amounts to about 5,500 to 8,000 manats per month. As described in paragraph 5 of
Section D, the estimated cost to households with yard connections would be about 7,000 manats, or 5.4%
of household income. Such a charge appears to be affordable.



Page 64                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
C.    Common Methods of Charging for Water Provided to Customers
1.    Introduction Whether water utilities are owned by the government or a private company, almost
without exception, these utilities charge their customers for the water which is delivered to them. With
some variations, the water is charged to the user in one of the following four ways:
2.     Metering The most common means of determining the amount to be charged is to provide a
metering device on the pipe that delivers the water to the customer. This system requires that each
customer (household) has its own water connection. It also requires the cost of installing and reading the
meter, sending out the bills, and collecting the amounts due. It is the most expensive and complex
system, but it is also the fairest, since the user pays directly for the amount of water received. It has the
added advantage of encouraging users to conserve water and minimize waste.
3.     Flat Rate Charging This system is much simpler and much less expensive to administer. All
customers are billed a flat or equal charge each month, regardless of usage. The biggest disadvantage
is that the system is not fair, since large and small users pay the same. The system encourages waste and
discourages conservation.
4.     Component of Real Estate (Housing) Tax In communities where municipal taxes are charged
to owners of homes or apartment buildings, it is possible to add a surcharge to the real estate or housing
tax bill to allow for the cost of delivering water to these buildings. In this way, the home owner pays
for his water indirectly, and the apartment renter also pays indirectly for his water as a component of his
monthly rent. Some municipal or other governmental agencies object to acting as the "bill collector" for
the water utility. In addition, this system does not discourage water waste habits as the charge for water
is hidden in the tax bill.
5.     Charges Based on Household Size or Plumbing Fixtures Some water utilities base the charge for
water use on the number of square meters in the house or apartment (this was common in the former
Soviet Union) or the number and type of water-using plumbing fixtures in the house or apartment. These
systems are difficult to administer because of problems in measurement of living space, or changes in the
number and type of plumbing units. This system also does little to discourage water waste habits as the
charge for water is not related to the amounts used.
6.     Conditions in Dashkhovuz Which Affect Water Pricing  The systems of charging for water
described above are based largely on systems under which water is delivered directly to each household.
In Dashkhovuz, most people receive their water through public street faucets (sometimes called
standpipes), and some by yard connections. Billing for water delivered by street faucets (or yard
connections) is more difficult, but has been done in other locations. Strategies for charging for water in
Dashkhovuz are discussed in the following section.
D.    Strategies for Charging for Water in Dashkhovuz
1.    Background There are several impediments to levying charges for water in Dashkhovuz. One
is the current national policy that water is considered to be a benefit to be provided to the people without
cost. Another is the relative poverty of the people in the area. Other impediments include the very poor
quality of the water service currently being provided, and the sense of being treated fairly. "Why should
I pay if others don't have to?" is a question that deserves a reasonable answer.
2.     Strategy No. 1 The first strategy is to make it clear to everyone that no one should be asked to
pay for water until there is a demonstrable improvement in the quality of the service being provided.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                    Page 65
Only those users who receive water from the new or rehabilitated water supply systems in their
communities will be asked to pay for the water they receive from the systems.
3.     Strategy No. 2 The next strategy is to start now to inform the people of the intentions of the new
water supply improvement scheme; which is to provide safe, disinfected, water under pressure to their
neighborhood street faucet or their yard connection for most hours during the day. At the same time,
the people will be advised that it will cost money to maintain this new, improved level of service, and
that this level cannot be maintained without the financial support of the users. The answer to their
question as to why they should have to pay when others don't, is that the others aren't getting this better
level of service. A public education program should be prepared and conducted to introduce these
concepts, the need for water conservation, and to demonstrate that water is a valuable commodity worth
paying for.
4.     Strategy No. 3 The third strategy is to provide differential levels of payment for those who have
to carry their water from street faucets and those who have it delivered to their yards by a direct piped
connection. As the service improves, it is expected that there will be an increased demand by more
people for yard connections. The Social Needs Assessment clearly demonstrated that yard connections
are greatly preferred over the use of public street faucets. Households will have to pay the cost of
making this connection to the system to pipe water to their yards. They will then have to make larger
monthly payments to the water utility once the connection is completed, further increasing the revenues
to the utility. People with yard connections should be expected to pay two to three times as much for
their service as those who have to carry their water, and the tariff structure should provide for this.
5.     Strategy No. 4 The initial stage of cost recovery would be based on charging fees for water used
by those with yard connections at a level which provides for the full recovery of the estimated operation
and maintenance (O&M) cost component of the water used. In the absence of water meters, charges
would be based on their estimated water usage. The convenience of direct yard connections will increase
the amounts of water used, so it was assumed that water usage by those with connections would amount
to 50 liters per capita per day (Ipcd). Assuming six persons per household, a typical household would
use nine cubic meters per month. The estimated cost of the O&M component of the total cost of water
is $0.15 per cubic meter. For nine cubic meters per month, this represents a cost of $1.35 per household
per month. At current exchange rates, this amounts to about 7,000 manats per household per month, or
about 5.4% of estimated monthly household income. The charge to those receiving water from street
faucets could be in the order of 2,000 to 3,000 manat per month per household, and could vary (below
or above this range) depending on the number of persons per household.
6.     Strategy No. 5 In order to collect information about actual water usage, it is recommended that
some of the yard connection customers be provided with water meters. A pilot program of installing
meters on about 20% of all yard connections is suggested. These customers would be billed on the same
estimated rate as other yard connection customers, not on the basis of the metered water use. At some
future date, the water utility may wish to install meters on all yard connections and bill for actual water
used, but this probably should not be done initially. Water metering is currently being studied in a pilot
program in Ashgabat under a UNDP-funded program, and the results of that study may be applied to
future programs in Dashkhovuz.
7..    Strategy No. 6  An early decision should be made on the method of charging for water in
Dashkhovuz, and a system for collecting the amounts charged. The system of charging and collection
should be in place and operational as soon as the improvements to the water system are available to the
people. Prior to implementation, this system should be fully explained by means of a public information
program.  Through gradual tariff increases in unit charges for water and increased use of yard



Page 66                                       Turkmnenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
connections in place of street faucets, the full costs of operation and maintenance to support the new
water systems should be recovered by the time the project is implemented.
E.    Summary and Future Considerations
This paper has described some of the various systems used to recover the costs of water supply systems,
and has suggested a specific set of strategies to consider to implement cost recovery in Dashkhovuz.
Even though the system described in this paper will not result in full cost recovery, it will generate a
substantial flow of funds to contribute to the costs of operating and maintaining the new water supply
systems. Equally important, it will begin the process of educating people to the economic value of this
valuable resource, and the importance of paying for this service. The project will support the Government
in identifying, selecting and implementing a system of cost recovery which is best suited for the
conditions in Turkmenistan.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                  Page 67
ANNEX F: REVIEW OF THE TUYAMUYUN AND
LEBAT REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY SCHEMES
1.    Introduction. Two regional water supply schemes have been proposed by technical organisations
within the Government of Turkmenistan as solutions for the water supply problems of the Velayet of
Dashkhovuz. These are the Tuyamuyun surface water scheme, and the Lebat groundwater source.
Extensive investigations have been carried out on both these schemes by local organisations, and
construction has conmmenced on the Tuyamuyun supply scheme. As part of the project preparation
activities, a review of the two schemes has been carried out, and this annex summarises this work.
The Tuyamuyun Scheme
2.    Background. Water supplies for the velayet have historically been obtained from the irrigation
canal system, which is fed chiefly from the Shavat Canal. As the quality of this water deteriorated
significantly during the 1970s and 1980s, as a result of excessive use of agro-chemicals in the irrigated
areas upstream, alternative sources were sought to try to guarantee water of reasonable quality for the
velayet. The only source with a large enough yield is the Tuyamuyun reservoir on the Amu Darya, some
190 km upstream of Dashkhovuz, and this was selected for development. At the time the Government
of Uzbekistan was planning its own schemes based on the reservoir as a source. The reservoir, although
geographically within Turkmenistan, is jointly owned by Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan.
3.    The Tuyamuyun Reservoir. The reservoir has a retained volume of 2,340 million cubic metres,
and although largely used for hydropower and irrigation, is also used as a source of potable water for
two regions of Uzbekistan. The withdrawals for potable water (400,000 cubic metres per day for the
Uzbek schemes) are negligible in comparison to both the reservoir capacity and the water requirement
for irrigation. There are three other reservoirs, Kaparas, Sultan Sandjiran and Kozbulat, which are linked
to Tuyamuyun, and are at present used for irrigation storage, although there are plans to reserve the
Kaparas reservoir for use as a potable water source.
4.    The Kaparas Scheme. The Kaparas scheme was planned as a means of optimising the quality
of raw water available to the region for potable supplies. Water would be admitted to the reservoir
between April and July, when the snow melt from the headwaters of the Amu Darya results in
improvements in water quality. This water would then be abstracted for potable use when the water
quality in the Tuyamuyun reservoir deteriorated in the autumn and winter. Work was put in hand in 1990
by the Government of Uzbekistan to isolate the reservoir from the Tuyamuyun reservoir, and to construct
the intake arrangements and transfer pipelines needed for the Uzbek water supply schemes.
5.     Following the independence of Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, the use of agro-chemicals fell
dramatically, and one consequence was that river water quality improved, to the extent that agro-chemical
residues and heavy metals are no longer an important water quality issue in the Amu Darya. The most
significant quality issue is now water salinity, and despite extensive studies in Uzbekistan there are still
conflicting opinions on whether or not the water from a Kaparas scheme will be of significantly better
quality than water from the existing Tuyamuyun reservoir. The need for the Kaparas scheme, and
justification for the cost needed to complete it, is still unproven. In the meantime construction of the
isolating structures, and intake arrangements for the Uzbek schemes, is proceeding slowly. The cost of
construction of the additional intake needed for Turkmenistan, together with the transfer pipelines, is
estimated as US$ 82 million: this assumes that the isolating structures are completed by the Uzbeks.



Page 68                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
6.    The present scheme. The intake for the present scheme for Turkmenistan is located on the
Pitnyak-Arna canal, immediately downstream of the Tuyamuyun barrage. This will pump the raw water
10 km to a treatment plant, from where the treated water will be pumped a further 175 km to a main
distribution center near Dashkhovuz. Five pumping mains, with a total length of 292 km, will carry the
water from this distribution center to the etrap centers, including Dashkhovuz. Storage reservoirs would
be provided at each of the etrap centers, along with rechlorination facilities. There are no plans to supply
the collective farms from this system.
7.    The scheme has been planned in two phases: Phase 1, which is partially completed, would supply
109 Mid by 1995 , whilst Phase 2 would increase the scheme capacity to 337 Mid and was planned to
be completed in 2010. Work on Phase 1 commenced in 1989, but following the independence of
Turkmenistan, funding for construction became increasingly scarce, and work is now at a virtual
standstill. During the project identification mission the scheme was reviewed and it was considered that
the it represented a sufficient level of investment by the Government of Turkmnenistan to warrant
examining in detail the feasibility and costs of completing the first stage of the scheme, and determining
whether this could form part of this project.
8.    The design and concept of the scheme is in general appropriate although the pipeline sizing is
such that high operating costs will be incurred at the design flows. This may be because power at the time
of design was cheap, and it was advantageous to reduce the capital costs by installing smaller pipe
diameters. The treatment process is sophisticated and it may be possible to simplify this without
compromising the effectiveness of the treatment.
9.    At the present time, the civil engineering works on the intake and water treatment plant are
around 50% complete. The workmanship is not to usual international standards, although it is customary
in the region that extensive remedial works are carried out to most structures prior to their being put into
service. No mechanical and electrical equipment has been purchased to date. About 8.5 km of the raw
water pipeline has been laid, and 167 km of the treated water pipeline to Dashkhovuz. A small length
(20 km out of 292 km) of the pipelines from the distribution center near Dashkhovuz have been laid,
though work has not started on any of the pumping stations and reservoirs needed within the velayet.
10.   Costs to completion. The cost of completing Phase 1 of the scheme has been estimated as US$
514.5 million, as shown in Table x. 1: to provide a supply to Dashkhovuz alone will require an investment
of US$ 215 million. One of the major elements essential for completion of any variant of the original
scheme is the laying of the final sections of the raw and treated water pipelines, and lining of the existing
mains to prevent corrosion. The total cost of this work is estimated as US$ 150 million.
Table 1: Costs to complete Tuyamuyun Scheme
Item                                                 Cost (US$
million)
Intake and pumping station                              1.5
Raw water main                                         34.2
Treatment plant civil works                            28.7
Treatment works mechanical and electrical equipment    40.0
Main pipeline                                          115.5
Dashkhovuz distribution center                         12.0
Secondary trunk mains and pumping stations             282.6
Total                                                  514.5



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                    Page 69
11.   A revised scheme has been proposed in the consultant's feasibility report that would supply 75
Mld at a cost of US$ 322 million. The cost savings have been made by limiting the output, thus reducing
the size of the pumps and other scheme components that have not yet been built, and omitting some
treatment processes which are not considered to be needed following the improvement in quality of the
Tuyamuyun water. The scheme will then have the capacity to supply the etraps of Dashkhovuz,
Niyazovsk, Yilanly, Akdepe and Tagta, including the rural areas, although the cost estimate does not
include the cost of the pipelines to the rural centers.
12.    Conclusions. The Tuyamuyun scheme as presently conceived would supply only the etrap centres,
including Dashkhovuz. Completion of the scheme, even if it were within the financial limitations of the
proposed project, would not meet the objectives of the project in providing improvements to supplies in
both urban and rural areas across the velayet; indeed, it is probable that the majority of the water from
the new scheme would go to Dashkhovuz, at the expense of the etrap centres. The revised scheme
proposed by the consultants is an improvement in this regard, but the fact remains that whilst the local
sources remain viable in terms of water quality, the additional capital and operating costs (up to $
0.46/cu.m) of the scheme are not justified by the improvement in quality.
13.    There are doubts about the long term sustainability of the scheme, because of the reliance on
imported chemicals to treat the surface water, the durability, given the poor quality of construction
apparent in the works constructed to date, and the current lack of a suitable organisation to operate and
maintain the scheme. It is critical for such a large investment that an adequate operation and maintenance
organisation is set up well before the scheme is completed, and at the present time there is no clear
picture of where such an organisation will be developed from.
14.    The cost of completing the scheme, even at the reduced output proposed by the consultant, is far
in excess of the maximum loan amount envisaged for this project, or indeed any loan contemplated by
the Bank for the country in the near future.
15.    For the above reasons, it is concluded that it is not appropriate for the Bank to consider
supporting continued construction of the scheme at the present time. The viability of the scheme in the
longer term is dependent on the relative water quality in the irrigation canals in the velayet, and the
Tuyamuyun reservoir: if the canal water quality remains as at present, then there is no clear case for
expenditure on such a scale for a marginal improvement in water quality. However, the quality of both
waters needs to be closely monitored in the short term to detect any deterioration as early as possible.
The Lebat Groundwater Scheme
16.   This scheme would use the Balqui aquifer in the northern Kara-Kum desert, some 60 km south
of the Tuyamuyun canal and 220 km from Dashkhovuz. The aquifer is formed from alluvial sands,
possibly deposited by the Amu Darya in the period when it flowed to the Caspian Sea, and the water
resoures within the aquifer are essentially fossil water: some recharge from rainfall (annual average is
80 to 110 mm) and condensation does occur, but this is thought to be small compared to any likely
exploitation.
17.    Exploration of the aquifer has been carried out by the South Aral Hydrogelogical Expedition
(SAHE), who have determined that the aquifer is between 100 and 200 m thick, with the water table
between 19 and 38 m below ground level. The water in the aquifer varies in salinity, becoming more
saline with depth, and also as the alluvium becomes thinner at the edges of the aquifer. SAHE have
determined that the 1.5 g/l iso-salinity line (deemed to be the maximum salinty exploitable for potable
supplies) lies between 15 and 45 m below the water table for an area of 240 sq km. Total fresh



Page 70                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
groundwater reserves are estimated to be 210 million cu.m.
18.   In order to abstract only fresh water, it would be necessary to install doublet wells, with one deep
well (average depth 83 m) to draw the saline water away from the shallower (average 38 m deep)
freshwater well. The manageable yield with this configuration is estimated to be 8,640 cu.m/day, and it
is estimated that 100 doublet wells would be required. At this rate of abstraction the aquifer life would
be 66 years. To put the yield into context, the water demand for the seven etrap centers and seven
kolkhozes in the present project is 12,000 cu.m/day. The water wold be collected into a single
transmission main and pumped 60 km to the Tuyamuyun-Dashkhovuz pipeline, where it would be blended
with the Tuyamuyun water. As the Tuyamuyun-Dashkhovuz main is limited in capacity, the wellfield
would not therefore provide an additional resource, but would partially replace Tuyamuyun water.
19.    As a consequence of the method of abstraction, there will be 29,000 cu.m of saline water per day
to be disposed of at the peripheries of the aquifer. As well as adding to the cost, the environmental
consequences of these discharges would need to be assessed. The less saline water could be used for
agriculture, but this would require the establishment of farms in the area, and in such a manner that the
freshwater reserves were not compromised.
20.    The costs of the scheme have been estimated as US$ 84.5 million, assuming that the water would
be pumped to the Tuyamuyun-Dashkhovuz pipeline, then blended with the Tuyamuyun water. However,
if the scheme was constructed as an independent scheme (thus providing an additional resource for the
velayet) with a pipeline direct to Dashkhovuz, the cost would be US$ 240 million.
21.    As an independent source, the scheme would provide a small amount of water at a high capital
cost: in addition the supply of this water in itself would not meet the aim of the project, that is to direct
water supply improvements to as wide a population as possible. For these reasons it is considered that
the scheme is not appropriate for inclusion in this project, and also that it is not a viable source for
Dashkhovuz velayet.



Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project                                 Page 71
ANNEX G: HEALTH DATA
Table 1: Health Status in Central Asian Countries (1992/1993)
Indicator            Kazakstan     Uzbekistan   Turkmenistan    Kyrgyz.    Tajikistan
Republic
Total Fertility Rate        2.7          4.1         4.2           3.7         5.1
Life Expectancy            68.0         69.0        66.0          66.0        69.0
Infant Mortality Rate      31.0         42.0        46.0          37.0        49.0
Maternal Mortality         63.0         43.0      105 - 114       43.0        39.0
Ratio
Source:WDR 1996
Table 2: Health Status in the Aral Sea Disaster Areas (1994)
(per 100,000 inhabitants)
Aral Sea Disaster     Infant Mortality Rate  Maternal Mortality Rate
Areas
Kzyl-Orda                      28.0                     25.0
Kazakstan
Dashkhovuz Velayet             52.0                     96.0
Turkmenistan
Karakalpakstan                 35.8                     70.2
Uzbekistan
Source: WDR 1996
Table 3: Birth Rate
(per 1,000 inhabitants)
Birth Rate        1990_ 1991         1992     1993    1994
Turkmenistan            34.2     33.6      34.0     33.1    32.0
Dashkhovuz Velayet      37.1  j  37.3  j  37.3  j  36.0       -
Source: CIS Statistical Comr nittee 1995, Radzinsky et al 1994, UNIC]CF 1995, 1SAID 1995, and
Consultant Report



Page 72                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Table 4: Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 inhabitants)
IMR            1990    1991    1992        1993     1994     1995
Turkmenistan            45.1    47.0     43.6      45.9     46.4      42.2
Dashkhovuz Velayet      55.6    57.7     52.6      52.1     51.8      47.5
Dashkhovuz City                 48.7     41.9      38.8     37.5      38.7
Dashkhovuz Etrap                43       40.1      49       60.1      42.7
Akdepe                          65.3      53.1     52.7     51.0      49.5
Boldumsaz                       61.5     51.1      58.8     49.3      43.6
Gubadagh                        54.1     69.5      51.9     55.3      51.2
Kune-Urgench                    56.0     54.0      52.9     51.5      47.2
Turkmenbashi                    50.2     48.6      50.6     50.0      47.5
Tagta                           67.4     59.6      54.5     55.4      50
Yilanly              ____ 77.2           62.4      57.3  155.1        47.2
'ource.CIS Statistical Conunittee 19915, Radzinskyet al 1994, UNICEF 1995.USI19nd Consultant Report
Table 5: Maternal Mortality (per 100,000 births)
MMR             1990    1991      1992     1993     1994      1995
Turkmenistan            42.3             58.8      44.4
Dashkhovuz Velayet     125.9                       96.3
Dashkhovuz City
Dashkhovuz Etrap
Akdepe                          74.5     37.4    118.3                40.3
Boldumsaz                       51.1     97.9      28.2    197.1    202.0
Gubadagh                                254.1    305.8    101.5
Kune-Urgench                   143.1    123.9    152.9    150.1       82.1
Turkmenbashi                   108.8     31.2      51.0     58.0      34.7
Tagta                                    26.3      64.1     62.8    143.5
Yilanly                        126.4    132.8      35.5     28.9      31.9
Source.CIS Statistical Committee 1995, Radzinsky et al 1994, -UNIEF195 r3CSAI 195, ndonsultant keport



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                Page 73
Table 6: Diarrhea without Known Pathogen - Total Population
(per 100,000 inhabitants)
1989     1990    1991    1992       1993    1994
Turkmenistan           490.4    451.4   463.5    375.1    444.1
Dashkhovuz Velayet     420.5    401.4   371.9    254.7    285.1   236.6
Dashkhovuz City        367.9    314.9   291.8    234.1    282.2   285.1
Dashkhovuz Etrap       265.9    343.2   247       227.3    245.2   410.8
Akdepe                 435.5    444.9   423.5    290.4    415.8   263.2
Boldumsaz              293.9    417.7   326.1    144.1    206.7    40.8
Gubadagh               194.0    275.2   328.1    246.7      99.7    24.9
Kune-Urgench           422.1    601.4   336.7    294.5    408.2   233.7
Turkmenbashi           683.9    456.1   489.8    229.8    239.5   231.4
Tagta                  542.1    426.6   448.6    294.4    339.2   196.1
Yilanly                526.4    379.4   490.4    310.3    323.4   307
Source.CIS Statistical Comrnittee I995, Radzinsky et al 1994, UNICEF 1995, UJSAID 1995, and Consultant Report
Table 7: Hepatitis A - Total Population (per 100,000 inhabitants)
1989     1990    1991    1992       1993    1994
Turkmenistan           632.6    279.5   508.8    242.9    434.6
Dashkhovuz Velayet     558.9    224.3   416.4    208.2    282.4   153.3
Dashkhovuz City        686.6    166.1   629.4    179.3    496.9   161.4
Dashkhovuz Etrap       442.0    138.1   181.7      80.4    148.9   113.4
Akdepe                 740.3    372.6   349.4    341.3    431.8   271.7
Boldumsaz              710.2    196.1   352.2    206.7    290.0   109.4
Gubadagh               716.4    291.2   424.9    216.3    185.9   137.3
Kune-Urgench           394.8    275.4   287.6    313.3    239.4   137.9
Turkmenbashi           524.6    257.5   208.6    136.3    136.3    65.3
Tagta                  598.6    301.6   630.3    242.3    348.9   299.9
'ilanly                319.5    109.2  1369.      121.9  n 223.9    116.2
Source.-CIS Statistical Committee 99~5. Radzinsky et at 1994. UN[C_EF 1995. UJSAID 1995, and Consultant Report



Page 74                                        Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Table 8: Hepatitis A - Children Below Age of 14
(per 100,000 inhabitants)
1989      1990     1991      1992      1993     1994
Turkmenistan             74.5       56.2     74.6      54.3      69.9
Dashkhovuz Velayet       70.4      44.8      70.9      58.2      70.9     56.3
Dashkhovuz City          82.0      50.9      83.0      61.0      83.6     50.0
Dashkhovuz Etrap         69.9       50.7     77.5      34.5      65.3     65.9
Akdepe                   62.0      46.8      55.4      51.2      61.1     56.5
Boldumsaz                 81.0      48.0    77.7       70.5      72.2     65.6
Gubadagh                 72.0       35.0    73.6       68.5      65.3     60.3
Kune-Urgench             52.3       36.1    41.8       60.9      51.1     56.4
Turkmenbashi             42.5      43.5      35.2      34.6      59.8     20.6
Tagta                    84.4       50.4    76.4       63.5      84.7     72.3
Yilanly                  76.2      45.5     71.1       61.5      56.9     30.0
ource:CIS Statistical Committee 195 Radzinsky t al 1994   IC  995, USAID 1995, a    eport
Table 9: Incidence of Tuberculosis
(per 100,000 inhabitants)
1991     1992      1993      1994      1995
Turkmenistan             60.7      53.7      55.4      48.6      43.3
Dashkhovuz Velayet      102.4      87.4      97.1      75.9      63.6
Source.-CIS Statistical Cornittee 1995, Radzinsky et al 1994, UNICEF 1995. USAID 1995, and Consultant Ileport



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect                                   Page 75
ANNEX H: DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
A. Background
1.    Three demonstration projects were designed during project identification and included in the nine
month project preparation consultancy (March 1996 - December 1996): (1) a school sanitation, hygiene
and health education project; (2) a community water supply system demonstration, and (3) an artificial
recharge demonstration project.demonstrate and health. Projects #1 and #2 demonstrated community
based approaches to water supply and sanitation. Project #3 was a technical project to demonstrate
artificial recharge of a well field to increase the volume of fresh water available.
2.     Project #3 was dropped from the project preparation consultancy due to lack of interest on the
Government's part - which largely resulted from the recognition that the nine month timeframe was not
sufficient to realize useful results. The Bank agreed with this decision.
3.    The two remaining demonstration projects were carried out from March, 1996 to December,
1996, under the project preparation consultancy with Electrowatt Engineering. Electrowatt sub-contracted
a local NOG, Assistance to Turkmenistan Area (ATTA), for the non-engineering components of the
demonstration projects. Local contractors were engaged for construction.
B. Results
4.     The demonstration projects provided an opportunity to introduce new, community-based
approaches to water supply and sanitation; to assess unforeseen problems in implementing aspects of the
overall Water Supply and Sanitation project (WS&S); to identify of consumer demand, design parameters,
operation and maintenance of the water supply and sanitation systems; to develop community participation
activities for the WS&S systems; to assess needs in health and hygiene education and develop appropriate
education materials; and initiate interaction between water and health sector staff as well as between the
community and local officials. The demonstration projects were designed and conducted in close
collaboration with the work of other NGOs and donors in the water supply and sanitation sector. In
particular, the school sanitation demonstration was developed by UNICEF staff participating in the project
identification mission and was coordinated with the UNICEF ASPERA school water supply and sanitation
project in Dashkhovuz. Thus the school sanitation project served to bring together those working in
WS&S, including ATTA, and to build on one another's efforts.
5.     The demonstration projects were dynamic in nature. Results were evaluated by the community
and stakeholders throughout the project preparation period and adaptations made in the projects. Results
were presented during preparation in several workshops. The workshops served the added purpose of
providing a forum for participatory planning. Final results of the school sanitation and community water
supply system have guided the design of the sanitation and health component and the water supply and
institutional strengthening components of the project, respectively. Additional benefits of the projects
include the strengthening of skills and capabilities of a local NGO, ATTA, which was engaged in
execution of the projects. NGOs are rare in Turkmenistan, and ATTA's involvement in the project
preparation increased its visibility and scope of work.
6.     A brief summary of the demonstration projects is given below. Detailed project descriptions,
health materials produced, and technical drawings can be found in the Projects Documents File,
"Turkmenistan Water Supply and Sanitation Project: Report on Demonstration Projects: Annex to the
Main Feasibility Study Report" December, 1996.



Page 76                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
C. School Sanitation Project (SSP)
7.     The SSP was implemented in one school in the project area, Boldumsaz School #15. The local
community was involved in the school site selection. A project committee was established and included
representatives from local government; local water and health offices; school administration; teachers;
students; and parents.   The project committee along with community representatives and local
administrators attended workshops to learn about school sanitation options and to choose the option most
appropriate for their school. The group chose to substantially rehabilitate and expand a communal pit
latrine. Local competitive bidding was used to select a local contractor for the construction work. The
existing facility was converted into a Ventilated Pit Latrine (VIP) with provision for future conversion
to pour-flush toils. Hand washing basins were installed. Construction was carried out during the summer
montsh when school was not in session. The project committee developed and O&M program for the
new facilities.
8.     The SSP project was designed in a school in order to provide hygiene and health education to
the most receptive audience, children. The Social Needs Assessment, focus group discussions and
observation had made clear that there is no demand for improved sanitation in the region despite the
deplorable (to outsiders) conditions of sanitation facilities. Furthermore, it was clear that both the health
professionals and general population were largely unaware of the linkages between sanitation, hygiene
and health. Therefore, the SSP project was designed to include improved hygiene and health education
activities. Questionnaires were provided to students to assess hygiene and sanitation practices at school
and at home. Based on these results and discussions with health professionals, over summer months,
lessons on san sanitation hygiene and disease transmission were prepared with ATTA staff, teachers, and
health professionals. When school began, a five session teacher training program began to train the
teachers in the hygiene and health curriculum. The new curriculum has now been introduced and will
be part of the 1996-1997 school program. The health education program was closely linked to the new
sanitation facilities.
D. Community Water Supply System:
9.     Few, if any, of the public standpipes in the project area have functioning taps, with the result that
water runs freely from almost every connection during the service periods. Besides the huge wastage of
water, this practice also results in a decrease in pressure and thus a decrease in the service delivery area.
In many places the taps have been broken off. The demonstration project was designed to show the
benefits of strong, durable taps on standpipes with automatic shut-off valves as well as the convenience
of customer access to public standpipes. The technical components were coupled with a public education
program on appropriate use and maintenance of the public standpipes and a community based program
of site selection, standpipe design, and operation and maintenance. Since success of the technical
components of this demonstration rests with the community's safe use and protection of public standpipes,
a health education program was incorporated to present the benefits of safe water gathering and storage
and clean standpipes.
10.   The first step in the demonstration was the assess the water supply system in an etrap center.
Gubadag was chosen by local administrators. A community workshop was conducted in March, 1996,
and included administrators, local water and health officials, teachers, small enterprises, and community
members. The demonstration project concept was presented. It was determined that fourteen new public
standpipes would installed in a concentrated area somewhere in the city to demonstrate the aforementioned
benefits. Electrowatt staff worked with the participants to design an appropriate standpipe with a tap and
automatic shut-off. The participants chose a three block section of town for the site. The need for a



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                    Page 77
community survey on current water use practices was raised ; and a survey agreed upon and conducted
in May, 1996. The benefits of an increased water supply (due to the increased pressure and water
conservation) were quickly identified. Public housing residents said there would be less work carrying
water, more time available for other work, and improved personal hygiene. Single story families
identified the most important benefit as increased property value, improved personal hygiene and a
reduction in illness.
11.   Local competitive bidding was used to engage a local contractor to do the work. Design and
manufacture of the standpipes was done locally with local materials. Selection of the standpipe sites was
done by the residents of the city blocks involved. Construction of the standpipes were completed in July,
1996, and performance evaluation began immediately.  Almost immediately residents on the blocks
involved saw improvements in service delivery. The use of the shut-off valves increased pressure in the
pipes sufficiently to provide water at points not previously functional.  The new design, with
modifications made based on experience, was user friendly. The users of the standpipes evaluated the
performance with forms they had developed.
12.   The project developed health education materials (brochures) with comnmunity input on disease
transmission; use and care of public standpipes; water conservation measures; hygiene practices, e.g.
handwashing. These materials were distributed at all community meetings on the project; during the
survey. Health materials were given to the local public health services and to teachers. Teacher training
was conducted on use and care of standpipes and hygiene education.
13.    Results of performance evaluation were used to modify the design of the standpipes. Overall
results of the project have been incorporated into the design of the water supply component as well.
Health education materials continue to be reproduced and distributed in the commnunity. Results of the
health education activities were used to design the health promotion sub-component of the project.



Level                      __         _
LevelMinistry of Health   -         Ministry of Water Resources
Natonal    ,Ministry of Environment 
iNational                                                                                                         _   on4
Division of Water Supply and Sanitation                          0Sr    Plan0nIn
R"ulatiNaonmntUi
MO 'ntong          Training Center                                    
Regional                            Dashkhovuz Regional Water Supply and Sanitation Authority  -    |oard0f__ Ircto                        0
______________________                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Ml     st ro ftWatrn Res,N
I____    Minister ot Finance
Managing Director |akim,Dasl*iiovuz
Lea               Audi [ePublic Relations                                              vAya            -~ Nf                - 
Retional Appointee -2
_   |                                                  ,~~~~~~~~~~~II  RegionalAppolnteeV-02  
.    I   _____  1    _                        l                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mainaging Director  - ?0 or
Local               Dashkhovuz                   Etrap Ctrs                        Kolkhoz I 
Operational               Vodocanal                   Vodocanal                        Vodocanal                                             r        :
3    Seweragel  IEtrap Ctrs|                        t ~~~~~~~Etraps (8)|                                   %X 
_~~~~~~~                                                                              . _1 Csoe                          I
Local          &Peso                                                                 uau m Engineering  Q [alit
Support      sn--                                                                                              I
___ _______              _____c Futons of Support                                         - _____                                               c
-Acconting             - Employment                - Basic Design         - Laboratories         Complaints .
i- Billing             - Records                   - Planning             - Environmental       - Communications
F -inance              -Training                   - Construction          Concerns
S Stores                                            Managemnent           - Quality Control                                                0
- Purihasing                                       -O&M  Support
- Admin                                                                                                                                    >
n- Iformation
systems
-Vehicles .                                                                                                                                0 O
{        1- ~Transprt                                                                                                                 CCe 
Budget             Provisional Organization Chart for Dashkhovuz Regional Water Supply                                       I
and Sanitation Authority



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                 Page 79
ACTION PLAN FOR ESTABLISHING THE DASKHOVUZ REGIONAL WATER AND
SANITATION AUTHORITY (DRWASA)
I. Components of DRWASA Strengthening
The Institutional Strengthening component of the project will assist in the establishment of the DRWASA
and includes the following sub-components.
A.    Conduct a National Sector Reform Study The first sub-component is to conduct a study, make
recommendations and develop an action plan for making improvements at the national level to strengthen
the capacity in Turkmenistan to provide water and wastewater services more effectively to the country's
4.8 million people. This study is intended to provide the support necessary to accomplish the second
component, the establishment of a regional sector utility in Dashkhovuz.
B.    Assist the GOT in Establishing a New Regional Sector Organization The second sub-component
is to evaluate existing sector capabilities within the velayet, to provide specific commendations and
necessary legislation for the creation of a new regional water and sanitation authority in Dashkhovuz
Velayet, and to assist the government in establishing the new authority.
C.    Strengthen the New Regional Sector Organization   The third sub-component will provide
institutional strengthening of the new authority in order to develop the skills and capabililities within the
authority to meet its responsibilities.
II. Action Category A: Consultant Selection
A consultant will be selected to perform the duties required to achieve the objectives described in the
three categories of institutional strengthening described in Section I, above. The specific tasks, estimated
time schedule and responsibility for engaging a consultant to perform these duties are described below:
No.   Action                             Date                Responsibility
1.    Complete TOR                      30 Jan 1997          Bank
2.    Prepare Long List                   1 March 1997       PIU
3.    Prepare Short List                  1 May 1997         PIU
4.    No Objection from Bank             15 May 1997         Bank
5.    Complete RFP                       1 June 1997         PIU
6.    No Objection from Bank             15 June 1997        Bank
7.    Send RFP to Short-Listed Firms      1 July 1997        PIU
8.    Receive Proposals                   1 September 1997   Consultants
9.    Evaluate/Select Best Proposal      1 October 1997      PIU
10.   No Objection from Bank             15 October 1997     Bank
11.   Complete Negotiations              15 November 1997    PIU/Consultant
12.   Sign Contract                      1 December 1997    PIU/Consultant
13.   No Objection from Bank             15 December 1997    Bank
14.   Consultant Start Date              1 January 1998      Consultant
III. Action Category B: Decisions and Actions by the Govermnent of Turkmenistan
Decisions and actions required by the GOT with reference to the establishment of a new regional sector
authority, referred to below as the Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Sanitation Authority (DRWASA),



Page 80                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
are described as follows:
No.   Action                                   Date                 Responsibility
1.    Agree in principle to establishment      February 1997        GOT
of the DRWASA and later approval
of a legal charter for the organization
2.    Determine whether DRWASA is to           February 1997        GOT
report to the Velayet or a Ministry
3.    Approve Dashkhovuz Velayet as the GOT    February 1997        GOT
agency to whom the Bank loan is to
be made, if the Velayet is the
proposed supervising agency
4.    Agree to provide financial support       February 1997        GOT
for DRWASA
5.    Approve the charter of duties, powers    June 1998            GOT/Velayet
and responsibilities of DRWASA as
recommended by the consultant
6.    Approve the recommendations of           August 1998          GOT
the consultant relative to national
sector reform required to permit
the establishment and support of
the new regional authority
7.    Provide office space for DRWASA          September 1998       GOT/Velayet
8.    Reassign organizations and personnel     October 1998         GOT/Velayet
to DRWASA as proposed in the
consultant's report
Action 1 is expected to be incorporated in principle as an agreement to the obligations of the GOT
relative to the establishment of the new regional sector authority under the Loan Agreement. This
agreement will assume the intent of the GOT to take the necessary steps required to comply with the other
actions described above.
IV. Action Category C: National Sector Reform Study
The specific tasks required under the national sector reform study component of the institutional
strengthening part of the project are described in the terms of reference. The major tasks and estimated
time schedules to complete them are described as follows:
Dates
Task No.     Task Description                                       Start  End
A.           Determine, Describe and Evalute Existing Sector        1/1/98 1/4/98



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect                                 Page 81
Conditions organizations, conditions, laws, financial
and regulatory activities and other factors which effect
the sector at the national level)
B.           Recommend Changes for Sector Strengthening             1/4/98 1/6/98
(with emphasis on required support for a new regional
sector authority in Dashkhovuz)
C.           Prepare Action Plan for National Sector Reform         1/6/98 1/7/98
V. Action Category D: Establish Regional Sector Authority
The specific tasks required under the component of the institutional strengthening part of the project which
relates to the establishment of a new regional sector authority are described in the terms of reference. The
major tasks and estimated time schedules to complete them are described as follows:
Dates
Task No.     Task Description                                              Start    End
A.           Determine, Describe and Evalute Existing Sector Conditions    1/1/98 1/4/98
(organizations, conditions, laws, financial and regulatory
activities and other factors which effect the sector at the
Dashkhovuz Velayet level)
B.           Draft Legislation to Create the New Regional Sector Authority  1/2/98 1/4/98
C.           Prepare Action Plan for Implementation                        1/4/98 1/7/98
(describe specific steps required to transform the existing sector
organizations in Dashkhovuz into the proposed new regional
sector organization, DRWASA)
D.           Provide Assistance to the GOT/Velayet in Implementation       1/7/98 1/1/99
(work with national and local authorities to implement the
activities described in the Action Plan)
VI. Action Category E: Strengthen Regional Sector Authority
The specific tasks required under the component of the institutional strengthening part of the project which
relates to the strengthening of the newly established regional sector authority are described in the terms of
reference. The major tasks and estimated time schedules to complete them are described as follows:
Dates
Task No.     Task Description                                       Start  End
A.           Strengthen Administration & Management Capabilities    1/1/99  1/1/00
B.           Strengthen Technical & O&M Capabilities                1/4/99  1/9/99
C.           Strengthen Finance and Revenue Generation Capabilities  1/5/99 1/1/00
D.           Strengthen Personnel Management Capabilities           1/6/99   1/1/00
E.           Strengthen Quality Control Capabilities                1/7/99 1/1/00



ANNEX J: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1997                 1998         1       1999                  2000                 2001         [        2002
ID  Task Name                                                                   Q4 Q1Q2IQ3IQ4 [QiQQ2 Q3 Q4 Qi02 03 0401                                                4Q|Q34Q3 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3
1    TURKMENISTAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT                                    I               I                                         I
2         PIU ACTIVITIES
3              Establishment and operation of PIU under PPF
4              Operation of PIU under project loan 
5              Appointment of RCC and CCs
6              Appointment of PCC
7              Calls for bids, evaluation & award of PIU consultancy
8              Mobilisation of Consultants and Implementation                                              ___
9              Preparaton of Project Implementation Manual
10              Mid term review
11         LOAN APPROVAL PROCEDURES
12              Negotabon of Project
13               JBBadPeetto  n  Loan Approval
14              Loan Effectiveness
Date: Wed 4/16/97                          Task                                       Milestone                                 Summary                      E            Intermittent task
Page 1



ANNEX J: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
11997               1998                 1999                 2000                2001                 2002
ID  Task Name                                                                Q4 Qi Q  Q2 030 401020341  Q2 0304 |Q  Q23 Q4 01 Q2 03040102 Q3
15         URBAN AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT                                  i_ 
16             Procurement of Contract
17                  Issue prequalification procurement notice
18                  Prepare prequalification package
19                  Issue prequalification package
20                  Prequalification period
21                  Prequalify contractors
22                  Bank approval of prequalification
23                  Issue tender documents for ICB
24                  Tender perod
25                  Tender evaluation
26                  Bank approval of evaluation
27                  Contract finalization and signature
28                  Mobilisatlon
29                  Construction
30                     Defects liability period
Date: Wed 4/16/97                         Task                   __ Milestone                                              Summary                                  Intermittent task i
Page: 2



ANNEX J: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1997                1998                1999                2000                 2001                2002
ID    Task Name                                                             Q4  Q1 I Q2   Q31 Q4   1   Q2  03   Q4Q1   Q2 I        Q3    4  Q   Q2  0 Q3 | Q4  Q1 | Q2 | Q3  04| Q4  Q1 Q2     | 3
31        SANITATION AND HEALTH COMPONENT                                        _ :
32             Prepare tender documents
33             Call for bids, evaluate, award and sign consultancy contract
34             Training
35             Improvement of Rural Sanitation and Hygiene
36                  Foreign technical assistance
37                  Local technical assistance                                                       _                                _____
38                  Prepare tender documents
39                  Call for bids, evaluate, award and sign contract
40                  Rehab latrines and install of handwashing basins
41                  Defects liability perod
42                  Vacuum pits
43                  Study tours
44             Heaith Promotion and Hvqiene EducaUon
45                  Foreign technical assistance
46_                   _      __Local technical assistance                                                                                                                            ---- -
47                  Prepare tender documents
48                  Call for bids, evaluate, award and sign contract
49                  Rehabilitation of Dashkhovuz Cene  f H
50                  Defects liability period
51                  Study tour
52             Water Quality Monitoring. Sanitation and Hygiene Surveillance-
53                 Improve Water Quality Monitorng Svs. & Sanitabon and Hygiene
54                      Foreign technical assistance
Date: Wed 4/16/97                        Task                                    Milestone                               Summary                                 Intermittent task
Page: 3



ANNEX J: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1997                1998                1999                 2000                2001                2002
ID  Task Name                                                               Q4 Q10Q20Q3|Q4 010Q2Q030Q4 1Q2|Q3|04 01 Q2 03 Q4 I01Q20Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
55                      Local technical assistance                                   ._                                                                    _ _       _     __:_ _
56                  Upgrade SES Laboratones.
57                      Foreign technical assistance
68                      Local technical assistance                                                                                                        ___._._                             _
59                      Prepare tender documents
60                      Call for bids, evaluate, award and sign contract
61                      Rehabilitation of laboratories
62                      Defects liability period
63                  Improve data collection etc and Conduct Epidemiological Studies
64                      Foreign technical assistance
65                      Local technical assistance                                                                                                        __._           :     _:1
66                      Study tour
67        INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT                                       .
68             Prepare tender documents
69             Call for bids, evaluation, award and sign contract
70             National Sector Reform Study
71                  Determine, describe and evaluate existing sector conditons
72                  Recommend changes for sector strengthening
73                  Prepare acion plan for nabonal sector reform
74             Establishmrent of the Dashkhovuz Reuional Water and Sanitation A
75                  Determine, describe and evaluate existing sector conditions
76                  Draft legislation to create the new Regional Sector Authority
77                  Prepare action plan for implementation
78                  Provide assistance to the GOT in implementation activities
Date: Wed 4/16/97                        Task                                    Milestone                               Summary                                 Intermittent task
Page: 4



ANNEX J: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1997               1998                1999               2000                2001                2002
ID    Task Name                                                          Q4  I Q   02|304Q1   Q2  Q3 |Q4  Q                2  Q3 Q3      Q2                             3 |Q4  010Q2|03
79             institutional Strencithening of the Regional Authority
80                 Strengthen administration and management capabilities                                            __.____
81                 Strengthen technical and O&M capabilities                                                                -
82                 Strengthen finance and revenue generation capabilities
83                 Strengthen quality controi capabilities                                                                        -
84             Public Awareness Propgram                                                                   _
Date: Wed 4/16/97                       Task                                   Milestone                             Summary                                Intermittent task
Page: 5



ANNEX K DETAILED COST TABLES
Table 1 Expe-dtore Accounts by Components - Total Costs Invctd,ng Cort,brgenctes (USS 000)
Sanitation and Health
Health
ater Supply and Distribution Dashkhovo  Improve Rural Promotion  ater Qity. Monitoring & Hygiene surveillance     Institutional Development to Improve delivery of           Project
Rehabilitation,upgrading               Sanitation &     and       Improve                                                      Water & Sanitation                         Management &
and entension        Assistance     Hygiene      Education    monitor                                                   Establish                                   Implementation
to      Rehabilitation    Health    system for  Upgrade SES       Improve data      National   Regional    Institutional
Urban                   operation    of Latrnes &   Promotion  mater qlty.&  laboraton.s    colleofion,analysis    Sector    Water &    Strengthenng       Public         Establish
centers (7   Rural Farms      of         install      in Rural     hygiene     in Tashau.       & reporting;      Reform    Sanitation    of Regional   Communication        Project
dtraps)   (9 Kolkoses)  facilities    handsinks       Amas   surveillance      Velayet       Epidem. studies     studies    Authonty      Authority        Program      Managemt Unit   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Rehab Water Supply                                     10.353         12,773           -                         -             -                                                                                                      1,178   24,304
Rehab Saitation                                              -             -                        169         59                        236                                                                                            -        464
Subtotal Civil Works                                      10,353        12,773           -            169         59                         236                                                                                        1 178   24.768
B. Equipment
Watersupply&Sandtato,sEquipme,t                              -                      313                         66                         382                               .            -                               - -                     752
Other Equipment                                               -            -                         25         16            28            10                   17         12           35              30               4             134       312
Subtotfa Equipment                                                                    313              25         75            28           391                   17         12           35              30               4             134     1,064
C. Fumiture                                                    -                         -               -        23              -          129                                -                           -               -                       152
D Vehicles                                                                   -           -             18         41           159                                             -           41              53               -              23       335
E. EducationalMaterlal                                                                                  7         14            11             -                   20                       -                                                -       58
F. Technical Assistance
Formgn Consultants                                                                                  225        166           143           123                   82        184          408             962              83           1.276     3.650
Local Conaultants                                                          -                        180        192           240           120                   72                      35              35              10               -       884
Ssdes                                                                                                 -          -             -                                161          -            -               -                                       161
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                            -            405        358           383           243                  315        184          444             997              92           1,276     4.696
G. Training
WorkshopslSeminar                                                          -           -            115        101            21            15                   12                       -               -                -             33       298
Studyours/Felloshp                                                               _                   16         34             -             -                   34                                                                      56       139
SubtOtl Tnining                                                              -                        130        135            21            15                   46          -            -               -                -             89       437
H. Supplies
WS&Sanitabton chem.cais.supples and tools                    -             -        835              57                         -                                                                                                          -      6891
OtSleruSpplies                                               -             -           -               -        20                               -           -                        -                   -                                        20
Subtotal Supplies                                              -             -        835              57         20                                                 -                      -                                                       911
Total lInvestmentCosts                                      10,353        12773        1.147            810        724           602         1.014                  398        196          520           1080              102           2,701    32,421
II. Recurrent Cots
A. Facilies Maintenance                                        -             -                          2           -            -                                        -           -        -                            -                -        2
B. Pesonnel
Higher Ivel staff                                            -                                                                                                                                            -                              87        87
Mkddle evel staff                                            -             -                                                                                                              -                                             166       166
Suppml levet staff                                                               _                                                                                                                                                       27        27
Subtotal Paron  l--                                                                                                - -           -                 -                           -            -                       -                     282       282
C Ofrcespace&operhbons                                         -             -           -             60         20            55            28                   20         11          527                               3             149       874
0 Miscellanous                                                 -                                                   -             -             -                    -         6                            46               -              16       122
Total Recumrnt Costs                                                           -           -             62         20            55            28                   20         17          581              46               3             447    1.280
Tota PROJECTCOSTS                                           10.353        12,773       1 147             872       744           858          1041                  418        212         1,101           1,126             105           3,148    33,701
Taves                                                      1,035         1,277           -             17          6 e                        24                     -                      -.                                                    2 359
Foreign Exchange                                           7,822        98,91        1.147            511        438           348           800                  318        197          485           1,054              93           2.328    25.232
Page 87



ANNEX K DETAILED COST TABLES
Table 2 EXerid-ure Acco_nts by Components - Base Costs (USS$000)
Sanrittion and Health
i1Cr Supply and Distribuion  ahkhovo  Improw Rural Prmotnion  at.r Qlty. Monitonng & Hygiene urooillance          Institolional Dewlopment to Improe delivery of             Project
Rehabilitation,upgrading               Sanitation 11    and       Improw                                                       Water & Sanitation                        Management A
and eltnsion         A.Sistina.     Hygiene      Eduration    monitor                                                   Establish                                  Impltnbation
to      Rehabilitation    Health    system for  Upgrde SES       Improv data        National   Regiona1    Institutional
Urban                   opernion    of Latine &   Promotion  water qty    abolrbories   coltltion.analymio    Sector    Waler     Strengthening            Public        Egublish                   Physical
cantara f7   Rural Fre-S     of          inelall      in Rural    hygiene      in Tash t-       & reporting;      Refonm    Snitation    o0 Regional   Conmmnicatlon        Project                Contingencies
etrapeL    (S Kolkoen)  facilitie.    hand.ink.       Amn.    sur,eillance     VLbyet        Epidem. tdiec      studies    Authority      Authority       Program      Mnaganit Uni    Total       %    Amunt
1. Invlnnt Co
A. Civil Works
RehabWalerSupply                                        8,173         10,463                                                                            1                                                                             1.134   20,270     142    2,870
RehabSanitation                                              ,             -                        142         i0             ,          200                                                            -               -               -       392     15.0      59
Subtota Civill Wo0ks                                       8.873        10,463          -             142         50             ,          200                     -                                                                  1,134    20.it2     14.2   2.929
B. Equipetnt
Waler supply & Sanitalon Equipment                                         -        250               -         49                        325                                -                                                                   024     15.0      94
Other Eq,opment                                                                                      21         15           24             8                   is         10           30              20               4             112       265     100       40
Subtotal Equipma n                                                                    250              21         04           24           333                   Is         10           30              26               4             113       890    15.0       133
C Futnitune                                                                             -                          0             -          110                                             -               -                               ,      130     15.0      20
D Vehices                                                                    -          -                         35           135                                                        3S              45                -             20       285     10.0      43
E.Edadt A        ultl                                                                                   6         12            10                                 is                     3                                               20        51      5.0        3
F. Techn"l Asilance
F-nignConsualaots                                                                                   220        1i00         140           120                   s0        180          400             920              80            1,240    3,540
LoeaItConsultants                                                                                     O 180    1'2          240           120                   72           -          35              35              10               .       884
Studies                                                      -             -          .               -          -             -            -                  150           -                           -                -              -       iWO                 -
Subtoble Technical Assiance                                                  -                        400        352           380           240                  302       180          435             59S              90            E.240     4.574
G. Training
Wotknhops/Semtnar                                                                                   102         90            19            13                   11                                                       -             30       265      100       27
Study Tootr./Felloeship                                                                              14         30                                              30                                                                      50       124      10.0      12
Sub4toe Tramining                                                                                     116       1io             19            13                  41                                                                      80       389      10.0     329
H. Supplis
WS&SAeinattini chleeici.K.oPplien and boB -s                                       750              55                                                                                                   -                               -       D00      50       40
SubtoalSuppan                                                  .                      750              50         1s                                                                                                        -18                              s0        1
ToW alluilmnent Cost                                         8,673        10.443       1,000            751        671           008          896                  37b        190          500            1.026             99            2,587   27799       11.5   3.207
H. Recurrent Coale
A FaditesMaintenne                                                                                      2          -             .tenr.-                                                                                    -               -        2       s.        0
B. Peneonn.i
H.Qaer byel Sbf f                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 7       87
mit krie staff                                                            ,                                                                                                                                                            168       168
S.ppotleie al gf                                                          .                                                                                                                              .                              27        27
Solilolel Paroonnal                                                                                                                              .               .             202       202~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28  5
C Office space S perabons                                                                              58         1S            53           20                    19        11          502                               3             142       832      50        42
DbMisellaneous                                                                                         SS;                                                                    5           52              43                              15       115      54         6
Tn.W Racoo'enCoal                                                .                                      05         I9            33)          20                   1.9        is          554              413              3            .639      1,231     .3 9      46
To.ud BASEUNE COSTS                                          8,673        10,463       1.000            010        600           621           923                  395        206        1.054           1,069             101           3,020    29.030     11 .2   3,255
PhysicalConlingencas                                       1,301         1,569         75              44         40            29           99                     a         3           37              13               1              36      3.255
Pdri Concigecles                                            379           741          72              1S         14             a           10                    is         4           10              44               3             0       1,419      11.2     159
Total PRtJECT COSTS                                         10,352        12.773       1 147            072       7744           658         1,041                  418        212        1.101           1.12'             105           3.148    33.701     10.1   3.413
Tae                                                        1,035         1,277                         17          6                         24                     .          .            .                                                     2.359     13.0     369
Fow.W EXchane                                              7.822        9.691        1,147            511        438           348          800                  318        197          485            1,054             93            2,328    25.232     10.3   2,598
Page b8



ANNEX K: DETAILED COST TABLES
Table 3 Project Cost Sumary by Components - (US$ '000s)
%     % Total
(Manat'000)                        (USS 000)           Foreign   Base
Local       Foreign         Total      Local  Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Water Supply and Distribution Dashkhovouz
1. Rehabilitation,upgrading and extension
Urban centers (7 etraps)                                                         10,190,433    30,571,300    40,761,734    2,168    6,505    8,673       75       30
Rural Farms (9 Kolkoses)                                                         12,293,978    36,881,934    49,175,912   2,616    7,847   10.463        75       36
Subtotal Rehabilitation,upgrading and extension                                    22,484,411    67,453,234    89,937,646    4,784    14,352    19,136     75       66
2. Assistance to operation of facilities                                                   -      4,700,000     4,700,000       -    1,000    1,000       100        3
Subtotal Water Supply and Distribution Dashkhovouz                                   22,484,411    72,153,234     94,637,646   4,784    15,352   20,136      76       69
B. Sanitation and Health
1. Improve Rural Sanitation & Hygiene
Rehabilitation of Latrines & install handsinks                                    1,624,795     2,181,171      3,805,966    346      464       810        57       3
2. Health Promotion and Education
Health Promotion in Rural Areas                                                   1,391,670     1,852,270      3,243,940    296       394      690        57       2
3. Water Qlty. Monitoring & Hygiene surveillance
Improve monitorsystem forwaterqlty.& hygiene surveillance                         1,438,670     1,479,090      2,917,760    306       315      621        51       2
Upgrade SES laboratories in Tashauz Velayet                                       1,069,908     3,267,252      4,337,160    228       695      923        75       3
Improve data collection,analysis & reporting; Epidem. studies                      464,830      1,390,260      1,855,090     99       296      395        75       1
Subtotal Water Qlty. Monitoring & Hygiene surveillance                              2,973,408     6,136,602      9,110,010    633     1,306     1,938       67       7
Subtotal Sanitation and Health                                                        5,989,873    10,170,043     16,159,916    1,274    2,164    3,438       63      12
C. Institutional Development to Improve delivery of Water & Sanitation
1. National Sector Reform studies                                                     68,432        897,700       966,132      15       191      206       93        1
2. Establish Regional Water & Sanitation Authority                                  2,767,360     2,185,500      4,952,860    589       465     1,054       44       4
3. Institutional Strengthening of Regional Authority                                 327,120      4,695,770      5,022,890     70       999     1,069       93       4
4. Public Communication Program                                                        58,656       417,830       476,486      12        89      101        88       -
Subtotal Institutional Development to Improve delivery of Water & Sanitation          3,221,568     8,196,800     11,418,368    685     1,744    2,429        72       8
D. Project Management & Implementation
1. Establish Project Managemt Unit                                                  3,805,120    10,417,832     14,222,952    810    2,217    3,026        73       10
Subtotal Project Management & Implementation                                          3,805,120    10,417,832     14,222,952    810    2,217     3,026        73      10
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                 35,500,972    100,937,910    136,438,882    7,553   21,476   29,030      74     100
Physical Contingencies                                                              3,770,087    11,528,885     15,298,972    802    2,453      3,255       75      11
Price Contingencies                                                                  532,565      6,123,216     6,655,780     113    1,303      1,416       92       5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                  39,803,624    118,590,011    158,393,634    8,469    25,232    33,701    75     116
Page 89



Page 90                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
ANNEX L: ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
A. Project Impact and Envirornental Rating
1.    The Turkmenistan Water Supply and Sanitation Project is designed to improve the health and quality
of life of the target population by providing safe and adequate supplies of drinking water and improve
sanitation. Approximately 108,000 people living in the seven Etrap centers and 82,000 in nine collective
farms (including 62,000 new consumers) would benefit from improved water supplies. The project is
expected to have a positive impact on public health while maintaining or improving quality and quantity of
regional water resources. Rehabilitation of disinfection systems; leak repair; improved sanitation facilities;
and increased water delivery periods would reduce levels of bacteriological contamination in the drinking
water supplies. Technical improvements to the distribution system including leak repair and the provision
of automatic shut-off valves on public standpipes combined with public awareness and education efforts
would promote water conservation. Improvements to the water quality laboratories and training would
improve the region's water quality monitoring capabilities.
2.    The project has been assigned a Category 'B' rating.  Project activities involve primarily
rehabilitation and small expansions of the existing well fields, pipelines, and treatment facilities. No
resettlement or property rights issues would be raised since the project focuses on rehabilitation of existing
facilities. All works would be executed either within the premises of existing facilities, existing public streets
or publicly owned property. The project will not affect any archeological or historical sites. Under the terms
of the bidding documents, the contractors would be responsible for keeping worksites pollution free,
returning sites to their original condition, and minimizing dust, noise or other work-related nuisances.
Contractors would be responsible for notification to authorities of the discovery of any previously unknown
archeological or historic sites, and the suspension of work until decisions are taken concerning necessary
steps to protect such sites. The project will have no impact on the flow regime or quality of water in the
Amu Darya River, and therefore does not require notification for the purposes of OD.7.50.
B. Project Background and Environmental Issues
3.     Surface Water Resources. The study area is arid and is located in the lower plain of one of the Amu
Darya river, a flat plain gently sloping westwards towards the Sarykamish lake. The essentially agricultural
plain is marked by a dense network of irrigation and drainage canals. There are five large-scale irrigation
systems all taking origin from the Amu Darya. The main canals are: Shavat, Gazavat, Klychbay,
Dzumabaysana and Soviet Yab (now Kazak Yab). The latter excepted, the remaining four canals cross
Khorezm, an agricultural area in Uzbekistan, and receive the region's agricultural, industrial and municipal
effluents. The drainage of the irrigation water is conveyed into four large collector canals: Chagat, Atabent,
Ozemy, Daryalyk and the main Kunya Urgench. The collector main follows the trace of a fossil river bed
of the Amu Darya river and conveys the drained water into the Sarakamysh basin, a 40 meter deep
depression. The system has been in operation for thirty years and has created the present Sarakamysh lake
which has a total a surface of 3,000 km2.
4.     Groundwater Resources. Geologically, the Dashkhovuz area is a sedimentary basin formerly
occupied by a Neogene sea, constituted by a Triassic basement overlain by mesozoic-cenozoic deposits.
Neogene deposits with interspersed recent quaternary alluvia constitute a widespread shallower formation.
In general terms, shallow bearing deposits exist in the upper 20 to 30 m thick series of Neogene-Quaternary
sediments. These are underlain by a 90 to 120 m thick sequence of paleogene clays, acting as a regional
impermeable substratum to the shallower water bearing sediments. The shallow groundwater in the
Dashkhovuz Plain is generally highly mineralized, with total salinity between 15 and 30 g/l and generally



Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project                                    Page 91
increasing towards the depth.
5.     Piped Water Supply Systems. Recharge of the shallow aquifer occurs essentially through seepage
from the irrigation canals. Shallow aquifer lenses along the canals benefit by recharge of relatively fresh
water (salinity < 1.5 g/l) from the canals. In comparison with the quality of the regional ground water
system, and the surface water, this system provides a relatively fresh water supply for the region. The
infiltrated canal water forms lenses of fresh water reaching a maximum thickness of 20-30 m beneath the
canal and becoming thinner progressively at perpendicular distances from the canal. The piped water supply
systems for both the etrap centers and the collective farms in the study use shallow wells adjacent to, and
as described above hydraulically linked, with an irrigation canal as the water source. These wells are
typically 10-25 m deep, and between 4 and 12 are provided for each system. Operation of the well fields
often does not follow well field rules recommended by hydrogeologist (due to malfunctioning equipment).
This may lead to a disruption in the design flow regime and increases the chances of drawing water of
relatively poor quality.
6.     Sanitation. Pit latrines are the only form of sanitation practiced in the project area. Although
household sanitation coverage is almost universal, the facilities are often in very poor condition and hygiene
is poor.
C. Project Activities and Impacts
7.     Piped Water Supply Systems. The project will rehabilitate and expand piped water system to seven
etrap centers and nine collective farms and provide a supply of spare parts and repair materials. The project
would repair existing street standpipes and provide new taps as required to provide space of about 70 m
between taps. The existing well fields will be rehabilitee and new borehole pumps and control installed.
Chlorination systems would be installed. The major environmental concern related to this component is the
impact on groundwater resources. Improvement to the wellfields would reduce water wastage and improve
water quality. In the seven Etrap centers the increase of the per capita water service would be achieved
through improvement of the distribution system and consequent reduction of the water losses. The need of
groundwater production will only slightly increase from the present 6,331 m3/day to 6,482 m3/day and
would have no consequence in the groundwater balance of the wellfields. In the ten collective farms, the
production of groundwater will increase from the present 155 m3/day serving 15,793 rural population to
2,461 m3/day for the needs of the rural population. The groundwater production potentials of the near-canal
groundwater bearing lenses identified on the basis of hydrogeological investigations and from inventory of
existing and programmed wells (as documented in the project feasibility report) appear in all cases large
enough to satisfy the required present and projected quantities of groundwater to be produced (Table 1).
Thus the induced recharge to the aquifer lenses from the canals is large enough to sustain increased
groundwater withdrawal projected at the horizon 2001 and there will be no impact on the hydrodynamic
equilibrium of the aquifers.



Page 92                                        Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Table 1: Groundwater Resources: Production and Potential
Etrap Centers
Name            Production m3/d      Groundwater
1996     2001      Potential (m3/d)
Akdepe                     968     1,022             7,500
Boldumsaz                1,340     1,077              3,000
Gubadagh                   518       588              1,600
Kunya-Urgench              864     1,361             34,500
Niyazovsk                  691       610              7,400
Tagta                      622       720              1,600
Yilanly                  1,328     1,104              3,100
Collective Farms
Ersarieva/AKD               26       525             3,200
On Yl Abadanlik/BLD         29       166             2,500
Bereket/GBD                 26       402             3,100
Maslahat/KNU                20       332
Shodlik/NYZ                 25       376              1,550
Magtymguly/TGT              -        196              2,800
Andalip/YLN                 29       464             12,960
Kirk-Giz/KNU                32       151              1,944
Darjalik/KNU                -        131              1,032
8.     Wastewater. Upon implementation of the water supply component of this project in the year 2001,
74% of the present population of the seven Etrap centers and 85% of the inhabitants of the ten collective
farms would have access to water supply delivered by standpipes at very accessible distance for each
household. Each Etrap center and rural inhabitant will have access to 48 and 26 I/day respectively. This
means 274 and 148 I/household per day in the urban and rural areas respectively. A large percentage of this
will become wastewater. The wastewater would result mostly from washing and other various household
activities. Currently, sullage is disposed of by putting it in a pit in the yard or reuse for gardens. Since the
project is not providing yard or household connections, and standpipe wastage would be reduced by use of
automatic valves, the project keeps any negative impact of wastewater at a minimum. Considering the large
spaces available and the arid climate, the current methods of wastewater disposal should continue to be
effective. Obviously, in the longer term, as households move towards house connections and flush toilets,
the wastewater disposal issue would need to be addressed.
9.     Sanitation. The project would involve rehabilitation of pit latrines and installation of hand washing



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                  Page 93
facilities at schools and markets. The schools selected would be in villages receiving improved water supply
systems and the markets in the etrap centers, all of which are receiving improved water supply systems.
This component addresses the most urgent needs of unsanitary facilities and poor hygiene in communal
facilities and is not likely to have any adverse environmental impacts. As part of this component, water
quality monitoring and testing equipment, and training, would be provided to laboratories in each of the
etrap centers thus enhancing the regional water quality surveillance program. Health education activities
would complement the sanitation component and are an integral element of the overall strategy for improving
public health. No adverse impacts are likely to occur from these activities.
D. Overall Environmental Impact
10.   The overall impact of the project would be to provide an additional 108,000 urban and 82,000 rural
consumers with improved water supplies. The entire population of the velayet, 950,000, is expected to
benefit from the health and hygiene education program to the extent that this program has an impact on
changing hygiene practices and on health, especially among children. Both urban and rural populations
would benefit from improved sanitation at schools and markets. While providing better water supply and
sanitation facilities, the project would also strengthen management of the water sector by establishing a
regional water and wastewater authority in Dashkhovuz and strengthening management capabilities of the
new authority.
11.   Overall the project is envisaged to contribute substantially to the improvement of public health and
quality of life in the project area with no adverse environmental impacts.



Page 94                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
ANNEX M: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
A. Project Implementation Unit
1.    A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is being established in the MWR for the duration of the project.
The PIU would have overall project responsibility for coordination of project activities. In addition, it would
have responsibility for common implementation functions such as project accounting, procurement,
disbursements, consolidation of annual wok programs and budgets, and quarterly and annual progress reports.
The PIU would also provide training and technical assistance coordination, project supervision, and assistance
to the Regional Component Coordinator (RC) and other Component Coordinators (CCs). The PIU would
serve as the primary contact with Government agencies, the Bank, other donors, NGOs and others.
Construction management including supervisors and construction specialists will located within the PIU. The
detailed responsibilities and activity plans for the PIU are outlined below.
General Functions of the PIU
2.     The general functions of the PIU would be:
(a)    Administration
(b)    Project Planning
(c)    Operating Procedure Development
(d)    Implementation Oversight and Coordination
(e)    Procurement and Disbursement Functions; and
(f)    Training and Technical Assistance Coordinalion
Specific PIU Responsibilities
3.     The following specific activities would be performed by the PIU:
(a)    Comply with directives of the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) and coordination of
all activities needed for project execution. The PIU would serve as the Secretariat for the
PCC.
(b)    Prepare a Project Implementation Manual (PIM) summarizing procedures for monitoring
project implementation; processing of withdrawal applications; use of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs), and overall project funds; replenishment of the special and project
accounts; and methods of procurement to be followed under the project as per the Loan
Agreement. The PIM would include sample forms of contracts and withdrawal applications.
(c)    Assist in coordination between the Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Health, Ministry
of Education, Dashkhovuz Velayat and participating etraps' administrations to ensure a
consistent approach in project implementation.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                        Page 95
(d)    Provide the technical, administrative and logistical assistance necessary to the implementing
agencies.
(e)    Prepare Terms of Reference, recruit, train PIU local staff in overall project management and
administration and procurement and disbursement procedures.
(f)    Prepare Terms of Reference, hire under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and
supervise the extemal technical assistance who would assist the PIU in carrying out its
responsibilities in supervising and assisting the implementation of project components.
(g)    Assist and supervise project activities of the Ministry of Water Resources and Ministry of
Health and local administrations responsible for implementation with the preparation of
bidding documents, procurement specifications, evaluation of bid proposals, negotiation of
terms, and drafting of contracts between the suppliers and the project component units.
(h)    Review and approve the final project-related contracts for final approval by the Bank prior
to contract signature.
(i)    Ensure that works, equipment, training and studies under execution are consistent with the
requirements of the Implementation Plans for each component.
(j)    Develop and implement a simple but effective financial administration system for the project
which would include procedures and controls to accurately account for loan disbursement and
counterpart funds to enable adequate monitoring and control of project activities.
(k)    Maintain accounts and records in a manner that can be reviewed by Bank supervision staff
and extemal auditors.
(I)    Manage Special Account, including compiling supporting documentation necessary to
replenish the special account, and ensure timeliness of disbursements to contractors/suppliers.
(m)    Prepare consolidated quarterly and annual progress reports and annual work programs and
budgets.
Specific Construction Supervision Responsibilities
4.     During construction, the Construction Engineers will be responsible for field supervision of the
construction work by the contractors. He/she will be expected to utilize staff from existing organizations
within the project area that in the past have had responsibility for construction supervision, but should allow
for training of such staff in the methods, procedures, and standards expected from site supervision by the
Bank prior to commencement of work on site. Short term foreign construction specialists will provide
additional assistance. The two construction supervisors tasks will include but necessarily be limited to:
(a)    Preparation of a detailed construction management plan including an environmental
management plan, schedules for construction, bidding, financing including
disbursement of the proceeds of the loan and budget appropriation by the GoT, final
testing, commissioning and start-up of all project facilities;
(b)     Monitor the delivery and secure storage of materials and equipment;



Page 96                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(c)    Review shop drawings prepared by the contractors and equipment manufacturers and
suppliers;
(d)    Monitor the contractors' topographic surveys and setting out of the works to ensure correct
alignments and elevations of the facilities;
(e)    Inspect materials and equipment delivered to site and witness tests of materials and equipment
to be incorporated into the works, if necessary at the manufacturers' premises;
(f)    Supervise, inspect, measure and control the quality of the construction of the works and the
installation of equipment to ensure compliance with the drawings and specifications;
(g)    Review the contractors safety and environmental protection plans and supervise the
implementation of all safety and environmental protection measures;
(h)    Maintain records of progress of the works and the results of inspections and test of materials
and equipment, and all construction related activities;
(i)    Issue instructions to the contractors and equipment suppliers in connection with the
construction of the works and in accordance with the contract documents;
(j)    Make recommendations and issue instructions, with the approval of the PIU to contractors
on the extent of special inspections and testing required and to be carried out in connection with the
construction of the works;
(k)    Compare actual progress with scheduled progress and advise the PIU of any developments
that could delay completion. Recommend any actions necessary by the contractor or the GoT to
facilitate timely completion of construction;
(1)    Record any change or previously unknown conditions that may require modifications to the
design and/or specifications of the works, advise the PIU of the change, and recommend appropriate
action; prepare any necessary work orders with the approval of the PIU;
(m)   Convene and attend monthly meetings with the contractor to review progress; prepare minutes
of such meetings for general circulation;
(n)    Check, agree with the contractors and authorize interim  payments for all contracts in
accordance with the contract: evaluate claims by the contractor for additional payments and
extensions of time and make appropriate recommendations to the GoT;
(o)    Provide independent advice to the PIU in the resolution of disputes between the GoT on one
hand and contractors and/or suppliers on the other;
(p)    Provide advice and suggestions to the PIU on the overall construction works, and attend
meetings concerning project implementation as and when required by GoT;
(q)    Prepare monthly progress reports for the PIUJ summarizing construction progress and
the status of expenditure on the works;
(r)    Supervise final pressure tests of the major pipelines, and of all equipment start-up and
commissioning. Inspect and approve all completed works and check contractors completed or as-built



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect                                      Page 97
schedules of quantities. Make recommendations to the PIU on the issuance of the certificate of
completion; and
(s)    Ensure that on completion of the works that the contractors provide such records and
manufacturer's manuals that are necessary for the operation and maintenance of the works. Check
the contractor's as-built drawings and compile a scheme specific operating manual for each project,
including design philosophy and criteria, materials specifications, scheme layout and as-built drawings
and individual plant operating manuals.
B. PIU Organization and Staffing
5.            The PIU would be headed by a Director with demonstrated management ability and vested
with a sufficient level of authority to enable him/her to carry out the responsibilities of the PIU at the
ministerial level and act as project spokesperson in relations between the Ministries, the Bank and other
donors.
6.            The Director would be assisted by a number of professional foreign and local staff and
administrative/support staff assigned to the PIU (para 6). The PIU would perform the following functions.
(a)    Director.  The Director would be responsible for the technical and administrative
management and leadership of the project. He/she would report to the Deputy Minister of
Water Resources, responsible for Construction and Operations.
(b)    Project Planning and Control Function. Within the PIU there would be a functional
activity to prepare and maintain the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). In addition, the
Project Planning and Control Function would provide ongoing support to the PIU Director
in evaluating progress in the implementation of each component against activity and financial
plans, and preparing revised plans that reflect project progress and revised strategies for
effective use of project resources..
(c)    Procurement Function. Within the PIU there would be a functional activity to coordinate
all the procurement under the project. Specifically, it would provide assistance, advice, and
supervision to the implementing agencies with regard to the procurement of civil works,
equipment and related services, and recruitment of consultants.
(c)    Finance and Accounting Function. Within the PIU there would be a functional activity to
establish a financial management system, prepare and maintain project detailed and summary
accounting and financial records and reports, including disbursement-related records.
7.            Staffing. The PIU would be staffed by local staff and external advisors, and construction
supervision foreign staff, as follows:
*      PIU Director - Engineer (local)
*      Economist/Planner (local)
*      Health Specialist (local)
*      Accountant/Disbursement (local)
*      Procurement Specialist (local)
*      Project Management Specialist - Long-term (foreign)
*      Procurement Specialist - Long-term (foreign)
*      Computer Specialist - Short Term (foreign)
*      Financial Management Specialist - Short-term (foreign)



Page 98                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
*      Interpreter/translator (local)
*      Bilingual Secretary (local)
*      Construction Engineer (Supervisors - 2 positions: foreign)
*      Construction Specialists - Short-term (foreign)
8.            Critical activities of the PIU are included in the Project Implementation Plan (Annex J).
Achievements objectives for the PIU are included in Performance Monitoring Indicators (Annex 0).
C. Budget
9.           Initial PIU organization and start-up funding would be provided through a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF). The initial funding would be US$ 430,000 and would cover the cost of technical assistance
(Project Management Specialist (10 months), Procurement Specialist (9 months) and Financial Management
Specialist (3 months) -- all foreign); the PIU Director, the Regional Coordinator, and other local staff
(Economist, Accountant, Interpreter/Translator, and a Secretary - 12 months each); equipment training of
staff, and incremental recurrent costs.
10.          For Project Management and Implementation, the loan would provide an additional US$ 1.9
million over the years to finance consulting services in project management, procurement, and financial
management, local staff, training, equipment, and incremental recurrent costs. Construction Supervision
would receive and additional US $1.2 million for foreign staff, training, and equipment.
D. Record Keeping, Reporting and Evaluation
11.          PIU Record Keeping. The PIU would maintain records and accounts of all financial
transactions made with contractors, suppliers, and consulting firms. In addition, it would maintain records
of all project related reports prepared during the life of the project.
12.          Project Reporting. The PIU would prepare quarterly and annual progress reports on each
component and the overall project.  These reports would be prepared with inputs from the specific
implementing agency. The PIU would only consolidate the reports and prepare a summary of main findings
and recommendations (para 3.10). Reports would be submitted to the Bank.
13.          Project Component Monitoring and Reporting. Monitoring would be carried out in five
main areas: (a) the procurement and physical delivery of goods and construction contracts; (b) the physical
implementation of project activities; (c) the impact on service delivery; (d) the financial management and
control of project funds; and (e) the capacity building under the project. A systematic assessment would be
carried out in the context of the Project Implementation Plan (Annex ...), Performance Monitoring Indicators,
and, more specifically, the annual work programs. The indicators would be specifically indicated in the work
programs and then be reported in the quarterly and annual reports along with the basic financial infornation.
E. Financial Management and Accounting Control
14.          Chart of Accounts. The project financial accounting transactions and reports would use a
Chart of Accounts which would be maintained through regular posting of transaction detail and monthly
development of trial balances for all accounts.
15.           Financial Status Reports. The PIU Accounting Function would prepare a Project Financial
Status Summary each month by the 20th of the subsequent month to keep the PIU Director infonned of the



Turkmenistan: Water SuI2p1v and Sanitation Project                                       Page 99
status of accounts and progress against spending plans of the project. These financial reports would then be
consolidated and presented as part of the quarterly progress reports.
16.           Auditing and Control of Project Accounts. Annually, the project accounting and financial
records must be subjected to an independent audit by a certified professional auditing firm. To maintain
control of project assets such as capital equipment, the project would establish and maintain a system of
equipment and property control which provides for allocation of formal responsibility for all project-related
items through signed personal responsibility vouchers.



Ministry of Finace |      Ministry of          Ministry of Water        Ministry of       Mnistry of Helthl
and Economy              Education              Resources            Environment         M
Project Coordination Committee l
Project Management Unit
Director (Local)
- Foreign Stiff      Local Staff
Project Mgt Specialist      Economist/Planner      e
Procurement specialist     AccountantUDisbur'sement expert 
Financial Mgt. Specialist     Health Specialist
Computer Specialist       Procurement Specialist
As h g a bat            Construction Engineers       Interpretor/Translator
- _ .._   __-- .             Bilingual Secretary
1~~~~~~~~~~~x      --- - '-----__                 -- ~---        --                                         - It 
Dashkhovuz    I DashkhovuzVelayet  _0
Component               PMU Regional                    Two Component        _           Z
Coordinator     r        Coordinator                     Coordinator (*)
Contract 1                                Institutional
MVR         Construction                                Contract 2   Health and Sanitation    Contract 3
Management               Strengthening      MWR            Component        MOH
Component                Component                            >I                 I 
I~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                  ;H 
Contract for Construction
Contract    nofater supply                                          Included under Contract for Project
MWR           Improvements                                         Management                                  3
I |                               (*) 1. Sanitary and Epidemiological   I      >         3
Services                       |]        >o
2. Center of Health
Organization Chart for Project Management and Implementation



Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project                                  Page 101
ANNEX N: SUPERVISION PLAN
Mission 1   Character of                      Mission Staffing                    Staff
Dates         Mission      |                                                    Weeks
07/97    Project Launching    Task Manager                                         3
Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  3
Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                  3
Public Health Specialist                              3
Procurement/Disbursement Specialist                   3
10/97    First Supervision  Task Manager                                          3
Mission (after      Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  2
Effectiveness)      Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                  2
Public Health Specialist                              2
Procurement/Disbursement Specialist                   2
02/98    Second Supervision   Task Manager                                         3
Mission             Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  2
Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                  2
Public Health Specialist                              2
Procurement/Disbursement Specialist                   2
FY98                                                                              37
07/98    Third Supervision    Task Manager                                         3
Mission             Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  2
Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                  2
Public Health Specialist                              2
01/99    Fourth Supervision   Task Manager                                         3
Mission             Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  2
Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                  2
Public Health Specialist                              2
FY99                                                                              18
07/00    Fifth Supervision  Task Manager                                           3
Mission (mid-term    Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  2
review)             Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                  2
Public Health Specialist                              2
01/01    Sixth Supervision    Task Manager                                         3
Mission (to review    Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  2
action plan         Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                  2
following mid-term   Public Health Specialist                             2
review)
FY00  I                                                                           18



Page 102                                    Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
07/01    Seventh            Task Manager                                         3
Supervision        Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  2
Mission            Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                 2
Public Health Specialist                             2
01/02   Eighth Supervision   Task Manager                                        3
Mission            Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  2
Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                 2
Public Health Specialist                             2
FY01                                                                            18
07/02   Ninth Supervision    Task Manager                                        3
Mission            Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  2
Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                 2
Public Health Specialist                             2
01/03   Last Supervision    Task Manager                                         3
Mission prior to   Financial Analyst/Institutional Development Specialist  2
PCR                Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer                 2
Public Health Specialist                             2
FY02                                                                            18
TOTAL                                                                            109



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                                 Page 1J
ANNEX 0: PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Objective                              Indicators                        Means of Verification
Project Development Objectives:         ___
L improve water supply and sanitation in  *   % of population served by water    *   Quarterly Reports
seven etrap centers and nine collective        supply system
farms in Dashkhovuz Velayet               *   number of borehole pumps           *   Bank Supervision Reports
operational/replaced/repaired per
month
*   number of hours increased in the
duration of water supplied
*   % of water quality samples         *   Water quality data provided to SES
meeting bacteriological water
quality standards
*   decrease in the incidence of water    *   SES morbidity and mortality
borne diseases particularly            quarterly statistics.
diarrheal diseases, subdivided by
sex and age.
Socio-economic impact indicators
*   timespent collecting water (hours)
*   % of households within 50m of
public standpipes
2. initiate institutional changes in the water    *   establishment of Dashkhovuz  *   Quarterly Reports
and sanitation sectors to ensure that the      Regional Water and Sanitation    *   Bank Supervision Reports
project is financially and technically         Authority by December, 1998      *   Regional Water Authority Records
sustainable                               *   Completion and discussion of the    *   Presidential Decrees, National
National Water and Wastewater         Sector Study Report
study by December, 1998
*   Initiation of water charges for cost   *   Water tariffs
recovery for Operation and
Maintenance (as systems come on
line)
Project Components:
The proposed project comprises four main
components:
1. Water Supply Improvements              *   kms of transmission mains          *   Contractors' records
rehabilitated
*   number of wells rehabilitated      *   Quarterly Reports
*   number of pumping stations
rehabilitated                     *   Bank Supervision Reports
*   kms of distribution pipework
rehabilitated                     *   Regional Water Authority Records
*   number of new standpipes
installed
*   number of standpipes rehabilitated
*   number of storage reservoirs
rehabilitated
*   number of chlorination systems
installed
2. Sanitation and Health                  *   number of staff trained            *    Statistics compiled by SES
*   water quality surveillance   *   Epidemiological studies
*   sanitation and hygiene       *   Quarterly Reports
surveillance                 *   Bank Supervision Reports
*   water quality monitoring     *   SES records
and test procedures
*   epidemiological methods



Page  104                                                 Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
*   number of workshops
*   water quality surveillance
*   sanitation and hygiene
surveillance
*   water quality laboratory
training
*   epidemiological methods
A. Improvement of Rural Sanitation and   *   number of latrines rehabilitated in  *   Contractors' records
Hygiene                                      schools/markets                     *   Quarterly Reports
*   number of handwashing basins        *   Bank Supervision Reports
installed                          *   SES and Center of Health records
B. Health and Hygiene Education          *   % of population receiving health    *   Quarterly Reports
education                          *   Center of Health records
*   number of Dashkhovuz Center of     *   Bank Supervision Reports
Health staff trained
*   number of workshops organized
C. Water Quality Monitoring and          *   number of labs refurbished          *   Quarterly Reports
Sanitation and Hygiene Surveillance      *   number of epidemiological studies    *   SES reports
conducted                          *   Bank Supervision Reports
3. Institutional Strengthening           *   Action plan for National sector    *   Regional Water Authority Records
Strength completed                 *   Quarterly Reports
*   Following Establishment of         *   Bank Supervision Reports
DRWASA policies and procedures
adopted
*   Computer technical support center
established
*   Number of staff trained
*   computer technical support
side skills
*   operation and maintenance
skills
*   technical and management
skills
*   MIS established
*   Internal Audit Office established
*   Public Relations office established
*   Customer Service office opened
*   % population covered by campaign    *   Quarterly Reports
messages: leaflets, press, radio,
television, etc.
*   % population reporting positive    *   KAP Surveys
attitudes and practices before and
after campaign regarding
*   water conservation
*   cost-recovery
*   safe use of water
*   participation of the
population in system
operation and maintenance
4. Project Management and Construction   *   MIS                                *  Quarterly Reports
Supervision                              *   Annual Audit                       *  Bank Supervision Reports
*   Office Staff Hired
*   Office Established



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                                              Page 105
ANNEX P: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Table 1: Detailed Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million)
Procurement Method
I.1n-,,Ii,n,.l Compdili-o    N.t,oa.I Co-petit-h  Oher  Not Bank    Total Cost
ii'dd'mg.              Biddiny                Financed
1. Works
1.1 Rehabilitation                 22.60                            0.503'                            23.10
(20.30)                          (0.40)                           (20.70)
2. Goods
2.1   Equipment                                                      Ilo,                              1.10
(1.10)                           (1.10)
2.2   Vehicles                                                      0.30"                              0.30
(0.30)                           (0.30)
2.3  Supplies                       0.80                             0.20d                             1.00
(0.80)                          (0.20)                            (1.00)
3. Consultant Services
3.1 Technical Assistance                                             5.20"                             5.20
(5.20)                           (5.20)
3.2 Construction Supervision                                         l.20'                            1.20
(1.20)                           (1.20)
3.3 Training                                                        0.409'                             0.40
(0.40)                           (0.40)
4. Recurrent Costs                                                   1.30"                             1.30
(0.50)                           (0.50)
5. PPF                                                               0.43"                             0.43
(0.43)                           (0.43)
Total                   23.40                            10.33                             33.73
(21.10)                          (9.23)                           (30.33)
Figures may not total due to rounding.
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
a/ Sanitation Civil Works $0.5 million to be procured by National Shopping
b/ Includes Water Supply and Sanitation equipment $0.8 million and office equipment $0 3 million to be procured by Intemational Shopping
c/ Vehicles to be procured by Intemational Shopping
d/ Includes fumiture of $23,000 and other supplies of $20.000 to be procured by National Shopping and Laboratory Furniture $128,000 and water
supply and sanitation supplies $56,000 to be procured by International Shopping.
e/ Includes Local TA of $0.9 million and Foreign TA of $4.3 million to be procured per Guidelines for the use of Consultants, August, 1981.
f/ Includes Consulting Services for Construction Supervision $1.2 million to be procured per Guidelines for the use of Consultants, August, 1981.
g/ Includes workshops/seminars $297,000 and study tours $139,000 to be procured per Guidelines for the use of Consultants, August, 1981.
h/ Includes office rent to be financed by the govemment $787,752; PIU personnel salaries after effectiveness $282,000 procured per Guidelines; and
office operation, maintenance and communication costs $76,000 and miscellaneous expenses $122,000 to be procured by national shopping.
i/ Includes phase I of PIU consulting contract $350,000; local consultants $35,000; office equipment (NS) $30,000; training $10,000; and recurrent
costs $5,000



Page 106                                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Table 2: Procurement Schedule
Major Activities Schedule (Dates)
Category         Package      Estimated      Procurement
Cost          Method          Issue Docs.     Bids/Pro.Recd.     Contract.Signed      Start/Delivery
L______        (USS$00      __
Civil Works
Water Supply            I          23, 148         ICB with        July, 1997     September, 1997     December,1997        January, 1998
Rehabilitation                                  Prequalification'
Construction            l           1,178         Consultant        February,       April, 1997          May, 1997          June, 1997
Supervision                                       Guidelines          1997
Shortlist
Sanitation Rehab.       16           169             NS           March, 1998       April, 1998          May. 1998          June, 1998
Health Center           I            59              NS           March, 1998       April, 1998          May, 1998          June, 1998
Laboratory Rehab.       9            236             NS           March, 1998       April, 1998         May, 1998           June, 1998
Subtotal Civil                      24,790
Works
Goods
Water Supply and        3            752             IS            July, 1997     September, 1997     December. 1997      January. 1998
Sanitation
Equipment
Other Equipment         4            281              IS           September.     November. 1997      December, 1997      January, 1998
1997
Furniture
- Health Rehab          1            23              NS            July, 1998     September, 1998      October, 1998      February, 1999
- Upgrade SES           1            129              IS           May, 1998        July, 1998        September, 1998    December, 1998
Labs
Water Supply and        I            835             ICB           July, 1997     September, 1997     December, 1997       January 1998
Sanitation
Supplies
l            57              IS           June, 1998       August. 1998      September, 1998    November. 1998
Other Supplies          I            20              NS           March, 1998       April, 1998         May, 1998           July. 1998
Educational             5            58              NS            June, 1998       July, 1998           July, 1998        August. 1998
Materials
Vehicles
- Sanitation and        1            218              IS          August. 1997     October. 1997      November, 1997       January. 1998
Health Component
(Jeeps)
i           117              IS          August, 1997     October. 1997      November. 1997       January, 1998
- Institutional
Strengthening and
PMU
Subtotal Goods                      2,490
Consultants
Sanitation and          l           1.704         Consultant       July. 1997     September, 1997     December. 1997      January, 1998
Health                                            Guidelines
Shortlist



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                                                      Page 107
Major Activities Schedule (Dates)
Category         Package       Estimated      Procurement
Cost           Method          Issue Docs.     Bids/Pro.Recd.      Contract.Signed       Start/Delivery
(tlS$000)               _                                                                                  l
Institutional            1            1717          Consultant        July, 1997     September, 1997      December. 1997       January, 1998
Strengthening                                       Guidelines
Shortlist
Project                  1            926           Consultant      January,1997       March. 1997          May, 1997            June, 1997
Management                                          Guidelines
(Phase 11)                                           Shortlist
Subtotal                             4,347
Consultant
Training
Wrkshps/Seminars                      288           Consultant      Note: Local training for first two years to be done under Foreign Consultants
Guidelines      contract, remainder to be done by local trainers.
Study tours                           138           Consultant      Note: Study tours to be done in the first year of project implementation under
Guidelines     the Foreign Consultants Contract.
Subtotal                              426
Training                                                                                                                                       l
Recurrent Costs
Facilities               2             2               NS           Note: Latrines to be emptied twice during life of project, once each in 2001
Maintenance                                                         and 2002
PIU Personnel           12            247           Consultant       April, 1997       June, 1997           July, 1997           July. 1997
(salaries after                                     Guidelines
effectiveness)
Office Space &                        788                           Note: Office Rent to be financed by the Government.
Operations
Miscellaneous            6            203              NS            April, 1997       June, 1997           July, 1997           July, 1997
Subtotal                             1,240
Recurrent Costs
Project
Preparation
Facility (PPF)l
Consultant               1            350           Consultant      January,1997       March, 1997          May, 1997           June, 1997
Services (Phase I)                                  Guidelines
Shortlist
Local Staff (PIU        12             35           Consultant
staff salaries until                                Guidelines
effectiveness)
Equipment                I             30              NS
Training                               10           Consultant
Guidelines
Recurrent Costs                        5               NS
Subtotal PPF                          430
TOTAL COSTS  i            l          33,723
a/  Prequalification  docs  issud    Apr i, J 1997_ _ _ _ _ _ _       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Page 108                                    Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
ANNEX Q: DISBURSEMIENT SCHEDULE
Table 1: Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year             Disbursements by Semester    Cumulative Disbursemens by
Fiscal Year
FY98
July, 1997 - December, 1997              0.4                          0.4
January, 1998 - June, 1998               1.6                          2.0
FY99
July, 1998 - December, 1997              2.0                          4.0
January, 1998 - June, 1999               3.0                          7.0
FY00
July, 1999 - December, 1999              4.0                          11.0
January, 1999 - June, 2000               4.0                          15.0
FYOI
July, 2000 - December, 2000              4.0                          19.0
January, 2001 - June, 2001               4.0                          23.0
FY02-
July, 2001 - December, 2001              3.0                          26.0
January, 2001 - June, 2002               2.0                          28.0
FY03
July, 2002 - December, 2002              1.3                          29.3
January, 2003 - June, 2003               1.0                          30.3



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                            Pa .g I02
ANNEX R: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    Data. All monetary figures are reported in 1996 US $, unless otherwise specified. The exchange
rate used is M.3,550 = $1.00, the average market rate in the second quarter of 1996. The official and
market exchange rates were unified in March 1996 when an auction system was introduced. However, at
September 1996 a 15% gap had arisen between the market rate and the auction rate.
2.     Data for costs of operation of the existing water supply operations are based on real (as opposed
to planned or budgeted) expenditures in nominal Manats for the first half of 1996, converted to dollars at
the exchange rate of 3,550.
3.     GDP data and inflation. There is considerable confusion about national accounts, due both to the
transformation from Soviet accounting standards and to the effects of very high inflation and currency
depreciation in 1993-1995. The following estimates for GDP, per capita GDP and inflation are taken
from IMF documents, but are not official figures.
1992      1993     1994        1995
GDP (mln Manat)                                     653      9,397    97,000    1,107,000
GDP per capita (US$, Atlas methodology)            1,49()     1,290    1,070       920
Retail price index (% change during period)         644      9,743     1,469
Consumer price index (% change during period)                          1,328       1,262
4. Nominal GDP in 1995 is estimated by the IMF at M.1,107,000 million. However, in September 1996,
Goskomstat estimated 1995 nominal GDP at M.464,457. The IMF reports a real reduction of GDP of 39%
between 1993 and 1995, due principally to declining gas production. However, gas still accounted for 51 %
of GDP (1995). Neither the Govemment nor the IMF has published official estimates of dollar GDP for
recent years. However, estimates made using the Atlas methodology show a sharp reduction, of 38%
between 1992 and 1995, in which year per capita dollar GDP stood at $920. Inflation (Consumer Price
Index, point to point) in 1994 was 1,328% and in 1995, 1,262%. However, following the implementation of
a stablilization program based on fiscal and monetary control, in the first 8 months of 1996, the
accumulated rise in the price index was down to 263%.
5.  Scope of this analysis. This annex presents a financial and economic analysis of the project, following
the guidelines established in the World Bank Handbook on the Economic Analysis of Investment
Operations (1996) and in the memorandum Guidelines for Economic Analysis of Projects, issued by the
Chief Economist of ECA dated February 29 1996. The main body of the analysis is divided into four
sections: financial analysis; analysis of the project's cost recovery mechanisms and fiscal impact; economic
analysis; and analysis of poverty considerations and affordability.
6.     The project has four components: water supply improvements, sanitation and health, institutional
strengthening, and project management and construction supervision. The quantitative economic analysis
presented here is limited to the water supply improvements component, for which the benefit stream is
well defined and quantifiable (the private benefits and externalities to be derived from increasing the



Page  110                                       Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
supply of potable water).' The water supply component represents 70% of the total value of the proposed
loan. For the purposes of this analysis, the water supply project is disaggregated into the component for
upgrading water supply in seven Etrap Cities and that for nine Kolkhozes. This procedure has been
adopted because each component has clearly identifiable cost and benefit streams.
7.   Country context. The country context of Turkmenistan, detailed in Chapter 1, Section A of the SAR,
is problematic for a water and sanitation project. The Bank Group's program has developed slowly but
steadily in this environment reflecting the limited but growing Bank-Govemment dialogue on development
issues and approaches. A first Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) has been prepared, at the
request of the Government, for discussion by the Board on May 27, 1997, together with the Urban
Transport project and this operation. The most important problem from a sectoral point of view is that the
Government is committed to a policy of public services, including water supply for human consumption,
free at the point of demand. This runs directly against the grain of the Bank's policies for sustainability in
water supply, via cost recovery from the users. No corporate framework exists within the sector; water
services are organized as government departments (variously local and national) and are financed on an
annual budget basis. There is considerable duplication of functions. The organizations responsible for urban
water supply in small towns are multi-purpose departments, also responsible for housing and communal
services. The project will address these problems through an institutional strengthening component which
will promote cost recovery and the creation of a specialized water and wastewater authority in Dashkhovuz,
subject to a new regulatory framework (see Annexes C, I and S-2).
Financial analysis
8.  Operational inefficiencies in the existing systems. The financial analysis is based on a comparison of
"with project" and "without project"scenarios for the costs and revenues of the water supply services in the
two groups of beneficiaries. Data for operating costs and water production in the first half of 1996 are
summarized in Table I . In each case, the water utilities' performance reflects the inadequacy of the existing
regulatory framework. In the first place, since capital resources are free to the utilities, there is little
attention to economy in their use. On average, pumps, which should last for between four and five years, are
replaced annually. The budget for replacing equipment is 58% of total expenditure in the Etraps and 59% in
the Kolkhozes; an efficient proportion would be below 20%.
9.  The distribution system is severely decayed, and the low pressure in the system has led to a vicious
circle, with the deliberate removal of faucets from street standpipes, in an effort to facilitate access to the
small amount of water which arrives, and resulting in astronomical physical losses (estimated at 80% by the
Consultants who prepared the investment plan).
10. As a result, in the seven Etrap Centers to be included in the project, water production is an estimated
2.3 million M3 per year, but only 462,000 M3 are delivered to clients. In the nine Kolkhozes to be covered
by the project, production is estimated at 370,967 M3 per year, but only 74,193 M3 are delivered to clients.
I For the other two components, the benefit stream is indirect. The institutional strengthening component seeks to improve sector
performance in the medium to long run through the creation of a unitary water and waste water authority in Dashkhovuz. The health
and sanitation component seeks to improve institutional capacity through technical assistance to the regulatory authorities and to
increase future demand for improved public health conditions through demonstration projects in sanitation. The Social Needs
Assessment revealed that at present there is little demand for improved sanitation; however, unsatisfactory sanitary conditions are
believed to be the principal cause of the high level of infant mortality from diarrhea. In the future, it should become feasible to
finance investment projects to improve sanitation, justified by the increased willingness to pay which the demonstration projects will
create.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                       Page  i.U
In each case, this amounts to around 12 liters per person per day for the corresponding population. The
resulting op,erational cost per M3 delivered to clients is $0.59 in the Etrap Centers and $1.03 in the
Kolkhozes.
Table 1: Operating costs and productivity indicators, existing water supply systems
Etrap Centers                Kolkhozes
Annual operating costs, $                                 $271,127                    $76,403
Of which: Materials and equipment, $                      $157,746                    $45,127
Materials and equipment, % of operating cost                58%                         59%
Production, M3 I year                                    2,310,815                    370,967
Delivery, M3 / year                                       462,163                      74,193
Cost per M3 produced                                       $0.12                       $0.21
Cost per M3 delivered                                      $0.59                       $1.03
Physical losses, %                                          80%                         80%
Population covered                                        108,000                      16,730
Water delivered per person, liters per day                  11.7                        12.2
11. Due to the enormous losses and the deteriorated condition of the wells and pumping facilities, the
system is unable to achieve the designed pressures and supply volumes. In most places, there is supply in
the standpipes only four to six hours per day. In addition, overpumping of the wells in an effort to
compensate for losses in the system leads to high salinity in the water supplied, as well as further
contributing to the accelerated depreciation of the pumps. Virtually all the chlorination facilities are in
disuse.
12. Although in the Etrap Centers, an estimated 45% of households have yard taps and 5% have household
connections, these normally are not functional. As a result, the inhabitants must resort to coping strategies to
meet their water needs. Water is taken from wells, handpumps or (in the limited hours when it arrives) the
piped supply from the stand pipes. None of these supplies is treated with chlorine, and Dashkhovuz reports
the highest rate of infant mortality in Turkmenistan, a significant part of which is likely to be attributable to
water-related infections.
13. The systems also use electricity very inefficiently. This is a predictable result of receiving a supply at
the average price of $0.01 per KWH (marginal supply price is actually one tenth of this, as the fixed charge
for installed capacity accounts for most of the total). Pump sizes are normally inefficient and pumps
normally are run outside their optimal operating ranges. This results in very large consumption of electricity
per cubic meter of water delivered to clients. In the Etrap Centers, a reported 1.43 KWH are used for every
2 Operating costs do not include any element for the financial costs of capital investments, since these resources are granted
from the state budget. Although there is a depreciation provision in the HCS accounts for operating costs of the Etrap Centers water
supply, recent inflation has severely eroded the real value of the historic costs at which assets are depreciated, so there is effectively
no accounting for capital consumption.



Page 112                                  Turkmenistan:Water Supply and Sanitation Project
M3 of water produced. An efficient level would be around 0.4 KWH/M3. Although this inefficiency does
not result in a financial burden to the water utilities, because the electricity price is heavily subsidized, the
real economic cost of these wasted resources is considerable.
14. Project strategy to improve performance. The project will address these problems by rehabilitating the
existing production system, repairing and replacing pumps and boreholes, and installing automatic controls
to prevent overpumping and avoid pressure surges in the system. It will restore the chlorination systems and
replace as necessary the deteriorated pipes of the distribution network. Street stand pipes with improved
design, including automatically closing faucets and anti freezing devices, will be installed.
15. As a result of these improvements, physical losses are expected to be reduced to 20% and the system
will offer a reliable supply, between 12 and 20 hours per day, of drinkable water. The correct operation of
the wells will optimize the quality of the water and should gradually reduce salinity. Improved pressure in
the system will allow the water to reach the existing installed yard taps and household connections. This is
likely to lead to a steady rise in the proportion of households with yard taps and household connections,
since the Social Needs Assessment revealed a high preference for these, over the use of stand pipes. The
rehabilitated distribution systems in the Etrap Centers will have sufficient capacity to allow a doubling of
water supplied, with only relatively minor additional investments in production capacity (additional
boreholes and pumping equipment), up to 2011. At that point further expansion of the distribution network
will be necessary. In the Kolkhozes the distribution networks established with the initial investment will be
sufficient to absorb anticipated demand through 2017.
16. The following financial analysis, presents projections for 20 years of the impacts of the Etrap Center
and Kolkhoz investment programs. First, the assumptions made in each case are explained in detail. Then
the results of the projections are presented. A sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in key variables
is presented at the end of the financial and economic evaluation.
17. "Without project" scenarios. It is assumed in each case that the physical and financial performance
registered in the first half of 1996 would continue unchanged over the proposed 20 year life of the project.
Data for a the first half of 1996 were used as the basis for the projection, due to the difficulty of
standardizing intertemporal series in the climate of high inflation / rapid devaluation experienced by
Turkmenistan in the last three years. For Etrap Centers, Table Al presents projected operating expenditure
and Table A2 presents projected net financial flows without the project. For Kolkhozes, the corresponding
tables are A6 and A 7. In each case, capital expenditure is set at zero because we are analyzing the people
covered by the existing system (expansions of the system would be alternative projects). Water produced
and delivered remain constant. Income is set at zero, on the assumption that without the project, the
Government would continue with its policy of 100% subsidies for water.
18. Cost recovery and its impact on demand. The Government is expected to introduce a system for direct
cost recovery from the users of the improved system (see paragraphs 51-60 below). However, it is expected
in the medium term that whatever mechanism is adopted for charging, it will be a flat rate system (in which
the marginal cost of water to the user is zero). For this reason, it was not necessary to estimate demand
elasticities in order to complete the financial analysis of the project (since the volume of demand will not be
affected by a flat rate tariff).
19. Demand projection - Etrap Centers (Table A3). In the "with project" scenario, production (called
"system demand" in the table) will be 3.7 million M3 in 2000 when the works are complete, compared with
2.3 million M3 produced in the "without project" scenario. The rehabilitation of the distribution network
allows the loss ratio to fall to 20%, so that delivery of water rises spectacularly, to 2.9 million M3 in 2000,



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                               Page 113
compared with 462,000 M3 per year without the project. Thereafter, production and delivery are assumed to
grow steadily over the next 20 years, permitting (and responding to) a steady growth in demand,
attributable to a projected population growth rate of 2.2% within the area covered by the distribution
network, coupled with the gradual conversion of stand pipe users to yard tap or household connexion users,
which is likely to be stimulated by the increased reliability of the system. Yard taps and household
connections generate much higher per capita consumption than stand pipes, because the water does not have
to be carried. According to this projection, total annual consumption will more than doubled, from 2.7
million M3 in 1998, to 6.6 million by the year 2017.
20. Operating costs - Etrap Centers (Table A4). The profile of operating expenditure will be radically
altered, due to the imposition of efficiently designed and operated pumps. This would a) reduce the budget
for replacement of equipment from 57% of the total down to under 20% and b) reduce the consumption of
electricity from 1.43 KWH per M3 produced, to 0.33. The projection assumes that real salaries for system
staff will double, to allow the recruitment and retention of adequate professionals, but the total salary bill
will increase by under 10% in real terms, due to more efficient staffing policies. Finally, a provision has
been made for the cost of chemicals needed to operate the chlorination system; at present, there is little
chlorination. As a result of all these factors, total operating costs will be reduced by 7% between 1997-
2000, in spite of the fivefold increase of the volume of water delivered to clients. Thereafter, operating costs
will rise gradually, as increasing output pushes up the electricity and chemicals bills. It is assumed that the
other components of operating expenditure will not rise in line with output.
21. Cost and tariff calculations - Etrap Centers (Table AS). The average tariff necessary fully to cover
the total financial costs of the system, including the operating costs and the debt service of the loan which
finances the investment, has been calculated. The estimate assumes that the Bank loan will be for 20 years
with a 5 year grace period, and annual interest rate of 7.5%. The resulting 'full cost tariff' of US $0.42
per cubic meter gives a good measure of the average total cost of the water to be supplied by the revamped
system.
22. The cost is relatively high, due to the small size of the Etrap Centers, which makes both scale
economies in production and network economies in distribution elusive. It is also affected by the high
estimated capital costs, due to the difficulties of attracting contractors to execute projects in Turkmenistan.
The Consultant Engineers who prepared the project consider that 100% of the resources used in the
construction will be imported to the country - including the manual labor. This is consistent with the pattern
observed in other civil works contracts underway in the country, where Turkish and Pakistani manual labor
is being used.
23. Nevertheless, the proposed plan represents the least-cost solution for improving water supply in the 7
Etrap cities. The alternative of completing the unfinished aqueduct from Tuyamuyun to Dashkhovuz was
evaluated by the consultant and found to be far more costly; requiring $502 million to complete the works.
The engineers also considered the option of utilizing surface water (canal water) coupled with the
introduction of sand pressure filters, as an alternative to the existing borehole supply source. This option did
not report lower unit costs than the proposed project and was considered technically more complex, and
therefore rejected because it would increase project risks. However, the option of complementing the
revamped system with surface water and filtration should be kept open, in the event that salinity does not
fall in the well water following improved management of the pumping regime, since the surface water at
present registers lower salinity than groundwater and salinity is an important consideration in demand for
water.



Page 114                                    Turkmenistan:Water SuppIy and Sanitation Project
24. The reported tariff is calculated on a cash-flow basis, using a discount rate of 12%. To simplify the
calculation, the depreciation rate on the investment is set equal to the amortization rate on the loan. This is
justifiable, as a twenty year life is a reasonable average for the types of investment being made. The tariff
calculated is an average total cost tariff, based on the whole output and costs of the system if the
investment goes ahead - it is not based on average incremental cost.
25. Since at present the water utilities in Dashkhovuz velayet have no charging policy, it is unlikely that
they will move directly to a full cost tariff. For this reason, we have also calculated a tariff sufficient to
cover the full cost of Operations and Maintenance ("O&M Tariff'). This tariff, also reported in Table A5,
is US$ 0.14 per cubic meter. This is much lower than the full cost tariff, underlining the high weight of
capital costs in the full cost tariff, and also illustrating the expected efficiency of the operation of the
improved system. This tariff would be sufficient to cover the full cost of staff, repairs and maintenance,
electricity and chemicals at the existing unit costs of these inputs and at the efficiency (productivity) levels
projected by the project engineers.
26. Financial internal rate of return - Etrap Centers (Table AS). The expected financial internal rate of
return of the project (at market prices) is 10.7%, if a full cost tariff is applied. This rate of return is
calculated on the basis of incremental real incomes and expenditures which will arise in each period if the
project is implemented, compared with the situation if it is not implemented. The cost of investments is
registered in full in the year they are made and the debt service flow is excluded from the calculation.
27. Demand projection - Kolkhozes (Table A8). In the "with project" scenario, production ("system
demand" in the table) will be 1.98 million M3 in 2000 when the works are complete, compared with 0.51
million M3 in the "without project" scenario. In addition, the rehabilitation of the distribution network
allows the loss ratio to fall to 20%, so that delivery of water rises to 1.59 million M3 in 2000, compared
with 102,000 M3 per year without the project. Thereafter, production and delivery are assumed to grow
steadily over the next 20 years, permitting (and responding to) a steady growth in demand, attributable to a
projected growth rate from 2002 onwards of 2.2% of the population within the are covered by the expanded
network, and to the gradual conversion of stand pipe users to yard tap or household connexion users, which
is likely to be stimulated by the increased reliability of the system. By the year 2017, total annual
consumption would have tripled, from 1.3 million M3 in 1998, to 3.97 million.
28. Operating costs - Kolkhtozes (Table A9). The profile of operating expenditure will be radically altered,
due to the imposition of efficiently designed and operated pumps. This would a) reduce the budget for
replacement of equipment from 63% of the total down to under 20% and b) reduce the consumption of
electricity from 1.43 KWH per M3 produced, to 0.33. The projection assumes that real salaries for system
staff will double, to allow the recruitment and retention of adequate professionals, and staffing levels will
also be increased significantly from their present levels, which are too low for efficient operation. As a
result, the total salary bill will increase from just over $10,000 without the project, to a projected $66,600
with the project. Finally, a provision has been made for the cost of chemicals needed to operate the
chlorination system; at present, there is little chlorination. As a result of all these factors, total operating
costs will be doubled, from their present level of $105,000 per year to $216,000 a year in 2000, when the
works are complete. But this will be compensated by a fifteen-fold increase of the volume of water
delivered to clients (from 102,000 M3 a year now to 1.58 million M3 in 2000). Thereafter, operating costs
3 Since this discount rate is higher than the 7.5% interest rate on the loan, the project benefits from the high gearing (100% loan
financed) and the resulting tariff is lower than would be a tariff calculated on the flow of real expenditures. The net present value of
the flow of real transactions is negative at $2.8 million when the full cost tariff is levied (Table A5).



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                 Page 115
will rise gradually, as increasing output pushes up the electricity and chemicals bills. It is assumed that the
other components of operating expenditure will not rise in line with output.
29. Cost and tariff calculations - kolkhozes (Table A10). The "full cost tariff' (see definitions above, in
discussion of Etrap Centers) is US $0. 74 per cubic meter. The cost is higher than for the Etrap Centers, due
to the even lower density of the populations, which makes scale economies in production and network
economies in distribution elusive. As with the Etrap Centers, it is also affected by the high estimated capital
costs, due to the difficulties of attracting contractors to execute projects in Turkmenistan. Nevertheless, the
proposed plan represents the least-cost solution for improving water supply in the 9 Kolkhozes. The
engineers also considered the option of utilizing surface water (canal water) coupled with the introductioll
of sand pressure filters, as an alternative to the existing borehole supply source. The observations made with
respect to the Etrap Center project on this point also apply here.
30. The tariff needed to cover operations and maintenance ("O&M Tariff") for the Kolkhoz project is
US$ 0.16 per cubic meter (Table A10). This is only slightly liigher than the $0.14 reported for the Etrap
Centers; the differences between the two projects' costs lie mainly in their capital-output ratios, not in unit
operating costs.
31. Financial internal rate of return - Kolkhozes (Table A1O). The expected financial internal rate of
return of the project (at market prices) is l0. 7%, if a full cost tariff is applied. As for the Etrap Centers, this
rate of return is calculated on the incremental real incomes and expenditures which will arise in each period
if the project is implemented, compared with the situation if it is not implemented. The cost of investments
is registered in full in the year they are made and the debt service flow is excluded from the calculation.
Fiscal impact and cost recovery
32. The fiscal impact of the project will depend on the cost recovery mechanisms adopted. If the
government applies a full cost tariff the fiscal impact of the project will be zero. If an O&M tariff is applied,
the net present value of the implicit subsidy (the cost of the loan finance) for the Etrap Centers will be US
$6.4 million over the life of the project (calculated as the present value of the difference between the
projected income from a full cost tariff and projected O&M costs - see Table A5). For the Kolkhozes. it will
be US $7.26 million (Table AI 0). The Institutional Strengthening component of the project will support the
Government to analyze options for charging for the improved water service and to reach a decision on
which option is most suitable for Turkmenistan at this stage. The following options are under discussion:
a) A flat rate user fee (earmarked tax) for all beneficiaries, to be collected directly by the HCS (Etrap
Centers) and either by the Rural Operations Department or (possibly) by the Kolkhoz authorities
(Kolkhozes).
b) A user fee differentiated between households with and without yard taps. Within this framework, a
possible option is a zero fee for users without yard taps. This would allow the project to comply with
the President's free water policy, since everyone can use the stand pipes. There might also be a
connexion fee for establishing yard taps, including a component for the direct cost of the connexion
and a component for increasing production capacity in the system.
c) A program to introduce metering for households with yard taps. This would be dependent on the
overall development of a commercial function and on the establishment of tariff levels sufficiently
high to allow the benefits from metering to offset the costs of the same.



Page 116                                 Turkmenistan:Water Supply and Sanitation Project
33. In the initial stage, it is not recommendable to begin a metering program, due to the organizational
complexity of this sort of tariff system and the fact that there will be excess supply capacity in the system
for 10 years, according to the demand projections. The rationale for metering will grow stronger, in the
degree that total demand approaches the distribution system's capacity. In this context, it is important to
remember that the main economic benefit from metering arises from the double incentive:
a) To the user, to reduce his consumption at the margin, because this reduces his water bill; this allows
the water company to supply more water to other clients who derive a higher marginal utility from the
water.
b) To the water company, to increase the number of cubic meters supplied to clients (since this
increases the company's income); this gives the company a direct interest in increasing the efficiency
of production.
Economic analysis
34. Methodology. The economic evaluation of the two projects was undertaken by adapting the financial
analysis through the substitution of economic opportunity costs for financial costs, and the substitution of
the estimated economic benefits for the financial revenues. This section describes in general terms the
problems faced and the methodological decisions made in the course of the analysis and then presents the
results of the economic analysis for the Etrap Center and Kolkhoz projects.
Cost conversions
35. Numeraire. The analysis was undertaken in dollars at border prices. This was the most convenient
numeraire because the virtually the whole of the capital costs will be incurred in dollars.
36. Shadow exchange rate. The economy of Turkmenistan is still largely state controlled. Nevertheless,
considerable headway has been made on exchange and trade liberalization. At the time of the Pre Appraisal
Mission, there was a unified exchange rate, whose value was not significantly below the black market rate.
Import demand is highly elastic, but imports are virtually tax and duty free (there is a 2% excise tax on
which VAT of 20% is added, for a total of 2.4%). Although the regulation of the exchange auction can be
presumed to involve a significant degree of administrative channeling of foreign exchange towards state
corporations, in accordance with their planned resource needs, it was not considered practicable in the time
available for the present analysis to try to quantify the implicit tariff to which such procedures might give
rise. Turkmenistan's exports (gas, cotton, oil) are highly price inelastic. The country's strong natural
resource base has given it comfortable foreign exchange reserves and the expectation in the medium term of
a relatively strong currency (subject to the adoption of satisfactory fiscal and monetary discipline). In mid
1996 the exchange rate had stabilized and the monthly inflation rate had been reduced to single digits. For
these reasons, it was decided that it was inappropriate to presume the existence of a shadow exchange rate
above the market rate; the economic analysis was conducted using the average market rate of exchange
applicable in the first half of 1996 (M.3550 = US$ 1.00).
37. Conversion factors for domestic costs. As was mentioned above, the capital costs of the project
(including labor) are expected to be incurred almost entirely in foreign exchange; no conversion is therefore
necessary. The required revenue costs for imported materials such as chemicals have also been estimated
directly in dollars at border prices. Since Turkmenistan does not have a labor surplus economy, and in the
"with project" scenario it is presumed that there should be a 100% real wage increase, in order to attract and
retain adequate staff in the reformed water utility, it would clearly be inconsistent to apply a shadow price
for labor, lower than that amount.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                          Page II1
38. Electricity. The only component of operating costs which is clearly priced well below its economic
opportunity cost is electricity. Turkmenistan trades electricity internationally over the Uzbek border, at
prices ranging from $0.04 to $0.05 per KWH, both importing and exporting. During the last year, electricity
was imported to Dashkhovuz from Uzbekistan at the price of $0.05 per KWH. However, the average price
at which electricity is supplied to the water utilities is only $0.01. For this reason, a conversion factor of 5
was applied to the average price of electricity (raising it from US$ 0.01/KWH to US$ 0.05).4 This has an
important positive impact on the result of the economic analysis in the Etrap Centers, where the project will
reduce total electricity consumption.
39. Taxes. The capital costs include a tax component of 15% of the total investment cost. This cost has
been removed for the purposes of the economic evaluation.
40. Benefit estimate. The project will deliver an improved water supply to the populations which benefit
from the investment. Given the economic cost of the improvement in water supply (discussed in the
previous section), its economic rate of return depends on the value assigned to that water by the users (their
"willingness to pay", WTP) plus the value of any additional benefits to society which are not reflected in
WTP (externalities), such as improved health status, resulting in lower medical costs to the public sector
and in increased output whose economic value is greater than the private incomes to which it gives rise.
However, following standard practice in the evaluation of drinking water projects, this analysis concentrates
on the private benefits to be derived from increased water delivered, improved water quality, and improved
reliability of the water supply. No attempt is made to quantify possible externalities such as health benefits
and increased output due to a healthier population.
41. Normally, the willingness to pay for the improved service would be analyzed through a detailed study
of the revealed preference of water users who have access to different types of supply option at present, on
the basis of which, a demand curve would be estimated. Failing this, a willingness to pay survey would be
used to establish a contingent valuation for the improved service. However, in this case, no data of either
sort were available, because there is no relevant survey information, and the existing formal water supply is
not charged for. The following paragraphs describe the procedure used to estimate the value of the benefit
stream.
42. The economic analysis is based on an estimate of the increase in consumer surplus to be derived by
households as a result of the reduction in the time they spend carrying water and as a result of the increase
in their future consumption of water, due to the improved supply. According to the findings of focus groups
conducted during the Pre-Evaluation Mission, on average a household in Tagta spends 1.5 hours per day or
45 hours per month carrying an average total of 3.6 cubic meters of water to their house.5 This amounts to
4 It would be possible to justify an even higher conversion factor. Turkmenistan generates electricity using natural gas. It charges the
electricity company M.500 per thousand cubic meters. The border price of gas is M.213,000 ($40); this amount is expected to rise
during the life of the project, since Turkmenistan is planning pipelines to Pakistan and Turkey, where the selling price would be
between $60 and $80. At the present price, gas costs represent just 3.6% of electricity generation costs in Turkmenistan. However, if
the border price were applied, the price of gas would rise by a factor of 426 and the total cost of electricity would in consequence rise
by a factor of 16.3 (1630%). Nevertheless, since gas reserves are so great that there is no effective short term trade-off between
domestic consumption and exports. the analysis uses a more cautious basis for the shadow price estimation.
5 Unfortunately, the Household Survey conducted during the Social Needs Assessment did not gather data on time used fetching
water. It did attempt to produce willingness to pay data for an improved system. but used an open-ended question which invited
strategic responses, and did not in general comply with the standard requirements for producing valid responses in contingent
valuation surveys. The survey did not use the Referendum method; did not limit the consultation to one price per household; and did
not specify to the household what sort of service was being offered. Rather, it allowed the household to say what service it would like



Page 118                                   Turkmenistan:Water Supply and Sanitation Project
12.5 hours per cubic meter. This water is for all uses. In the present analysis, the time spent at present
carrying water is accounted for at the value it would have in the labor market at present. At the average
money wage of M.40,000 per month (1996, September) or $11.2, the average hourly wage (assuming a 20
day working month) is $0.07. Therefore the value of the labor time used to carry each meter of water is
$O.88.6
43. This is reasonable, because there is not a significant amount of unemployment in the Turkmenistan
economy. If anything, it may result in an underestimation of the likely economic value of the time savings
during the life of the project, because dollar wages are at present highly devalued, due to depreciation
outstripping domestic price and cost inflation during 1995-96, and can be expected to grow significantly
once the macroeconomic stabilization program is completed. Also, the economy can be expected to grow in
real terms during the life of the project, increasing the economic opportunity cost of the time which would
be spent carrying water if the project does not go ahead. However, for the purposes of this analysis we have
left the value constant in real dollar terms throughout the analysis; the benefit estimate reported here is
therefore a conservative one. In the following sections we describe the application of this methodology to
the Etrap Center and Kolkhoz projects and present the results.
44. Economic evaluation - Etrap Centers. Separate estimates are made for the gains in welfare from
improved water supplies for the users of: stand pipes; yard taps; and household connections (Table A13 and
Chart 1). In each case, a linear demand curve is estimated, with the form P = a + fQ, where P = price per
cubic meter, Q is cubic meters consumed per month and cx and f3 are constants which reflect the elasticity of
demand. The three estimated demand curves are based on:
a) The average amount of time spent per household at present carrying water, and the average volume
carried (this is the same for each category, because at present most yard taps and household
connections are inoperative due to the system's collapse. and everyone must use wells or standpipes).
This gives a point on the demand curve with a price per meter of US$ 0.88 and consumption per
household/month of 3.6 M3.
b) The estimated average consumption of unrationed households of 6 people facing a zero marginal
price for water with, respectively: a household connexion (23.4 M3 / month, based on 130 l.p.d. and
average household size of 6); yard tap (10.8 M3.) and stand pipe (6.3 M3). For yard taps and
household connections, the marginal price for the unrationed supply is zero (because the tariff is
expected to be a fixed charge). In the case of stand pipe users, it is assumed that the fetching time per
meter is reduced by 80% due to system improvements (better reliability and closer spacing of
standpipes). This gives an implicit price of $ 0.18 / M3 corresponding to the projected consumption
level of 6.3 M3 / month.
45. In each case, the welfare gain has two components: the cost saving from not having to carry water at
present (area A in the graph), and the welfare gain from the increased consumption (area B). For each type
of consumer, the average welfare gain per cubic meter consumed is calculated (Table A 13). The gain is
to have and then invite the respondent to say what they would like to pay for this service. For all these reasons, the resulting data
have not been used in the present analysis.
6 Another indicator of the alternative cost of coping strategies are the large private investments made by many households to
install wells, with both handpumps and electric pumps, to substitute for the inoperative piped water system. According to focus group
respondents, between 45% and 5% of residents in different etrap centers and kolkhozes have invested amounts equal in value to 1.5
months wages to establish such systems. However, these systems do not supply chlorinated water.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                 Page  11
estimated at $0.51 per M3 for household connections; $0.59 for yard taps and $0.55 for stand pipes. On the
basis of these amounts, the total consumer surplus is estimated for each year, from the structure of
consumption in the demand projection (Table A14). As mentioned in the section on the financial analysis,
since the price of water will for the time being be zero at the margin, there was no need to adjust the
demand projection for the impact of possible tariffs. The results of the cost-benefit analysis are presented in
Table A14 The project has an estimated economic internal rate of return of 22.2%. A sensitivity analysis is
presented below.
46. Economic evaluation - Kolkhozes. The demand curves estimated for the Kokhozes are presented in
Table A17 and Chart 2. They differ in two ways from those estimated for the Etrap Centers. In the first
place, due to the larger average lot size in the Kolkhozes, estimate demand per capita with the improved
water system is higher, for yard taps and for stand pipes. In addition, average household size in the rural
area of Dashkhovuz is 7, compared with 6 for urban households, making for a further factor of adjustment.
As a result, monthly average household consumption is expected to be 27.3 M3 for a household connection,
14.7 M3 for a yard tap and 8.4 M3 for a stand pipe user. It should be noted that these volumes do not
include irrigation of private plots - the Kolkhozes have separate irrigation systems which use canal water for
this purpose.
47. The second important difference between the demand curves estimated for the Etrap Centers and the
Kolkhozes, is that the estimate of time presently used to fetch water is higher for the Kolkhozes. This is
reasonable, because they have a far inferior water service at present, with large areas outside the range of
the network, and the population density is far lower, so that traveling time to the available sources is likely
to be high. For these reasons, we have estimated an average time per M3 one third above that which is
prevalent in the Etrap Centers, giving an implicit price per M3 of $1.17.7 The resulting demand curves are
plotted in Chart 2. They imply a total welfare gain per M3 consumed from the improved system of between
$0.66 and $0.73, depending on the type of connection. Together with the demand projection for Kolkhozes
(Table A3), these values are used to calculate the projected economic benefit reported in Table A18. The
Kolkhoz project has an estimated economic internal rate of return of 10.6%, somewhat below that of the
Etrap Center project, due to the higher unit costs of production. A sensitivity analysis is presented below.
Sensitivity analysis
48. Table A19 presents the results of a sensitivity analysis for the financial analysis and economic
evaluation of each project. For the financial analysis, we explored the impact on the estimated unit cost of
production of varying the assumptions made on physical loss levels, population growth, the electricity price
and the discount rate used in the analysis. In both projects, the only factor which had any significant impact
on the tariff is the population growth rate, which affects the growth of total consumption. However, a large
change in the assumed growth rate in the Etrap Centers, from 2% to 3%, would only change the estimated
cost per M3 from $0.42 to $0.40; the change is similar for the case of the Kolkhozes. We can conclude that
the results of the financial analysis are robust in the face of all likely values of the most important
independent variables.
49. The sensitivity analysis for the economic evaluation investigates the way in which the economic
internal rate of return varies with key independent variables. Once again, it studies the impact of physical
losses and population growth, and finds their impact to be minor over likely ranges. The impact of changes
7 The hourly value of labor is estimated at the same rate in the Etrap Centers and Kolkhozes; according to household survey data,
per capita earnings are very similar in the two groups.



Page 120                                Turkmenistan:Water Supply and Sanitation Project
in the shadow price assigned to electricity is also relatively small in the case of the Etrap Centers, and is
insignificant for the Kolkhozes.
50. However, the impact of the value assigned to the labor used to carry each M3 of water in the "without
project" scenario has a very important impact on the results of the analysis. This is because the estimated
demand curves and the associated estimates of consumer surplus flow from this cost (which is taken as the
implicit price of each M3 of water supplied in the "without project" scenario). For this reason, in each case,
we have calculated the value of this variable which would return an economic internal rate of return of zero
for the project. In the case of the Etrap Centers, the rate of return falls to zero when the imputed cost of
water at present falls to $0.21 / M3 (compared with the value of $0.88 used in the baseline case). For the
Kolkhozes, a zero rate of return is reached when the imputed price falls to $0.55 (compared with the
baseline assumption of $1.17. We can conclude that the economic opportunity cost of labor used for
carrying water, in each scenario, would need to be radically below that which we have assumed, before
either of the projects ceases to report a positive economric rate of return.
Poverty analysis and affordability
5 1. This section discusses the prospects for cost recovery in the social and economic setting of
Dashkhovuz. It briefly describes the economic situation of the country, then presents evidence on household
incomes and real and nominal wages from the Turkmen authorities and from the Household Survey (see
Annex B and the Needs Assessment report, November 1995 from the Project files for more details), and
discusses the political economy of public service provision in Turkmenistan in that context.
52. The economic situation in Turkmenistan. The Bank Group's program has developed slowly but
steadily in this environment reflecting the limited but growing Bank-Government dialogue on development
issues and approaches. A first Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) has been prepared, at the
request of the Government, for discussion by the Board on May 20, 1997, together with the Urban
Transport project and this operation. The economy is highly dependent on the production of natural gas,
which in 1995 accounted for 51 % of GDP (data from the IMF). Turkmenistan is the world's fourth largest
producer of natural gas and has proven reserves sufficient for some 200 years' production at the present rate
of extraction. Following independence, Turkmenistan has had difficulty in exporting gas to the FSU states,
especially Ukraine, due to their inability to pay in hard currency. The accounting value of gas exports is $42
per 1,000 cubic meters, but 57% of this is paid for in barter, where goods are substantially overvalued, and
there are large arrears in cash payments. In an effort to press for higher real revenues, Turkmenistan has
halved gas exports to the FSU. As a result, production has fallen from 80 billion cubic meters a year at
independence, to around 40 billion at present. As a result, GDP has declined sharply in real terms.
According to the IMF, real GDP declined by 10% in 1993, 19% in 1994 and 14% in 1995 - a cumulative
reduction of 39%. Per capita dollar GDP has also declined sharply. Estimates made using the Atlas
methodology show a reduction of 38% between 1992 and 1995, in which year per capita dollar GDP stood
at $920.
53. Future prospects for GDP growth will depend on the development of gas, oil and agricultural
production. To increase value added in gas production, Turkmenistan will need to open new export markets
through the construction of pipelines to Turkey and possibly to Pakistan. However, the political problems
faced by this land-locked country in establishing such pipelines (through, respectively, Iran and
Afghanistan) are severe. Both the construction of gas pipelines and increased oil production will require
foreign investment, which will in turn depend on the extension of adequate guarantees to investors. In
agriculture, liberalization is needed in order to allow the countrv to maximize the income produced on the
limited irrigated territories in its possession.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                              Page 121
54. Household incomes in Dashkhovuz. GDP accounts are available only on a production basis; they are
not available on either an income or an expenditure basis. However, it is clear that the proportion of GDP
received as household disposable income is very small. According to the government statistical agency,
Goskomstat, in 1995 the average household monthly disposable income in Dashkhovuz velayet - where the
project is based - was M.13,587, or $68 at the average exchange rate for the year (Table 2).
55. However, according to the Social Needs Assessment conducted during 1995, monthly household
disposable income is even lower than the official figures suggest. Annual household income in Dashkhovuz
is reported as $355 (urban $336, rural $375); monthly income is therefore under $30 on average. The same
exchange rate was used for each of these figures, so the differences arise in the estimated value of income in
Manats. It is likely that the very rapid depreciation of the exchange rate during 1996 has resulted in a further
sharp reduction in the dollar value of household incomes. At the time of writing, the average wage is
M.40,000, which would correspond to a household income of around M.100,000 a month (assuming 2.5
incomes per household) or $20. This is much lower than the figures estimated for 1995, and reflects the
severe erosion of the dollar equivalent values of Manat incomes during 1996. However, this is likely to be
corrected in some degree once the stabilization program is complete.
Table 2: Indicators of household income and expenditure, Dashkhovuz velayet, 1995
1995 US$ (Exchange rate          Goskomstat data               Social Needs Assessment data
M.200 = $1)
Urban       Rural       Total      Urban       Rural       Total
Monthly income, US$        $62         $66         $64         $28         $31        $30
Proportion of spending     70%        51%         58%         84%         85%         85%
on food (%)                                  _
56. The proportion of income used to buy food is relatively high. According to official data, food
expenditure is on average 58% of total expenditure. For rural households, the proportion spent on food is
lower (51%) and for urban households, it is higher (70%). The Social Needs Assessment estimated a far
higher proportion (85%). These data should be interpreted with care; the high weight of food spending
reflects in part the fact that a wide range of basic services are supplied either free of charge or at nominal
rates which are effectively free, including housing, electricity, gas, water, phones, health care and education.
Therefore, the high share of food in total expenditure is not an indicator of abject poverty, so much as an
indicator of the unreformed nature of the economic system.
57.  The proportion of GDP received as household disposable incomes is very low indeed. The official
data for household income imply a per capita annual disposable income of $117, which is around 13% of
per capita GDP. It appears that most of GDP is retained by the public sector and goes to finance state-
controlled investments and to subsidize the provision of food and free public services (including housing,
electricity, gas and water). This in turn reflects the slow progress on economic reform and privatization
registered since independence. The economy of Turkmenistan is still in the initial phases of the transition
from a Soviet-style planned economy to a market economy. Perhaps the most important part of that
transition is the shift from state control of consumption decisions, to private control. For that to happen, the
proportion of national income which is received as private disposable household incomes will have to rise
radically from its present low level. While the state retains some 87% of GDP and households dispose of
only 13%, there is always likely to be resistance to paying for public services: many people will feel (not
unreasonably) that they have a right to expect free or subsidized services out of the part of national income
which is retained in the public sector.



Page 122                                 Turkmenistan:Water Supply and Sanitation Project
58. Turkmenistan is clearly at a level of development where the country is able to pay for piped water with
household connections for the great majority of its population. However, if this is done through a centrally
subsidized arrangement, with cash household incomes remaining low, then the resulting service is likely to
be inefficient. The state of the existing services in Dashkhovuz velayet is testimony to this. If, on the other
hand, public services were to be supplied at their full cost, on a pay-as-you-use basis, with the installation of
water meters, the system would be likely to be far more efficient. However, the distribution implications of
requiring the population to pay in full for their basic services, while their disposable incomes remain at the
low levels registered at present, are clearly unacceptable.
59. In this context, the issue of the affordability of water tariffs assumes a much broader significance.
Policy dialogue with the authorities should emphasize the potential efficiency gains to be had from tying the
incomes of the bodies responsible for producing services, to their delivery. It should also emphasize that the
result of privatization will be to increase the proportion of total income received by private individuals and
lower the proportion received by the state. While these issues clearly go far beyond the water sector, in the
interim, the institutional strengthening component of the water and sanitation project should also aim to
show that even with the collection of a limited user fee sufficient to cover operation and maintenance, the
efficiency of the system's operation can be greatly increased, compared with systems which depend on state
budget assignations for all their operating revenues.
60. The water tariff necessary to cover operations and maintenance in the present project, is estimated at
$0.14 and $0.16 per cubic meter in the Etrap Center and Kolkhoz projects, respectively. Households with
yard taps are likely to consume around 15 M3 a month - which would imply a tariff of $2.25 per month.
This would represent 7.5% of average monthly household incomes, on the income estimate made by the
Social Needs Assessment, or 3.5%, on the estimate of Goskomstat. At present (September 1996) incomes, it
might represent just over 10%. The establishment of a tariff in the range suggested is clearly not impossible;
in this context, it is also important to bear in mind that the provision of subsidized housing, power,
transport, health and education all help to reduce the pressure on the household budget.



Page 123
Table A19
Sensitivity analysis
A: ETRAP CENTERS
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                     ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Indicator: CostVM3                   Indicator: Economic IRR
$/M3                                        %
Physical losses       20%    $ 0.42     Physical losses         20%      22.2%
25%    $ 0.43                             25%     22.1%
30%   $ 0.45                              30%     21.3%
Population growth      2%    $ 0.42     Population growth        2%      22.2%
1%    $ 0.45                              1 %     20.6%
3%    $ 0.40                              3%      23.5%
Electricity price/KWH    $ 0.01  $ 0.42  Shadow elect.price/KWH   $ 0.050   22.2%
$ 0.02  $ 0.43                           $ 0.025   21.3%
$ 0.03  $ 0.44                           $ 0.075   23.1%
Discount rate        $ 0.12  $ 0.42       Economic CostIVM3    $ 0.88   22.2%
$ 0.11  $ 0.43     of water hauled maually  $ 0.66   16.2%
$ 0.10  $ 0.43       in "without project"    $ 1.10   28.1%
scenario        $ 0.21    0.0%
B: KOLKHOZES
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                     ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Indicator: Cost/M3                  Indicator: Economic IRR
$/M3                                        %
Physical losses       20%    $ 0.74     Physical losses         20%      10.6%
25%    $ 0.75                             25%     10.5%
30%    $ 0.76                             30%     10.3%
Population growth      2%    $ 0.74     Population growth        2%      10.6%
1%    $ 0.79                              1%       9.5%
3%    $ 0.70                              3%      11.8%
Electricity price/KWH    $ 0.01  $ 0.74  Shadow elect. price/KWH   $ 0.050  10.60%
$ 0.02  $0.74                            $ 0.025  10.64%
$ 0.03  $ 0.75                           $ 0.075  10.57%
Discount rate        $ 0.12  $ 0.74       Economic CostVM3    $ 1.17   10.6%
$ 0.11  $ 0.74     of water hauled maually  $ 0.88    6.3%
$ 0.10  $ 0.75      in "without project"    $ 1.47   14.4%
scenario        $ 0.55    0.0%



Page 124
Table Al
SEVEN ETRAPS
Financial operating expenditure without the project
Ex. Rate   3550
Mats &
Year   equip.    Fuel   Electricity Deprecn. Salaries   Other    Total
1996 Dollars, per year
1996    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
1997    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
1998    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
1999    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2000    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2001    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2002    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2003    157,746    3,944     35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2004    157,746    3,944     35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2005    157,746    3,944     35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2006    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2007    157,746    3,944     35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2008    157,746    3,944     35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2009    157,746    3,944     35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2010    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2011    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2012    157,746    3,944     35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2013    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2014    157,746    3,944    35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2015    157,746    3,944     35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2016    157,746    3,944     35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
2017    157,746    3,944     35,493    4,437   39,930   29,577  271,127
KWH/day      9,033
Price/KWH    $0.01



Page 125
Table A2
SEVEN ETRAPS                                                NPV    |-2,025,166|
Income and expenditure without the project                  Disc Rate   12%
Year               Production                Income, US$ 1996         Expenditure, US$ 1996    $/M3 cons
m3 produced  Loss ratio  m3 delivered  Tariff  Billings Income    Capital  Operating   Total  $
1996      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
1997      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
1998      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
1999      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2000      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2001      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2002      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2003      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2004      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2005      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2006      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2007      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2008      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2009      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2010      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2011      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2012      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2013      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2014      2,310,815    80%        462,163       0      0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2015      2,310,815    80%        462,163       0      0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2016      2,310,815    80%        462,163      0       0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
2017      2,310,815    80%        462,163       0      0        0         0  271,127  271,127   0.59
Prodn./day   6,331                             Collection rate  90%



Page 126
Table A3
SEVEN ETRAPS
Demand projection
Type of cover
H/hold con  Yard taps  Stand pipe No cover   Total    otal annual Losses   System   Daily  Percapita  System capacity   Required
Cons lpd    130        75         40        0      population consumption         demand  productio  daily av.   Total  Utilization nvestment
Year    Proportion of popln. with each type of cover           M3                  M3       M3    prodn, L.   M3                  $
1998     10%        20%        50%       20%       154,053  2,699,009   20%    3,373,761   9,243      75      12,000   77%     500,000
1999     11%        21%        49%       20%       158,366  2,820,824   20%    3,526,030  9,660       76      12,000   81%           0
2000      11%       22%        47%       20%        162,801  2,949,722   20%    3,687,152  10,102     78      12,000   84%           0
2001      12%       23%        45%       20%       167,359  3,086,192   20%    3,857,740  10,569      79      12,000   88%           0
2002      12%       24%        45%       19%        171,045  3,236,946   20%    4,046,182  11,085     80      12,000   92%           0
2003      13%       26%        44%       18%        174,811  3,395,797   20%    4,244,746  11,629     81      12,000   97%           0
2004      13%       27%        43%       17%        178,661  3,563,246   20%    4,454,057  12,000     81      12,000  100%    250,000
2005      14%       28%        42%       16%        182,596  3,739,825   20%    4,674,781  12,808     84      14,500   88%           0
2006      15%       30%        41%       15%        186,617  3,926,105   20%    4,907,631  13,446     85      14,500   93%            0
2007      16%       31%        39%       14%        190,726  4,122,693   20%    5,153,367  14,119     86      14,500   97%           0
2008      16%       33%        38%       13%        194,926  4,330,241   20%    5,412,802  14,500     86      14,500  100%    250,000
2009      17%       34%        37%       12%        199,219  4,549,443   20%    5,686,804  15,580     89      17,000   92%           0
2010      18%       36%        35%       11%       203,606  4,781,042   20%    5,976,302  16,373      90      17,000   96%           0
2011      19%       38%        33%        10%      208,090  5,025,831   20%    6,282,288  17,000      91      17,000  100%    ####
2012     20%        40%        31%       10%       212,673  5,253,608   20%    6,567,011  17,992      94      22,000   82%            0
2013     21%        42%        28%        10%      217,356  5,494,965   20%    6,868,706  18,818      96      22,000   86%           0
2014     22%        44%        25%       10%       222,143  5,750,825   20%    7,188,531  19,695      99      22,000   90%           0
2015     23%        46%        21%       10%       227,035  6,022,181   20%    7,527,726  20,624    101       22,000   94%           0
2016     24%        48%         18%       10%      232,034  6,310,094   20%    7,887,617  21,610    103       22,000   98%            0
2017     25%        51%        14%        10%      237,144  6,615,703   20%    8,269,628  22,000     103      22,000  100%            0
Annual growth                    Pop growth 1996-2001
5%        5%                             2.8%
Pop growth 2002-17
2.2%



Page 127
Table A4
SEVEN ETRAPS
Operating expenditure with the project
Ex.Rate    3550
Mats &
Year     equip.      Elect.     Chems.       Salaries     Other       Total
1996 Dollars                              % inc
1996       157,746     35,493           0        39,930     37,958    271,127
1997       157,746     35,493           0        39,930     37,958    271,127   0.00
1998       123,023     27,989      28,317        44,200     37,520    261,049  -0.04
1999        98,716     22,881      49,450        47,189     37,214    255,450  -0.02
2000        42,000     10,479      94,391        54,163     36,500    237,533  -0.07
2001        42,000     10,964      98,758        54,163     36,500    242,385   0.02
2002        42,000     11,499     103,582        54,163     36,500    247,745   0.02
2003        42,000     12,063     108,666        54,163     36,500    253,392   0.02
2004        42,000     12,658     114,024        54,163     36,500    259,345   0.02
2005        42,000     13,286     119,674        54,163     36,500    265,623   0.02
2006        42,000     13,947     125,635        54,163     36,500    272,246   0.02
2007        42,000     14,646     131,926        54,163     36,500    279,235   0.03
2008        42,000     15,383     138,568        54,163     36,500    286,614   0.03
2009        42,000     16,162     145,582        54,163     36,500    294,407   0.03
2010        42,000     16,985     152,993        54,163     36,500    302,641   0.03
2011        42,000      17,854    160,827        54,163     36,500    311,344   0.03
2012        42,000     18,663     168,115        54,163     36,500    319,442   0.03
2013        42,000     19,521     175,839        54,163     36,500    328,023   0.03
2014        42,000     20,430     184,026        54,163     36,500    337,119   0.03
2015        42,000     21,394     192,710        54,163     36,500    346,767   0.03
2016        42,000     22,416     201,923        54,163     36,500    357,003   0.03
2017        42,000     23,502     211,702        54,163     36,500    367,868   0.03
Spares/Mats  Price/KWH    Pnce/M3   Av. salary/month   Av./day
$6,000      $0.01      $0.03       $43.40        $100
(per Etrap/yr)  KWH/M3    Prce/Kg    Real inc
0.33      $2.00        100%
Kg/M3        Staff/etrap: 12
0.016       Cen.Admin: 20



Page 128
Table A5
SEVEN ETRAPS                                         Loan terms                                       Net present values
Financial rate of return and tariff calculation    Loan   10,936,000 Discount Rate Income - O&M   Total cash flow   Net real trans. Net financial impact
Grace per.   5         12.0%      6,402,553         0         -2,838,646      -813,479
Payments    15                Full cost tariff/1 $     0.42   O&M tariff/1i $        0.14
Interest    7.5%             IRR -full tariff/2      10.7%
Year             Income                                    Expenditure
Net financial
Initial    Debt  Incremental                           Total cash flow    Net real   impact of project
m3 delivered  Billings   Receipts  investment   Service  investment  Operating  Total         /3       transactions /4      /5
1998   1,208,431   510,825  459,742   5,468,000         0   500,000      261,049      761,049        -301,307    -5,769,307      -5,498,180
1999   1,771,759   748,953  674,058   5,468,000         0         0      255,450     255,450         418,608    -5,049,392       -4,778,265
2000   2,949,722  1,246,899 1,122,209         0         0         0      237,533      237,533        884,676       884,676        1,155,802
2001   3,086,192  1,304,587 1,174,128         0         0         0      242,385      242,385        931,743       931,743        1,202,870
2002   3,236,946  1,368,313 1,231,482         0         0         0      247,745      247,745        983,737       983,737        1,254,864
2003   3,395,797  1,435,462 1,291,916         0  1,656,689        0      253,392    1,910,082        -618,165    1,038,524        1,309,651
2004   3,563,246  1,506,246 1,355,621         0  1,656,689   250,000     259,345    2,166,035        -810,413      846,276        1,117,403
2005   3,739,825  1,580,889 1,422,800         0  1,656,689        0      265,623    1,922,313        -499,512    1,157,177        1,428,304
2006   3,926,105  1,659,633 1,493,669         0  1,656,689        0      272,246    1,928,935        -435,266    1,221,424        1,492,550
2007   4,122,693  1,742,734 1,568,461         0  1,656,689        0      279,235    1,935,925        -367,464    1,289,226        1,560,352
2008   4,330,241  1,830,468 1,647,422         0  1,656,689   250,000     286,614    2,193,303        -545,882    1,110,807        1,381,934
2009   4,549,443  1,923,129 1,730,816         0  1,656,689        0      294,407    1,951,097        -220,281    1,436,409        1,707,536
2010   4,781,042  2,021,030 1,818,927         0  1,656,689        0      302,641    1,959,330        -140,404     1,516,286       1,787,412
2011   5,025,831  2,124,506 1,912,055         0  1,656,689  3,000,000    311,344    4,968,033      -3,055,978    -1,399,288      -1,128,162
2012   5,253,608  2,220,792 1,998,712         0  1,656,689        0       319,442    1,976,131        22,581      1,679,270       1,950,397
2013   5,494,965  2,322,817 2,090,535         0  1,656,689        0      328,023    1,984,712         105,823     1,762,513       2,033,639
2014   5,750,825  2,430,974 2,187,876         0  1,656,689        0      337,119    1,993,809         194,068     1,850,757       2,121,884
2015   6,022,181  2,545,681 2,291,112         0  1,656,689        0      346,767    2,003,456        287,656      1,944,346       2,215,473
2016   6,310,094  2,667,386 2,400,648         0  1,656,689        0       357,003    2,013,692        386,956     2,043,645       2,314,772
2017   6,615,703  2,796,573 2,516,915         0  1,656,689        0      367,868    2,024,557        492,358      2,149,048       2,420,174
Notes:         Collection rate:  90%
1. Tariff calculations are on a cashflow basis (see note 3.); depreciation is set equal to the amortization of the loan.
2. The financial IRR is calculated for the full tariff, on the basis of the net financial impact of the project (as defined in note 5 below).
3. Total cash flow is defined as total cash receipts less total cash expenditure (inc. debt service) in each period. Debt-financed capital expenditures are netted out of the flow.
4. Net real transactions is cash income less investment and O&M expenditures. This includes the value of investments in the year they are made; it excludes debt service.
5. Equal to the net real transactions of the with project" scenario less the net income stream of the "without project" scenario.



Page 129
Table Al l
SEVEN ETRAPS
Economic operating expenditure without the project
Ex. Rate   3550
Mats &
Year   equip.    Fuel   Electricity Deprecn. Salaries   Other    Total
1996 Dollars, per year
1996    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
1997    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
1998    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
1999    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2000    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2001    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2002    157,746    3,944   164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2003    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2004    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2005    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2006    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2007    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2008    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2009    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2010    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2011    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2012    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2013    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2014    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2015    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2016    157,746    3,944    164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
2017    157,746    3,944   164,852    4,437   39,930   29,577  400,486
KWH/day      9,033
Price/KWH    $0.05



Page 130
Table A12
SEVEN ETRAPS
Economic operating expenditure with the project
Ex. Rate    3550
Mats &
Year     equip.      Elect.    Chems.       Salaries     Other      Total
1996 Dollars                             % inc
1996       157,746     35,493          0        39,930     37,958    271,127
1997       157,746     35,493          0        39,930     37,958    271,127   0.00
1998       123,023     39,446     28,317        44,200     37,520    272,506   0.01
1999        98,716    42,889      49,450        47,189     37,214    275,457   0.01
2000        42,000     48,670     94,391        54,163     36,500    275,725   0.00
2001        42,000     50,922     98,758        54,163     36,500    282,343   0.02
2002        42,000     53,410    103,582        54,163     36,500    289,655   0.03
2003        42,000     56,031    108,666        54,163     36,500    297,359   0.03
2004        42,000     58,794    114,024        54,163     36,500    305,481   0.03
2005        42,000     61,707    119,674        54,163     36,500    314,045   0.03
2006        42,000     64,781    125,635        54,163     36,500    323,079   0.03
2007        42,000     68,024    131,926        54,163     36,500    332,614   0.03
2008        42,000     71,449    138,568        54,163     36,500    342,680   0.03
2009        42,000     75,066    145,582        54,163     36,500    353,311   0.03
2010        42,000     78,887    152,993        54,163     36,500    364,544   0.03
2011        42,000     82,926    160,827        54,163     36,500    376,416   0.03
2012        42,000     86,685    168,115        54,163     36,500    387,463   0.03
2013        42,000     90,667    175,839        54,163     36,500    399,169   0.03
2014        42,000     94,889    184,026        54,163     36,500    411,578   0.03
2015        42,000     99,366    192,710        54,163     36,500    424,739   0.03
2016        42,000    104,117    201,923        54,163     36,500    438,703   0.03
2017        42,000    109,159    211,702        54,163     36,500    453,525   0.03
Spares/Mats  Price/KWH    Price/M3   Av. salary/month   Av./day
$6,000     $0.05      $0.03        $43.40       $100
(per Etrap/yr)  KWH/M3    Price/Kg   Real inc
0.33      $2.00        100%
Kg/M3        Staff/etrap: 12
0.016       Cen.Admin: 20



Page 131
Table A14
SEVEN ETRAPS
Baseline estimate of economic rate of return                                                  Net present value|  5,736,235 |
Discount rate    12%
Economic internal rate of returnn 22.2% l
Economic
Year                   Water delivered                  benefits               Economic costs                Net benefit
Increase in              Operating (with              (Economic
Household                          consumer    Investment  project-without                 benefit -
Total, m3   connection   Yard Tap   Stand pipe  surplus      costs        project)       Total     economic cost)
1998     1,208,431    359,958    415,337    433,135        666,211    5,127,148      -129,359     4,997,788     -4,331,577
1999     1,771,759    527,759    608,952    635,048        976,776    4,697,595      -129,359     4,568,235     -3,591,459
2000     2.949,722    851,670     982,696   1,115,356     1,626,373          0        -127,980     -127,980      1,754,353
2001     3,086,192    919,292   1,060,722   1,106,178     1,701,426          0        -125,029     -125,029      1,826,455
2002     3,236,946    986,514   1,138,285   1,112,147     1,784,386          0        -124,761     -124,761      1,909,148
2003     3,395,797   1,058,650   1,221,520   1,115,627    1,871,794          0        -118,143     -118,143      1,989,936
2004     3,563,246   1,136,062   1,310,841   1,116,343    1,963,922     214,777       -110,831      103,946      1,859,976
2005     3,739,825   1,219,134   1,406,693   1,113,997    2,061,064          0        -103,127     -103,127      2,164,191
2006     3,926,105   1,308,281   1,509,555   1,108,269   2,163,533           0         -95,005      -95,005      2,258,538
2007     4,122,693   1,403,946   1,619,938   1,098,809   2,271,662           0         -86,441      -86,441      2,358,103
2008     4,330,241   1,506,607   1,738,393   1,085,242   2,385,807      214,777        -77,407      137,370      2,248,437
2009     4,549,443   1,616,775   1,865,509   1,067,160   2,506,350           0         -67,872      -67,872      2,574,222
2010     4,781,042   1,734,998   2,001,921   1,044,123   2,633,697           0         -57,806      -57,806      2,691,503
2011     5,025,831   1,861,866   2,148,307   1,015,658   2,768,285    2,577,320        -47,175    2,530,145       238,140
2012     5,253,608   1,998,011   2,305,397   950,200      2,893,397          0         -35,942      -35,942      2,929,339
2013     5,494,965   2,144,112   2,473,975   876,378      3,025,955          0         -24,070      -24,070      3,050,025
2014     5,750,825   2,300,895   2,654,879   795,050      3,166,466          0         -13,023      -13,023      3,179,489
2015     6,022,181   2,469,144   2,849,012    704,025     3,315,473          0          -1,317       -1,317      3,316,790
2016     6,310,094   2,649,695   3,057,340    603,059     3,473,558          0         11,092        11,092      3,462,466
2017     6,615,703   2,843,448   3,280,902    491,353     3,641,346          0         24,253        24,253      3,617,093
Loan     $ 10,936,000
Tax rate           16%
Adjustment for tax      0.86



Page 132
Table A 13
Estimated welfare gains from improved water supply - Etrap Centers
H.Conn      Yard tap    Stand pipe  Notes
Demand curves                                                                     1
Time spent fetching water (per household/day)   1.5          1.5          1.5
Average monthly wage, M                       40,000       40,000       40,000
Average hourly wage, $                         0.07         0.07         0.07
Average monthly exp. on water, $               3.17         3.17         3.17
p1 $/M3                                        0.88         0.88         0.88     2
ql M3/month                                     3.6          3.6          3.6     3
p2 $ M/3                                        0            0           0.18     4
q2 M3/month                                    23.4         10.8          6.3
ALPHA                                          1.04         1.32          1.82
BETA                                          -0.04         -0.12        -0.26
Demand elasticity (p1)                         -5.5          -2          -0.94
Consumer surplus increase ($Ihouseholdlmonth)
A: Reduced cost of water                       3.17         3.17         2.54
B: Increased consumption                       8.71         3.17         0.95
Total, $                                      11.88         6.34         3.49
Av. gain per M3 total consumption
Total, $                                       0.51         0.59         0.55
Notes
1. The estimated curve is: P = ALPHA + BETA Q
2. Imputed value of fetching time per M3.
3. Consumption at present is estimated at 20 litres/person/day; 6 persons per household
4. Expected value of fetching time per meter for the improved standpipe system



Page 133
Chart I Monthly household welfare gains from different types of service - Etrap Centers
Welfare gain - Household connexion
1.2
1 -.8           88; 3.6
0.8-                     ~emand curve
0.6- A            . 
0.4-
0.2-_
06
0  __                 __ _ _ _,                 __ _ _ ______-                         _      
0    1   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  21  22  23
M3/month
Welfare gain - Yard tap
1.2-
I1     -C          \088;3.6
CO    0.8-
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0          1          3           4          5          6           8          9          10
M3/month
Welfare gain - Stand pipe upgrade
t68 
1.6                         d     d curve
1.4
1.2 C
CO      1                                                 0.8.88 3.6
f,~    0.8
0.6            A 
0.4                                                                B
0.2                                                                                         0.t8;6.3
O ___D    __  ___
0             1            2             3            4             5             6            7
M3/month



Page 134
ETRAPS
OPERATING EXPENDITURE WITHOUT PROJECT
Ex. Rate   3550
Mats &
Year    equip.    Fuel   Electricity  Deprec.  Salaries   Other    Total
Millions of 1996 Manats                        US $
1996        640        16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
1997        640        16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
1998        640        16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
1999        640        16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2000         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2001         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2002         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2003         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2004         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2005         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2006         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2007         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2008         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2009         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2010         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2011         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2012         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2013         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2014         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2015         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2016         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
2017         640       16        144        18      162       120    1,100  309,859
Prod growth
-1



Page 135
Table A6
KOLKHOZES
Financial operating expenditure without the project
Total present   Present   % of present cost
coverage, RWD   coverage, 9   attributable to 9
(persons)    Kolkhozes     Kolkhozes
Ex. Rate    3550                       148,000       16,730        11.30%
Year  Mats & equip.     Fuel       Electricity    Salaries       Other          Total
1996 Dollars, per year
1996     45,127        10,403        5,268          7,314         8,292        76,403
1997     45,127        10,403        5,268          7,314         8,292        76,403
1998     45,127        10,403        5,268          7,314         8,292        76,403
1999     45,127        10,403        5,268          7,314         8,292        76,403
2000      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2001      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2002      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2003      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2004      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2005      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2006      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2007      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2008      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2009      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2010      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2011      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2012      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2013      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2014      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2015      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2016      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
2017      45,127       10,403         5,268         7,314         8,292        76,403
Structure:    59%         14%           7%            10%           11%           100%
Price/KWH      $0.01
KWH/M3 prod.     1.42
m3 prod/day      1016
KWH/day        1,443



Page 136
Table A7
KOLKHOZES                                                            NPV                -570,688
Income and expenditure without the project                            Disc Rate        12%
Year                Production                       Income, US$ 1996                     Expenditure, US$ 1996           $/M3 cons
m3 produced  Loss ratio  m3 delivered    Tariff   Billings  Income          Capital     Operating      Total          $
1996        370,967    80%          74,193           0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
1997        370,967    80%          74,193           0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
1998        370,967    80%          74,193           0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
1999        370,967    80%          74,193           0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2000        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2001        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2002        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2003        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2004        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76.403        76,403     1.03
2005        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2006        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2007        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2008        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2009        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2010        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2011        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2012        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2013        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2014        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2015        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2016        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
2017        370,967    80%           74,193          0           0            0             0       76,403        76,403     1.03
odn. M3/day    1,016     Cons l/p/d   12.15              Collection rate    90%



Page 137
Table A8
KOLKHOZES
Demand projection
Type of cover
H/hold con Yard taps Stand pipe No cover  Total  Total annual Losse  System  Daily   Percapita  System capacity  Required
Cons lpd    130       75       40        0    population consumption      demand production daily av.  Total Utilization Investment
Year  Proportion of popln. with each type of cover        M3               M3       M3    prodn, L.  M3                 $
1998      5%       15%      60%       20%      95,500   1,455,301  20%  1,819,126   4,984     65     6,500   77%            0
1999      5%       16%      59%       20%      97,983   1,519,291  20%  1,899,113   5,203     66     6,500   80%            0
2000      6%       17%       57%      20%     100,531   1,587,637 20%  1,984,546   5,437      68     6,500   84%            0
2001      6%       19%       55%      20%     103,144   1,660,730 20%  2,075,912   5,687      69     6,500   87%            0
2002      7%       20%       54%      19%     105,416   1,747,646 20%  2,184,558   5,985      70     6,500   92%            0
2003      7%       22%       53%      18%     107,737   1,840,265 20%  2,300,331   6,302      71     6,500   97%            0
2004      8%       23%       52%      17%     110,110   1,939,058 20%  2,423,823   6,500      71     6,500   100%     500,000
2005      8%       25%       51%      16%     112,535   2,044,545 20%  2,555,681   7,002      74      9,750   72%           0
2006      9%       27%       49%      15%     115,013  2,157,290 20%  2,696,613  7,388        76      9,750   76%           0
2007     10%       29%       48%      14%     117,546   2,277,914 20%  2,847,392   7,801      77      9,750   80%           0
2008     10%       31%       46%      13%     120,134   2,407,093 20%  3,008,866   8,243      79      9,750   85%           0
2009     11%       33%      44%       12%     122,780  2,545,569 20%  3,181,961   8,718       81      9,750   89%           0
2010     12%       36%      41%       11%     125,484  2,694,153 20%  3,367,692   9,227       83      9,750   95%           0
2011     13%       38%       39%      10%     128,247   2,853,736 20%  3,567,170  9,750       84      9,750   100%     500,000
2012     14%       41%       35%      10%     131,071   3,006,153 20%  3,757,692  10,295      87    13,000   79%            0
2013     15%       44%       31%      10%     133,958   3,170,766 20%  3,963,457  10,859      90    13,000   84%            0
2014     16%       48%       26%      10%      136,908  3,348,714 20%  4,185,892  11,468      93    13,000   88%             0
2015     17%       51%       22%      10%      139,923   3,541,249 20%  4,426,561  12,128     96    13,000   93%             0
2016     18%       55%       16%      10%      143,004   3,749,746 20%  4,687,183  12,842     100    13,000   99%            0
2017     20%       59%       11%      10%      146,153   3,975,713 20%  4,969,641  13,000     100    13,000   100%           0
Annual growth                Pop growth 1996-2001       Loss rate
8%       8%                          2.6%               20%
Pop growth 2002-17
2.2%



Page 138
Table A9
KOLKHOZES
Financial operating expenditure with the project
Ex.Rate       3550
Year     Mats & equip.         Elect.          Chems.           Salaries        Other          Total                        $lM3 cons
1996 Dollars                                               % inc
1996             45,127              5,268               0            7,314         18,694         76,403
1997             45,127              5,268               0            7,314         18,694         76,403     0.00
1998             44,549              5,652           19,052          25,118         24,036        118,407     0.55                  0.05
1999             44,144              6,012           33,265          37,582         27,775        148,778     0.26                  0.05
2000              43,200             6,549           63,505          66,662         36,500        216,417      0.45                 0.07
2001              43,200             6,851           66,429          66,662         36,500        219,642      0.01                 0.09
2002              43,200             7,209           69,906          66,662         36,500        223,477      0.02                 0.12
2003              43,200             7,591           73,611          66,662         36,500        227,564      0.02                 0.12
2004              43,200             7,999           77,562          66,662         36,500        231,923      0.02                 0.12
2005              43,200             8,434           81,782          66,662         36,500        236,578      0.02                 0.11
2006              43,200             8,899           86,292          66,662         36,500        241,553      0.02                 0.11
2007              43,200             9,396           91,117          66,662         36,500        246,875      0.02                 0.10
2008              43,200             9,929           96,284          66,662         36,500        252,575      0.02                 0.10
2009              43,200            10,500          101,823          66,662         36,500        258,686      0.02                 0.10
2010              43,200            11,113          107,766          66,662         36,500        265,242      0.03                 0.09
2011              43,200            11,772          114,149          66,662         36,500        272,283      0.03                 0.09
2012              43,200            12,400          120,246          66,662         36,500        279,009      0.02                 0.09
2013              43,200            13,079          126,831          66,662         36,500        286,272      0.03                 0.09
2014              43,200            13,813          133,949          66,662         36,500        294,124      0.03                 0.08
2015              43,200            14,608          141,650          66,662         36,500        302,620      0.03                 0.08
2016              43,200            15,468          149,990          66,662         36,500        311,820      0.03                 0.08
2017              43,200            16,400          159,029          66,662         36,500        321,791      0.03                 0.08
Spares/Mats       Price/KWH          Price/M3     Av. salary/month   Av./day
$4,800            $0.01             $0.03           $43.40          $100
(per Kolkhoz/yr)    KWH/M3            Price/Kg         Real inc
0.33            $2.00            100%
Kg/M3            Staff/kolkhoz: 12
0.016             Cen.Admin: 20



Page 139
Table AIO
KOLKHOZES                                                       Loan terms                                         Net present values
Financial rate of return and tariff calculation              Loan   12,396,000 Discount Rate Income - O&M Total cash flo  Net real trans. Net financial impact
Grace per.    5          12.0%       7,257,320         0        -3,217,616       -2,479,117
Payments    15                  Full cost tariff /1  $   0.74   O&M tariff /1 $          0.16
Interest    7.5%               IRR - full tariff /2     8.4%
Year                Income                                          Expenditure
Net real     Net financial
Debt   Incremental                              Total cash  transactions  impact of project
m3 delivered   Billings   Receipts  Initial investment  Service  investment   Operating   Total        flow /3         /4              /5
1998       528,226   389,324   350,391        6,198,000          0           0      118,407       118,407       231,984    -5,966,016         -5,867,147
1999       867,977   639,733   575,760        6,198,000          0           0      148,778       148,778       426,982    -5,771,018         -5,672,148
2000     1,587,637  1,170,150 1,053,135                0          0          0      216,417       216,417       836,719       836,719            935,588
2001     1,660,730  1,224,023 1,101,620                0          0          0      219,642       219,642       881,978       881,978            980,848
2002     1,747,646  1,288,083 1,159,275                0          0          0      223,477       223,477       935,798       935,798          1,034,667
2003     1,840,265  1,356,347 1,220,712                0 1,877,864           0      227,564     2,105,428       -884,716      993,148          1,092,017
2004     1,939,058  1,429,162 1,286,246                0 1,877,864    500,000       231,923     2,609,787    -1,323,542       554,322            653,192
2005     2,044,545  1,506,910 1,356,219                0 1,877,864           0      236,578     2,114,442       -758,223     1,119,641         1,218,510
2006     2,157,290  1,590,007 1,431,007                0 1,877,864           0      241,553     2,119,417       -688,410     1,189,454         1,288,323
2007     2,277,914  1,678,912 1,511,020                0 1,877,864           0      246,875     2,124,739       -613,719     1,264,145         1,363,014
2008     2,407,093  1,774,121 1,596,709                0 1,877,864           0      252,575     2,130,439       -533,730     1,344,134         1,443,003
2009     2,545,569  1,876,184 1,688,565                0 1,877,864           0      258,686     2,136,550       -447,984     1,429,880         1,528,749
2010     2,694,153  1,985,696 1,787,127                0 1,877,864           0      265,242     2,143,106       -355,979     1,521,885         1,620,754
2011     2,853,736  2,103,315 1,892,983                0 1,877,864    500,000       272,283     2,650,148       -757,164     1,120,700         1,219,569
2012     3,006,153  2,215,652 1,994,087                0 1,877,864           0      279,009     2,156,873       -162,786     1,715,078         1,813,948
2013     3,170,766  2,336,978 2,103,280                0 1,877,864           0      286,272     2,164,137        -60,856     1,817,008         1,915,877
2014     3,348,714  2,468,133 2,221,320                0 1,877,864           0      294,124     2,171,988        49,331      1,927,195         2,026,064
2015     3,541,249  2,610,039 2,349,035                0 1,877,864           0      302,620     2,180,484       168,551      2,046,415         2,145,284
2016     3,749,746  2,763,709 2,487,338                0 1,877,864           0      311,820     2,189,684       297,654      2,175,519         2,274,388
2017     3,975,713  2,930,256 2,637,230                0 1,877,864           0      321,791     2,199,655       437,575      2,315,439         2,414,309
Notes:             Collection rate:   90%
1. Tanff calculations are on a cashflow basis (see note 3.); depreciation is set equal to the amortization of the loan.
2. The financial IRR is calculated for the full tariff, on the basis of the net financial impact of the project (as defined in note 5 below).
3. Total cash flow is defined as total cash receipts less total cash expenditure (inc. debt service) in each period. Debt-financed capital expenditures are netted out of the flow.
4. Net real transactions is cash income less investment and O&M expenditures This includes the value of investments in the year they are made: it excludes debt service.
5. Equal to the net real transactions of the "with project" scenario less the net income stream of the "without project" scenario.



Page 140
Table A15
KOLKHOZES
Economic operating expenditure without the project
Total present                    % of present cost
coverage, RWD   Present coverage,   attributable to 9
(persons)       9 Kolkhozes        Kolkhozes
Ex. Rate                 3550                                148,000           16,730             11%
Year          Mats & equip.          Fuel            Electricity       Salaries           Other               Total           $/M3 cons
1996 Dollars, per year
1996             45,127             10,403            26,339            7,314             8,292              97,474              1.31
1997             45,127             10,403            26,339            7,314             8,292              97,474              1.31
1998             45,127             10,403            26,339            7,314             8,292              97,474              1.31
1999             45,127             10,403            26,339            7,314             8,292              97,474              1.31
2000             45,127             10,403             26,339           7,314             8,292              97,474              1.31
2001             45,127             10,403             26,339           7,314             8,292              97,474              1.31
2002             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314            8,292              97,474              1.31
2003             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314            8,292              97,474              1.31
2004             45,127             10,403             26,339           7,314             8,292              97,474              1.31
2005             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
2006             45,127             10,403             26,339           7,314              8,292             97,474              1.31
2007             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
2008             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
2009             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
2010             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
2011             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
2012             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
2013             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
2014             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
2015             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474               1.31
2016             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
2017             45,127             10,403             26,339            7,314             8,292             97,474              1.31
Structure:          46%                11%                27%               8%               9%                 100%
Price/KWH           $0.05
KWH/M3 prod.          1.42
m3 prod/day          1016
KWH/day            1,443



Page 141
Table A16
KOLKHOZES
Economic operating expenditure with the project
Ex, Rate     3550
Year    Mats & equip.        Elect.          Chems.           Salaries          Other             Total                            $/M3 cons
1996 Dollars                                                  % inc
1996            45,127            26,339               0             7,314           18,694            97,474
1997            45,127            26,339               0             7,314           18,694            97,474       0.00
1998            44,549            28,261           19,052           25,118           24,036           141,016       0.45                     0.07
1999            44,144            30,058           33,265           37,582           27,775           172,824       0.23                    0.06
2000             43,200           32,745           63,505           66,662           36,500           242,613       0.40                     0.09
2001             43,200           34,253           66,429           66,662           36,500           247,044       0.02                     0.10
2002             43,200           36,045           69,906           66,662           36,500           252,313       0.02                     0.14
2003             43,200           37,955           73,611            66,662          36,500           257,928       0.02                     0.13
2004             43,200           39,993           77,562            66,662          36,500           263,918       0.02                     0.13
2005             43,200           42,169           81,782           66,662           36,500           270,313       0.02                     0.13
2006             43,200           44,494           86,292            66,662           36,500          277,148       0.03                     0.12
2007             43,200           46,982           91,117            66,662          36,500           284,461       0 03                     0.12
2008             43,200           49,646           96,284            66,662          36,500           292,292       0.03                     0.12
2009             43,200           52,502          101,823           66,662           36,500           300,688       0.03                     0.11
2010             43,200           55,567          107,766           66,662           36,500           309,695       0.03                     0.11
2011             43,200           58,858          114,149           66,662           36,500           319,370       0.03                     0.11
2012             43,200           62,002          120,246            66,662           36,500          328,610       0.03                     0.10
2013             43,200           65,397          126,831           66,662           36,500           338,590       0.03                     0.10
2014             43,200           69,067          133,949            66,662           36,500          349,378       0.03                     0.10
2015             43,200           73,038          141,650            66,662           36,500          361,051       0.03                     0.10
2016             43,200           77,339          149,990            66,662           36,500          373,691       0.04                     0.09
2017             43,200           81,999          159,029            66,662           36,500          387,390       0.04                     0.09
Spares/Mats      Price/KWH         Price/M3      Av. salary/month     Av./day
$4,800           $0.05            $0.03            $43.40            $100
(per Kolkhoz/yr)   KWH/M3           Price/Kg          Real inc
0.33            $2.00            100%
Kg/M3             Staff/kolkhoz: 12
0.016              Cen.Admin: 20



Page 142
Table A 17
Estimated welfare gains from improved water supply - Kolkhozes
H.Conn      Yard tap    Stand pipe  Notes
Demand curves                                                                    I
Time spent fetching water (per household/day)  2.0          2.0          2.0
Average monthly wage, M                      40,000       40,000       40,000
Average hourly wage, $                        0.07         0.07          0.07
Average monthly exp. on water, $              4.23         4.23         4.23
p1 $/M3                                       1.17         1.17          1.17    2
ql M3/month                                    3.6          3.6          3.6     3
p2 $ M/3                                       0            0           0.23     4
q2 M3/month                                   27.3         14.7          8.4
ALPHA                                         1.35         1.55          1.88
BETA                                          -0.05        -0.11        -0.20
Demand elasticity (p1)                        -6.6         -3.1         -1.67
Consumer surplus increase ($/household/month)
A: Reduced cost of water                      4.23         4.23         3.38
B: Increased consumption                     13.91         6.51         2.25
Total, $                                      18.13        10.74        5.63
Av. gain per M3 total consumption
Total, $                                      0.66         0.73         0.67
Notes
1. The estimated curve is: P = ALPHA + BETA Q
2. Imputed value of fetching time per M3.
3. Consumption at present is estimated at 17 litres/person/day; 7 persons per household
4. Expected value of fetching time per meter for the improved standpipe system



Page 143
MONTHLY HOUSEHOLD WELFARE GAINS FOR DIFFERENT TYPES OF SERVICE - KOLKHOZES
1.4 -                             Welfare gain - Household connection
1.2
co 0.8
f  0.6          -
0.4
0.2
0
0   1  2   3  4   5  6   7  8  9  10 11  12  13 14 15  16 17  18  19 20 21 22 23 24  25 26 27
M3/month
1.6                                      Welfare gain - Yard tap
1.4
1.2  _      __                     .6
1                                                DeAn curve
Cl~)
Z' 0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0      1     2       3     4      5      6      7      8      9      9     10    11    12    13    14
M3/month
2                                 Welfare gain - Stand pipe upgrade
1.8
1.6
1.4
1.2   _________________ _    1736                           Demand curve
~0.8              A
0.6                                                   B
0.4-
0.2             D                                      E
0        1       2        2        3        4        5        5       6        7        8        8        9
M3/month



Page 144
Table A18
KOLKHOZES
Baseline estimate of economic rate of return                                                                       Net present value|  -850,896
Discount rate    12%
Economic internal rate of return    10.6%
Economic
Year         Production                     Water delivered                  benefits               Economic costs                Net benefit
Increase in    Economic   Operating (with            (Economic
Household                          consumer   investment  project-without                 benefit -
m3 produced  Loss ratio  Total, m3   connexion   Yard Tap   Stand pipe    surplus  costs /1      project)      Total     economic cost)
1996       370,967   80%          74,193                                                          0             0             0             0
1997       370,967   80%          74,193     12,881     22,293      39,019                        0             0             0             0
1998       855,041    62%        528,226     91,704    158,719    277,803       363,190    5,413,100        43,542     5,456,642    -5,093,452
1999     1,221,302   49%       1,057,932    183,666    317,883    556,383       727,396    5,413,100        75,350     5,488,451    -4,761,054
2000     1,984,546   20%       1,587,637    275,627    477,046    834,964      1,091,603          0        145,139      145,139        946,464
2001     2,075,912   20%       1,660,730    304,002    526,158    830,569      1,143,384          0        149,570      149,570        993,813
2002     2,184,558    20%      1,747,646    333,999    578,076    835,571      1,204,593          0        154,840      154,840       1,049,754
2003     2,300,331    20%      1,840,265    366,956    635,117    838,192      1,269,915          0        160,454      160,454       1,109,460
2004     2,423,823   20%       1,939,058    403,165    697,786    838,107      1,339,694     436,681       166,444      603,125        736,569
2005     2,555,681    20%      2,044,545    442,947    766,639    834,959      1,414,310          0        172,839      172,839       1,241,471
2006     2,696,613    20%      2,157,290    486,654    842,286    828,351      1,494,175          0        179,674      179,674       1,314,501
2007     2,847,392    20%      2,277,914    534,674    925,397    817,843      1,579,743          0        186,987      186,987       1,392,757
2008     3,008,866    20%      2,407,093    587,432   1,016,709    802,952     1,671,510          0        194,818      194,818       1,476,692
2009     3,181,961    20%      2,545,569    645,396   1,117,031    783,141     1,770,019          0        203,214      203,214       1,566,805
2010     3,367,692    20%      2,694,153    709,079   1,227,253    757,821     1,875,863          0        212,222      212,222       1,663,641
2011     3,567,170    20%      2,853,736    779,047   1,348,350    726,339     1,989,694     436,681       221,896      658,577       1,331,116
2012     3,757,692    20%      3,006,153    855,918   1,481,397    668,839     2,099,390          0        231,137      231,137       1,868,254
2013     3,963,457    20%      3,170,766    940,374   1,627,571    602,820     2,218,003          0        241,116      241,116       1,976,887
2014     4,185,892    20%      3,348,714   1,033,164   1,788,169    527,380    2,346,370          0        251,904      251,904       2,094,466
2015     4,426,561    20%      3,541,249   1,135,110   1,964,614    441,525    2,485,410          0        263,577      263,577       2,221,834
2016     4,687,183    20%      3,749,746   1,247,116   2,158,470    344,161    2,636,134          0        276,217      276,217       2,359,917
2017     4,969,641    20%      3,975,713   1,370,173   2,371,453    234,086    2,799,648          0        289,916      289,916       2,509,732
Loan     $ 12,396,000
Tax rate          15%
Adjustment for tax     0.87



Page 145
KOLKHOZES
OPERATING EXPENDITURE WITHOUT PROJECT
Ex. Rate    3,550
Mats &
Year    equip.       Fuel     Electricity    Salaries   Other       Total
Thousands of 1996 Manats                         US $
1996     1,417,200    326,688     24,540      229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
1997     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
1998     1,417,200    326,688     24,540      229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
1999     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2000     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692     260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2001     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2002     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2003     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2004     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692     260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2005     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692     260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2006     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2007     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2008     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2009     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2010     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2011     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2012     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2013     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2014     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2015     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2016     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520    636,203
2017     1,417,200    326,688      24,540     229,692    260,400   2,258,520   636,203
Prod growth
-1



Page 146                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect
ANNEX S: TERMS OF REFERENCE
ANNEX S-1: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
ADVISORY SERVICES
A. Background
I.    The Central Asian Republics of Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan
are involved in the Aral Sea Program, which was designed in cooperation with the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP), the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP), and the Bank to improve environmental,
social, and economic conditions in the regions affected by the Aral Sea crisis. The Bank has taken a leading role
in the development and implementation of the Program, including donor coordination, technical assistance to all
projects, and capacity building assistance to regional institutions.
2.     The Velayet of Dashkhovuz is the area of Turkmenistan most affected by the crisis, being to the north of
the country and closest to the Aral Sea, and receiving its potable and irrigation water supplies from the irrigation
canals fed by the Amu Darya River. The water from these canals has in the past been heavily polluted with
residues from upstream industries, particularly agriculture, which has had severe effects on the health of the
population and agricultural production. The Velayet has a population of 951,000, of whom 300,000 live in
Dashkhovuz and eight etrap centers and 651,000 on collective farms (kolhozes), of whom only half have access
to sonme sort of piped supply.
Existing Water Supplies.
3.     The principal potable water sources for the project area are the irrigation canals fed from the Amu Darya
River, augmented by small quantities of groundwater in areas distant from irrigation canals. The potable water
supplied in the velayet is obtained from boreholes, which abstract from the shallow aquifers adjacent and
hydraulically linked to the irrigation canals. The quality of the borehole water is highly dependant on the quality
of water in the irrigation canals, as the effect of the shallow aquifer is limited to filtering out suspended solids.
The boreholes are typically 10 to 25 m deep, and between 4 and 12 are provided for each system, depending on
the size of the settlement and the well performance. The water is pumped to a nearby ground reservoir where
chlorine is added. The distribution pump station then draws water from the reservoir and pumps directly into the
distribution system.
4.     Maintenance of the water supply systems falls far below acceptable standards, as a result of lack of spares
and chemicals, and inadequate funding. Very few of the systems have operating chlorination systems, with the
result that water is usually delivered to supply with no disinfection. Pumps and pumping station pipe work is
usually a mixture of different sizes and types of equipment, much of it broken down, which leads to frequent
supply failures. In most towns, water is provided for between 4 and 6 hours per day, and often this limited supply
does not reach consumers at the extremities of the distribution systems. The systems themselves suffer from high
leakage and frequent bursts.
5.    The majority of the population are supplied through street standpipes, although some households have yard
taps, and in Dashkhovuz city there are a limited number of house connections. Because system operation is often
limited to 6 hours per day, the street standpipes are either broken or missing, so that a large proportion of the
water supplied by the system runs to waste. Similarly, yard taps are often left on, and water collected in
containers, or left to run into gardens.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                     Page 147
B. Project Objectives
6.     The objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) improve water supply and sanitation in seven etrap centers
and nine collective farms in Dashkhovuz velayat; and (ii) initiate institutional changes in the water and sanitation
sector to ensure that the project is financially and technically sustainable. The proposed project will comprise
four main components: (a) water supply improvements: (b) sanitation and health; (c) institutional strengthening;
and (d) project management and construction supervision.
C. Overall Project Management
7.    Implementation of the specific components would be the responsibility of the respective implementation
agency (Ministry of Health (MOH) for the Sanitation and Health Component, the Ministry of Water Resources
(MWR) for the Institutional Strengthening Component, and the local authorities in Dashhawuz Velayat and the
participating etraps for the Water Supply and Distribution Improvements Component). To support project
management and coordination responsibility, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established to support
and coordinate overall project activities including, administration, project planning, organizational development,
operating procedure development, implementation oversight, training, and technical assistance coordination. The
PIU is responsible for ensuring that the requirements of Bank Guidelines on procurement of services and goods
are understood and met, as well as disbursement responsibilities. In addition to overall coordination, the PIIJ
would be responsible for common implementation functions such as project accounting, procurement,
disbursements, consolidation of quarterly and annual progress reports, and annual work programs and budgets.
The PIU would also provide training and technical assistance coordination, project supervision, and assistance to
the Component Coordinators (CCs).
8.     The PIU reports to the Deputy Minister of Water Resources, responsible for Construction and Operations.
It is being staffed with a Director (local), an Economist (local), a Health Specialist (local) an
Accountant/Disbursement Expert (local), an interpreter/translator (local), a Secretary (local), a Project Management
Specialist (foreign), and a Procurement Specialist (foreign). In addition, the project will finance a limited number
of short-term consultants such a Financial Management Specialist, and a Computer Specialist (to help design a
Project Management and Information System). The PIU will be provided with suitable office space, and local
communications, and office equipment, although the consultants should be prepared to arrange for their own
logistical support in transportation, international communications and lodging.
9.     The project is expected to be approved by the World Bank Board by end of May 1997. The loan is
expected to be effective by end of August 1997. The PIU has begun operations with financing from an advance
approved by the Bank in November 1996 (PPF). The consultant services for project management, administration
and construction supervision (this contract) will be divided into two phases: (i) establishment of the PIU and
preparation and execution of initial procurement actions for the major technical assistance contracts to the MWR
and the participating velayat; (ii) continued procurement of necessary consultants, initiation of purchasing of
material and equipment, and setting up arrangements for rehabilitation of selected facilities; supervising on-going
work and providing general support for policy and operational aspects of the project's execution to the project's
conclusion. In addition, the consultant will be expected to train PIU staff and Component Coordinators (CCs) in
the implementing agencies/departments in how to meet Bank Guidelines, operating procedures and reporting
requirements, and design and implement a Management Information System for project activities. Consultants
selected for phase one will be expected, if performance warrants and Loan funding becomes available, also to
provide services in the second phase.
D. PIU Functions
10.    The PIU is the focal point for the project and is responsible for its overall coordination. The PIU headed



Page 148                                    Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect
by its director will act as a service agency and agent to the implementing agencies/departments for those consulting
services, equipment and rehabilitation activities to be provided to them under the project. Acting in cooperation
and in consultation with the implementing agencies, it has delegated authority for preparing and recommending
payments through the preparation and administrative approval of Bank Withdrawal Applications, and manages the
procurement and signing (along with another designated official) of any contracts and payments.
11.   The general functions and responsibilities of the PIU are as follows:
(i)    Administration
PIU organization procurement and purchasing
Supply and Logistics - ensure goods, equipment and facilities are available.
Human Resources - ensure recruitment of qualified staff.
(ii)   Project Planning
-     Policy development
-     Operating procedures development
-     Budget Development
-     Implementation Planning
(iii)   Organization Development
-     PIU Organization
-     PIU Staff Selection
-     Development of Organization Policy
-     Staff Orientation and Training
-     Project Organization and Definition
(iv)   Operating Procedure Development
-     PIU Administrative Procedures
-     Project Administrative Procedures and Guidelines
-     Procurement Procedures
-     Financial Management
-     Planning and Evaluation
-     Reporting
(v)   Implementation Oversight and Coordination
-     PIU Establishment
-     Project Start-up and Operations Coordination
-     Component-Specific Coordination
-     Government Agencies Coordination
-     Technical Assistance Coordination
-     External Training Coordination
(vi)   Training and Technical Assistance Coordination
-     Training of staff and TA Needs Assessment



Turkmeniistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                 Page 149
TA Coordination
Training Evaluation
TA Evaluation
E. PIU Organization and Staffing
12.   The PIU is being headed by a Director with demonstrated management and engineering abilities, and
knowledge of local budgetary processes, and vested with authority to carry out the responsibilities of the PIU at
the ministerial level and act as project spokesperson in relations between the implementing agencies and the Bank.
For the Water Supply Improvement and the Institutional Strengthening Components, the PIU will act as the
coordinator of necessary inputs to the velayet and etraps, and facilitate the execution of the technical services
offered to the etraps
F. Scope of the Consulting Services
General
13.    The services will be provided by a consulting firm (consultants) over a 40 month period starting from four
weeks after contract signature.  The (consultants) firm  will be responsible for assisting the PIU and the
implementing agencies in setting up systems and managing and executing their procurement actions. In addition,
the consultants will provide selected technical inputs to the activities financed under the Water Supply Component,
which while executed and directly connected to relevant agencies of the implementing velayat and etrap
administrations, will depend administratively upon the PIU for contract administration and support. Accordingly,
the first six months (phase one) will be dedicated to intense assistance to the PIU and the implementing agencies
in pre-contract award activities including design of a Project Financial and Management Information System
covering procurement, status of project components, and Project Work Programs and Budgets. Short term
specialized consultant services are expected during this phase to help design the Project Management Information
System. In addition, during this Phase One, and assuming Loan effectiveness and the availability of Loan funding,
a review of consultant performance will be carried out and, if positive, authorization will be given for the
consultant to proceed with Phase Two Activities.
14.   Phase Two will involve managing the day-to-day operations of the PIU in procurement, financial and
accounting systems, information systems, and monitoring and coordination activities as well as initiation of the
procurement of equipment and material and the design and execution of rehabilitation activities.
G. Implementation of Components
15.   The respective agencies would be responsible for implementation of their components. As noted before,
the Project Implementation Unit would be responsible for overall project coordination. At the level of Dashhawus
Velayat, a PIU Regional Coordinator (RC) has been appointed to coordinate/oversee all project activities for the
velayat.  In addition to the RC, Component Coordinators (CCs) would be appointed for each of the three
components. The Regional Coordinator also serves as Component Coordinator for the Institutional Strengthening
Component. Two CCs would be appointed for the Sanitation and Health Component (Sanitary Epidemiological
Services and Center of Health), and one for the Construction Management Component. The CCs would be the
focal points for all project activities related to their components. The CCs, through the RC would be the first
point of contact between MOH, the PIU, the Bank, and the PC. These arrangements would remove the need to
create separate structures within each implementing agency. A seminar was held during Project Appraisal, with
the participation of staff of the PIU and key officials of implementing agencies for better understanding of the
project, and proposed implementation arrangements. In addition, a project launch workshop will be organized
immediately after Board Presentation.



Page 150                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
16.   With support from technical assistance, all CCs would be responsible for coordinating the planning and
implementation of project activities in their respective components. Specifically, the CCs would be responsible
for the preparation of the annual work programs and budgets. The CCs would also help ensure that project
accounts and records are maintained, and that supporting documentation is kept in an organized manner for the
preparation of funding requests from the Special Account. In addition, they would be responsible for the
preparation of quarterly and annual progress reports. At the velayat level, the CCs would be responsible for
coordinating the planning and implementation of project activities at the etrap level, consolidating the annual work
programs and budgets and ensuring that the project financing requirements are incorporated in the velayat budgets
before they are sent to the PIU and subsequently to the MO during the annual budget preparation process. They
would also review and consolidate the annual programs and annual reports before they are sent to the PIU.
H. Terms of Reference
17.   TOR have been prepared as a guide for project planning and consulting firms. The Terms of
Reference are organized as follows:
(a)    Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
(i)    Project Management Specialist
(ii)   Procurement Specialist
(iii)   Short-term (Financial Specialist)
(iv)   Short-term (Computer Specialist)
(b)    Construction Supervision
(v)    Construction Engineers (supervisors 2 positions)
(vi)   Short-term Construction Specialists
18.   The work will initially involve assisting the PIU to review the tender documents for each contract package,
managing the tendering process, assisting the PIU to carry out tender evaluation and subsequent award of contract.
The Project Management Consultant, Procurement Specialist, and short-term Financial and Computer Specialists
will provide direct assistance to the PIU, both at the level of Ashgabat and Dashkhovuz. The Consultant will
continue to assist the PIU in Ashgabat in carrying out its duties as outlined above throughout the duration of the
project. During construction the Consultant, through the field team, will act as Engineer under the FIDIC
Conditions of Contract, and will be responsible for construction supervision and management, using local staff
recruited, among others, from the organizations responsible for construction supervision at the present time in the
project area. The Consultant will be required to carry out training for these staff to ensure that they are aware and
capable of maintaining the standards of supervision required. Terms of Reference for the specific positions are as
follows: Recruitment of consultants will be undertaken in two phases: (a) under PPF financing already
approved by the World Bank, the Project Management, Procurement, and Financial Management Specialists
will start work as soon as contractual arrangements are finalized; (b) once the loan becomes effective, the
consultant's contract will be extended for specific periods as described in the individual TOR and conditional
to satisfactory performance.
POSITION (i): PROJECT MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
A. Job Description
19.   The Project Management Specialist would report to the PIU Director. His/her main responsibility would



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                   Page 151
be to advise the PIU Director in all aspects of the coordination and follow-up of project implementation and, most
specifically, on the coordination of technical assistance and on financial management matters. As such, he/she
would:
(a)    help organize the launching of project activities by working closely with the Component
Coordinators (CCs) to organize workshops or seminars in Ashgabat and in Dashkhovuz before the start of project
implementation. The purpose of these workshops would be to familiarize key project implementation staff with
the project objectives, contractual implications, implementation arrangements, and financial mechanisms to be put
in place.
(b)    assist in coordination among implementing agencies ensuring that technical work is completed in
close collaboration with counterparts;
(c)    prepare TOR for local staff and provide in-the job training and formal training through
seminars/workshops on overall project management and organization;
(d)    set up a system for the coordination and follow up of project activities to ensure an effective flow
of information and feedback between Ashgabat, Dashkhovuz and the participating etraps. This would entail
preparing and reaching agreement on: (i) the standards and timetable for the preparation of annual work programs
and budgets; (ii) the review and clearing of the work programs; (iii) the format and schedule of
the reporting of project activities; (iv) practical steps for the flow of funds; and (v) the setting-up of an effective
communications system between Ashgabat and Dashkhovuz and the etraps;
(e)    preparation of Project Implementation Manual (PIM) that would summarize: (i) procedures for
monitoring project implementation; (ii) processing of withdrawal applications under the loan; (iii) methods of
procurement to be followed according to the Procurement Schedule in the Loan Agreement; (iv) guidelines for the
use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and overall project funds; and (v) procedures for replenishment of special
and project accounts;
(f)    design and maintain a system of record keeping for all formal activities and transactions of project
activities at the velayet and etrap levels and in Ashgabat. The project files thus defined would include but not be
limited to the following documents: (i) status of project accounts; (ii) all procurement information; (iii) status of
project components; and (iv) project plan, including organization and staffing, milestones, issues, achievements
and critical events (workshops/study tours);
(g)    help the CCs identify training needs and propose adequate programs to meet those needs whether
on the job, within the country or outside the country. He/she would also help design evaluation modalities for
the selection of staff to be trained; and
(h)    help consolidate quarterly and annual progress reports, annual work programs and budgets, training
programs, and accounts prepared/maintained by the participating agencies into single "project documents" to be
sent to the Bank.
B. Assignment
20.    Twenty seven months (12 months PY1, 10 months PY2, three months PY3, and 2 months PY4. His/her
contract would start with PP financing.
C. Background Experience and Qualifications



Page 152                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
21.   Candidates for the job of Project Management Specialist should have a university degree (master's degree
or higher) in economics, business management or public administration. In addition, they should have acquired
extensive and meaningful operational experience in economic development projects, with some relevant experience
in economies in transition for a minimum of 10 years in well defined and structured situations. They should be
able to demonstrate proven ability to work in the context of a multi-disciplinary and multi-cultural team. Russian
language knowledge would be an advantage/
POSITION (ii): PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
A. Job Description:
22    The Procurement Specialist reports to the PIU Director. He/She would:
(a)    develop the procurement manual (as part of the Project Implementation Manual) with guidelines
corresponding to the procurement arrangements proposed under the project and described both in the SAR and
the Loan agreement and in accordance with the "Procurement Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA credits"
dated January 1995, as revised in January and August 1996). Key topics to be included in the manual include a
presentation of the methods of procurement to be followed under the project; the distribution of direct
responsibilities for the velayet; the PIU for each method; a description of the procedures for the review of
procurement decisions by the Bank; and a description of the provision for preferences for domestic manufacturers
and contractors;
(b)    organize procurement arrangements for the procurement by ICB, LIB, IS, and DS according to
the Procurement Schedule in the Loan Agreement;
(c)    consolidate the lists of goods to be procured under the project into appropriate bidding packages
for the most economic and effective method of procurement and distribution of goods;
(d)    prepare all bidding documents necessary related to goods and services, and technical assistance
to be procured under the project;
(e)    organize, at the start of project implementation, workshops or seminars for CCs to explain the
procurement arrangements under the project using the manual produced. Special emphasis would be placed during
those seminars on the respective roles of the CCs and the PIU in procurement, coordination of procurement
matters and the links between the annual work programs and budgets and procurement under the project;
(f)    establish and maintain a list of prospective bidders who have indicated interest in bidding for the
goods and services;
(g)    based on information provided by implementing agencies, incorporate into the appropriate bidding
packages the requirements for staff training in the use and maintenance of the equipment procured;
(h)    ensure that the services and/or goods contracted for are provided or delivered as stipulated in the
contracts; and
(i)    assist the local implementing agencies to carry out the procurement of services (works) at the local
level when applicable using procedures acceptable to the Bank.
B. Assignment



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                   Page 153
23.   Twenty four months (12 months PY1, 10 months PY2, 2 months PY3). The initial contract would be
financed under a PPF.
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications
24.   Candidates for the post of procurement specialist should have a master's degree in economics, finance,
business management or engineering and a minimum of 10 to 15 years of experience in project implementation
and management, procurement management, or in a senior position, responsible for logistics and materials and
equipment acquisition with a major company or institution operating internationally.
POSITION (iii): FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
A. Job Description:
25.    The Financial Management Specialist will:
(a)    work closely with the PIU Director, Project Management Specialist, and the Procurement Specialist
to set up simple but effective financial and accounting management systems to record project activities, produce
project accounts and quarterly as well as annual financial information reports, and generally to monitor financial
project activities;
(b)    make a diagnostic of the existing budgetary planning, execution, control and reporting procedures,
the accounting methods by assessing the existing accounting system (reliability, accuracy, control mechanisms,
reporting procedures, operational relevance and actual utilization), the level of qualifications and effectiveness of
the personnel, identification of the strong points and the weak points;
(c)    explain to the personnel of the velayet and etrap financial departments, the accounting and financial
reporting requirements under the project. (The PIM would facilitate this work);
(d)   identify improvements or modifications that would be needed to the existing systems to satisfy the
project requirements;
(e)    maintain records of all expenditures made out of the Special Account and Project Account and
prepare withdrawal applications for payment or replenishment of special account; and
(f)    design a simple accounting system to document and record all transactions and expenditures related
to project activities. This would include a simple chart of accounts that is related to the local system. Procedures
to maintain the accounts through regular posting of project transactions and monthly production of reports
(including trial balances) should be defined. The proposed system would include specific features to manage and
trace the status of the following: (i) the Bank; (ii) Loan Account; (iii) Special Account; (iv) Project account; and
(v) the Statement of Expenditures (SOEs); and
(g)   train the local PIU accountant in international accepted accounting practices to enable to take over
full responsibilities once the technical assistance is completed.
Assignment
26.    Eight months PYI. His/her assignment could start with PPFfinancing.
Background, Experience and Qualifications



Page 154                                      Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
27.    The Financial Management Specialist should have a master's degree in economics, finance,or business
management and a minimum of 10 years experience in financial management or accountancy with a water utility
or major organization.
POSITION (iv): COMPUTER SPECIALIST
A. Job Description
28.    The Computer Specialist will be responsible for designing and installing a computerized management
information system (MIS) at the PIU to facilitate the implementation of the project. He/she will:
(a)    identify the requirements of the project at all levels for a good Ml-, working closely with the PIU
Director, Project Management, Procurement, and Financial Specialists, and the accountant;
(b)    design a computer system that meets the needs identified, and as appropriate, prepare the
specifications necessary for the PIU to initiate procurement actions. This would include the design or adaptation
of a software package that is appropriate;
(c)    identify training needs for the personnel expected to run the systems, and
(d)    design, organize, and conduct the training of project personnel as appropriate.
B. Assignment
29.    Two months PYI with possibility of an extension of a further two months if deemed necessary.
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications
30.    Candidates for the post of computer specialist would have a university degree in computer science or
management information. In addition, they should have practical, hands-on experience of at least 10 years in
designing, installing and managing information systems in either a major industrial company, government,
development project, or accounting firms.
POSITION (v): CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERS (supervisors 2 positions)
A. Job Description
31.    During construction, the Construction Engineers, will be responsible for field supervision of the
construction work by the contractors. He/she will be expected to utilize staff from existing organizations within
the project area that in the past have had responsibility for construction supervision, but should allow for training
of such staff in the methods, procedures and standards expected from site supervision by the Bank prior to
commencement of work on site. Their tasks will include, but not necessarily be limited to:
(i)    Preparation of a detailed construction management plan including an environmental
management plan, schedules for construction, bidding, financing including
disbursement of the proceeds of the loan and budget appropriation by the GoT, final
testing, commissioning and start-up of all project facilities;
(ii)   Monitor the delivery and secure storage of materials and equipment;



Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project                                   Page 155
(iii)   Review shop drawings prepared by the contractors and equipment manufacturers and suppliers;
(iv)   Monitor the contractors' topographic surveys and setting out of the works to ensure correct
alignments and elevations of the facilities;
(v)    Inspect materials and equipment delivered to site and witness tests of materials and equipment to
be incorporated into the works, if necessary at the manufacturers' premises;
(vi)   Supervise, inspect, measure and control the quality of the construction of the works and the
installation of equipment to ensure compliance with the drawings and specifications;
(vii)   Review the contractors safety and environmental protection plans and supervise the implementation
of all safety and environmental protection measures;
(viii)  Maintain records of progress of the works and the results of inspections and test of materials and
equipment, and all construction related activities;
(ix)   Issue instructions to the contractors and equipment suppliers in connection with the construction
of the works and in accordance with the contract documents;
(x)    Make recommendations and issue instructions, with the approval of the PIU to contractors on the
extent of special inspections and testing required and to be carried out in connection with the
construction of the works;
(xi)   Compare actual progress with scheduled progress and advise the PIU of any developments that
could delay completion. Recommend any actions necessary by the contractor or the GoT to
facilitate timely completion of construction;
(xii)   Record any change or previously unknown conditions that may require modifications to the design
and/or specifications of the works, advise the PIU of the change, and recommend appropriate
action; prepare any necessary work orders with the approval of the PIU;
(xiii)  Convene and attend monthly meetings with the contractor to review progress; prepare minutes of
such meetings for general circulation;
(xiv)  Check, agree with the contractors and authorize interim payments for all contracts in accordance
with the contract: evaluate claims by the contractor for additional payments and extensions of time
and make appropriate recommendations to the GoT;
(xv)   Provide independent advice to the PIU in the resolution of disputes between the GoT on one hand
and contractors and/or suppliers on the other;
(xvi)  Provide advice and suggestions to the PIU on the overall construction works, and attend meetings
concerning project implementation as and when required by GoT;
(xvii)  Prepare monthly progress reports for the PIU summarizing construction progress and
the status of expenditure on the works;
(xviii) Supervise final pressure tests of the major pipelines, and of all equipment start-up and
commissioning. Inspect and approve all completed works and check contractors completed or as-



Page 156                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
built schedules of quantities. Make recommendations to the PIU on the issuance of the certificate
of completion; and
(xix)  Ensure that on completion of the works that the contractors provide such records and
manufacturer's manuals that are necessary for the operation and maintenance of the
works. Check the contractor's as-built drawings and compile a scheme specific
operating manual for each project, including design philosophy and criteria, materials
specifications, scheme layout and as-built drawings and individual plant operating
manuals.
B. Assigmnent
32.   Twelve months in PY1, and 8 months in PY2 for Chief Construction Supervisor, and 12 months in PY1,
and 6 months in PY2 for second Construction Supervisor.
C. Background, Experience and Qualification
33.   The construction engineers should have a recognized degree in civil engineering and a minimum of 15
years post graduate experience, of which at least six years should have been supervising construction of public
health schemes in developing countries. At least one of the Chief Construction Supervisor's recent supervisory
positions should have been as Resident Engineer or equivalent.
POSITION (v): Short-Term Construction specialists (Mechanical, electrical and other)
A. Job Description for Mechanical Engineer
34.   The mechanical engineer will form part of the construction supervision team, and will report to the
construction engineer. His/her duties will include:
(a)    Advise and assist the construction supervision team in matters relating to mechanical
plant;
(b)    Review shop drawings prepared by the contractors and equipment manufacturers and
suppliers;
(c)    Inspect mechanical equipment delivered to the sites and witness tests at manufacturer's premises
if necessary;
(d)    Advise on, an directly supervise as appropriate, installation of mechanical plant;
(e)    Supervise final tests of pumps and other mechanical equipment, and the initial setting to work of
the systems; and
(f) Assist with compilation of the scheme specific operating manuals for the scheme.
B. Assigmnent
35.   Four months in short visits at times as dictated by the progress of the works in PYI and PY2..-
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect                                  Page 157
36.    The mechanical engineer should have a degree in mechanical engineering and at least 10 years post-
graduate experience, at least 6 years should have been on public health schemes. He/she should have experience
in the supervision of installation of electro-submersible pumps, and centrifugal pumping installation.
A. Job Description for Electrical Engineer
37.   The electrical engineer will form part of the construction supervision team, and will report to the
construction engineer. His/her duties will include:
(a)    Advise and assist the construction supervision team in matters relating to electrical
plant and equipment (switchgear, control systems, transformers, pump motors and the like);
(b)    Review shop drawings prepared by the contractors and equipment manufacturers and
suppliers;
(c)    Inspect electrical equipment delivered to the sites and witness tests at manufacturer's premises if
necessary;
(d)    Advise on, an directly supervise as appropriate, installation of electrical plant;
(e)    Supervise final tests of electrical equipment and the initial setting to work of the systems;; and
(f) Assist with compilation of the scheme specific operating manuals for the scheme.
B. Assignment
38.    Four months in short visits at times as dictated by the progress of the works in PY1 and PY2.
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications
39.   The electrical engineer should have a degree in electrical engineering and at least 10 years post-graduate
experience, at least 6 years should have been on public health schemes. He/she should have experience in the
supervision of installation of control equipment, transformers, and pump sets.
Other Specialists
40.          It is expected that other specialists such as process engineer, contracts specialists and training
advisors will be required at times and for durations that may only be determined during the course of the
consultancy. An allowance of 6-person months has been allowed for these inputs in the project budget in PYI
and PY2.
Reporting
41.    The consultant will be required to prepare the following specific reports and documents, in both English
and Russian. Please note that this may be in addition to reports referred to in the attached annex and other
sections of the scope of work, and are seen as the key Project Monitoring and evaluation reports:
(a)    Draft Project Implementation Manual (PIM). This will prepared in order to facilitate the
management and implementation of the project. The PIM will summarize procedures for monitoring project
implementation, processing of withdrawal applications under the loan, various methods of procurement to be



Page 158                                      Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Proiect
followed according to the Procurement Schedule in the Loan Agreement, use of Statement of Expenditures and
overall project funds, procedures for replenishment of special and project accounts. The PIM will be prepared
by the foreign project management and procurement specialists in the PIU, and will be translated intro Russian
The PIU's foreign specialists will be required to organize training for the PIU's local staff, and the Component
Coordinators, in order to ensure an understanding of the procedures specified in the PIM. Submission of a
satisfactory draft of the PIM to the Bank will be a condition of Loan Effectiveness;
(b)    Project Implementation Manual. Following approval by the PIU and the Bank of the draft,
prepare and issue 25 copies in Russian and 10 copies in English;
(c)    Quarterly Progress Reports. These will summarize progress on all components of the project.
The first report will be issued three months after Loan Effectiveness. The reports will include: (i) a summary of
project activities by component; (ii) a description of the main achievements against agreed implementation targets
and disbursement schedules, and the problems encountered; (iii) recommendations on how to solve problems and
comments on progress in implementing previous recommendations; (iv) a description of component activities; (v)
a presentation of the financial situation of the project in terms of actual versus budget for the major expenditure
categories and the financing of these categories; (vi) a presentation of the final situation of each component.
(d)    Annual Progress Reports. At the end of each calendar year, the PIU will prepare with the help
of the consultants, annual progress reports. The annual reports will follow the same formats as the quarterly
reports and will highlight major activities undertaken during the year.
(e)    Final Report. On completion of the assignment a detailed report will be submitted, which will
compare the performance of the project against performance indicators. It will report on actual progress compared
to anticipated progress at the start of the project, and will comment on lessons learned from this project which
should be incorporated into other projects, by way of improved project design or implementation arrangements
and procedures. A total of 25 copies of the report will be submitted in both English and Russian.
Program
42.    Preparation of detailed engineering designs and bid documents is already underway. The project has
already been appraised and is expected to be negotiated in early April 1997. Board approval by the Bank is
expected by June 1997, and loan effectiveness by September 1997. This consultancy is expected to be negotiated
by April/May 1997 in time to assist the PIU with the bidding process for the construction contracts once the loan
becomes effective. Construction activities are expected to begin in January 1998 and be completed by July 1999.
The consultancy assignment will run through to August 1999, to allow the Consultant to manage the
commissioning of all schemes.
43.    The program for the assignment will be driven by the anticipated progress on the construction project.
However, the following milestones should be included by the Consultant in his overall program:
-      Design of project accounting and financial management system - by the end of
Month 2 of the assignment;
-      Procurement of initial batch of computers and office equipment - by the end of
Month 2;
-      Issue of draft Project Implementation Manual - by the end of Month 3;
-      installation of the project management and information system - by the end of



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                  Page 159
Month 4;
-      Issue of final PIM - within one month of receipt of comments on the draft.
Logistics
44.   The Consultant will be provided with office space in both Ashgabat and Dashowuz, including office
supplies. The consultant will be responsible for accommodation and transport for the foreign staff, and for non
site-based local staff as required. Certain equipment might be purchased by the Consultant for use by the
Consultant and the PIU on the project and will be handed over to the PIU on completion of the assignment. This
may include:
-      12 desktop computers, with keyboard, monitor, and Windows based software (MS
office, MS Project, etc.);
-     4 Laserjet printers;
-      2 photocopiers; and
-      2 phone/fax machines;
-      12 UPS systems
45.    Staff based on site, responsible for the construction supervision will be provided with office space,
furniture, equipment and transport through the construction contracts. Housing for these staff will be the
responsibility of the Consultant.



Page 160                                     Turkmenistan: Water Suptplv and Sanitation Proiect
ANNEX S-2: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
GENERAL INFORMATION
Background
Turkmenistan achieved political independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. At that time the country inherited
the organizational structure of the former Soviet Union for the provision of water, sanitation and wastewater
services (the sector). Essentially that system assigned responsibility for the sector to the Ministry of Housing and
Commnunal Services (MHCS), and the operating utilities at the municipal level had little control over the planning,
design, funding or construction of the facilities they were charged to operate. Turkmenistan continued that system
in the early years of its independence, but then abolished the MHCS as a ministry and converted the regional or
velayet offices of the MHCS to "trusts" with substantially the same responsibilities they had before when they
reported to a central ministry instead of to a velayet. However, there is a lack of clarity about the roles of the
many national and regional (velayet) organizations with responsibilities that effect the sector, and this confusion
adversely impacts on the abilities of the local sector utilities to meet their obligations.
Purpose
The goals of the Turkmenistan Water Supply and Sanitation project are to (1) improve water supply and sanitation
in seven etrap capital cities and nine collective farms in Dashkhovuz Velayet and (2) initiate institutional changes
in the water and sanitation sector to ensure that the project is financially and technically sustainable. The project
has four components: (1) water supply systems (2) sanitation and health (3) institutional strengthening and (4)
project management and construction supervision. This consultancy addresses the institutional strengtheing
component and the consultancy's purpose is to develop and improve the institutional capacity to operate and
maintain the water supply and sanitation improvements. The scope of work tasks are divided into three parts,
described as follows:
1.    National Sector Reform Study The first part is to conduct a study, make recommendations and develop
an action plan for making improvements at the national level to strengthen the capacity in Turkmenistan to provide
water and wastewater services more effectively to the country's 4.5 million people. This study is intended to
reconmmend changes that will provide the support necessary to accomplish the second part, the establishment of
a regional sector utility authority in Dashkhovuz.
2.     Establish a New Regional Sector Organization The second part is to evaluate existing sector capabilities
within Dashkhovuz Velayet, to provide specific commendations and draft necessary legislation for the creation of
a new regional water and sanitation authority in the Velayet, and to assist the government in establishing this new
authority.
3.    Strengthen the New Regional Sector Organization The third part will provide institutional strengthening
of the new authority in order to develop the skills and capabilities within the authority to meet its responsibilities.
PART I - NATIONAL SECTOR REFORM
TASKS TO BE PERFORMED
Task A        Describe and Evaluate Existing Conditions
Task A. 1     Existing Conditions: Organizations in the Sector



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                         Page 161
List and describe those organizations which now have responsibilities for the sector, at the national, regional or
local level; describe their reporting relationships and how they inter-relate with one another; and indicate whether
their responsibilities relate to funding, policy setting, operations. or regulation.
Task A.2       Existing Conditions: Setting and Implementing Sector Policies
Describe, consider and discuss alternatives with relevant sector officials for the following policy issues: (1) the
extent to which responsibility for sector utility planning, funding, design, construction, and operation and
maintenance is to be transferred from the national to the regional or municipal levels, for both water and
wastewater, and for urban and rural systems, (2) whether the establishment of combined water and wastewater
utilities should be encouraged, (3) the potential role for private sector involvement in the provision of sector
services, (4) who should have the responsibility for planning, design, construction, and operation of the sector
facilities, (5) who should set standards for drinking water, wastewater effluent and receiving waters; and also
standards for type or level of service to be provided, such as separate vs combined sewers, piped sewerage vs
sanitation, piped water or public faucets in rural areas, pressures or hours of service per day for piped water
supplies, (6) the extent to which the cost of services is to be borne by users, and whether charges are to be flat
rate, metered or some other method, (7) whether water and wastewater services should be combined, (8) whether
policies are or should be different for urban and rural areas, (9) the role for the national government in setting
broad policies such as these and establishing sector priorities, and which national body should have this
responsibility, (10) the extent to which the national government should provide technical and /or financial support
to those regional or municipal sector utilities with sector operational responsibilities and which national body
should have this responsibility, and (11) such other policy matters as may be appropriate. Policies affecting
regulation of the sector are discussed under Task A. 10.
Task A.3       Existing Conditions: Current Laws and Regulations
Determine and summarize key laws and regulations which are now in effect that relate to policies for guiding and
controlling the sector, and the planning, funding, design, construction and operation of sector facilities.
Task A.4       Existing Conditions: Sector Planning
Describe who has responsibility for, and findings relative to the adequacy of, broad sector planning and the
preparation of specific feasibility studies for sector programs prior to their implementation. Is broad sector
planning now being done? Are technical and economic feasibility studies being conducted prior to approval of
programs for design and construction? What role do the sector operating utilities have in deciding (1) who conducts
these feasibility studies, (2) the terms of reference for the studies, and (3) the review and approval of such
studies?
Task A.5       Existing Conditions: Detailed Designs
Describe who has responsibility for, and findings relative to the adequacy of, the preparation of detailed plans and
specifications for sector programs prior to their implementation. What role do the sector operating utilities have
in deciding (1) who conducts these designs, (2) what facilities are to be designed, (3) the adoption of design
criteria, and (4) specifications relative to the type and quality of materials to be used in constructing the works?
Task A.6       Existing Conditions: Construction
Describe who has responsibility for, and findings relative to the adequacy of, (1) setting the procedures or criteria
for selection of a contracting company, (2) actual selection of the construction company, and (3) supervision of



Page 162                                          Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
the activities of the contractor to ensure that the facilities are constructed in accordance with the engineer's plans
and specifications. What role do the sector operating utilities have in this process?
Task A.7       Existing Conditions: O&M  Manuals and Facility Start-Up
Describe who has responsibility for, and findings relative to the adequacy of, (1) preparation of and delivery to
the sector operating utility of manuals of instruction for the proper operation and maintenance of all newly
constructed or rehabilitated facilities, and (2) training of staff of the sector operating utility in starting up and
proper operation of these facilities. What role do the sector operating utilities have in this process?
Task A.8       Existing Conditions: Operation and Maintenance
In general terms, describe who has responsibility for, and findings relative to the adequacy of, (1) the provision
of water and wastewater services to residential and industrial customers in urban areas, and (2) the provision of
water and sanitation services to people living in rural communities. The intent is not to provide details, but to
present information that provides a clear picture of the general conditions and magnitude of problems that exist
nationwide relative to the operation and maintenance of sector services. Information is to be presented separately
for (1) water and wastewater facilities in urban municipalities, and (2) for water supply and sanitation facilities
in the rural communities.
Task A.9       Existing Conditions: Financial Aspects of the Sector
Determine and describe the current situation relative to (1) national government policies related to the
establishment of user charges for water and wastewater services, (2) responsibilities for and adequacy of sector
budgets, (3) process used to estimate and provide funding for the construction of capital projects, (4) national laws
on requirements for budgeting and accounting systems to be used by sector utilities, and (5) any other finance-
related matters which impact on sector operating utilities.
Task A. 10     Existing Conditions: Regulation of Sector Operations
Describe, consider and discuss with relevant sector officials the laws, policies and other matters affecting sector
regulation that now exist. These include responsibilities for monitoring (1) the quality of water being provided
by utilities, (2) the adequacy of the sector service being provided, (3) the quality of the wastewater being
discharged to receiving waters, (4) the quality of the receiving waters; and (5) the capacity of the regulating
bodies to enforce utility compliance with standards for water quality and adequacy, and for wastewater effluent
and receiving water quality. Determine whether (1) organizations other than the Ministry of Health (water quality)
and the Ministry of Environment (wastewater disposal) have sector regulatory responsibilities; (2) describe the
structure of all sector regulatory bodies at the national, regional and local levels; and (3) determine the capacity
of these regulatory bodies to meet their responsibilities.
Task B         Recommend Changes for Sector Reform
Task B. 1      Factors to be Taken Into Account in Making Recommendations
The recommended changes or other actions should take into consideration the need for effective sectoral
interactions, introduction of cost recovery for services while safeguarding the interests of low-income groups,
improving environmental standards, and adopting realistic standards for drinking water quality and wastewater
effluent quality.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                  Page 163
Task B.2      Recommendations for National Sector Policies
Based on the results of Tasks A.2 and A. 10, make recommendations for setting and implementing national policies
including but not limited to those described under Tasks A.2 and A. 10.
Task B.4      Recommendations for Laws and Regulations
Based on the results of Task A.3, make recommendations for changes to existing laws and regulations or the
adoption of new laws and regulations considered appropriate for strengthening the sector, and which take into
account recommended new sector policies.
Task B.5      Recommendations for the Conduct of Sector Planning
Based upon the results of Task A.4, make recommendations for the assignment of responsibility for and the types
of planning to be implemented.
Task B.6      Recommendations for Adequacy and Responsibility for Detailed Designs
Based on the results of Task A.5, make recommendations for the assignment of responsibility for directing the
preparation of detailed plans and specifications for sector facilities to be constructed. Make recommendations for
improving the quality of such designs and specifications.
Task B.7      Recommendations for Responsibilities for and Quality of Construction
Based on the results of Task A.6, make recommendations for the assignment of responsibility for the selection of
construction companies and the supervision of the work of these companies.  Make recommendations for
improving the quality of sector construction.
Task B.8      Recommendations for O&M Manuals and Facility Start-Up
Based on the results of Task A.7, make recommendations for (1) the preparation of and delivery to the sector
operating utilities, of manuals of instruction for the proper operation and maintenance (O&M) of all newly
constructed or rehabilitated facilities, and (2) the training of staff of the sector operating utility in starting up and
proper operation of these facilities.
Task B.9      Recommendations for Improved Operation and Maintenance Procedures
Based on the results of Task A.8, make recommendations for the improvement of operation and maintenance of
sector services to ensure the sustainability of the facilities. Recommendations should be presented separately for
(1) water and wastewater facilities in urban municipalities, and (2) for water supply and sanitation in the rural
communities.
Task B. 10    Recommendations for Improvements to Financial Aspects of the Sector
Based on the results of Task A.9, make recommendations for improvements to the financial aspects considered
appropriate for strengthening the sector, including but not limited to those described under Task A.9. In
particular, recommendations should be made relative to (1) the importance of requiring users to pay for the sector
services they receive, and (2) a suggested phased approach to introducing user charges.



Page 164                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Task B. 11    Recommendations for Improvements to Regulation of the Sector
Based on the results of Task A. 10, make recommendations for improvements to the regulation of the sector
considered appropriate for strengthening the sector, including but not limited to those described under Task A. 10.
Task B. 12    Summarize Recommended Strengthening Program
Summarize the recommended program for strengthening the sector and present suggested tables of organization
which show how the various sector organizations at both the national and Dashkhovuz Velayet level relate to one
another based on recommendations for organizational changes and assignment of responsibilities. Prepare a report
of these summary recommendations in English and Russian.
Task C        Prepare Plans for Changes in the National Sector
Task C. 1     Prepare Action Plan for National Sector Changes
Prepare a developmental strategy and an Action Plan to implement the recommendations presented in Task B.
The plan should include specific activities to be undertaken, estimated resources required, specific individuals
and/or organizations proposed to be assigned to implement the plan, estimated time schedules, estimated cost of
implementation, reporting requirements, assignment of responsibilities, description of expected results, or any
other actions required to achieve the recommended results. The Action Plan should be prepared in English and
Russian.
Task C.2      Recommend Immediate Changes to Support the New Dashkhovuz Authority
Identify components of the Action Plan described in Task C. I which should be implemented before 31 December
1998 in order to permit the establishment of and provide support to the new regional water and sanitation authority
described in Part II of the terms of reference. Prepare a separate plan recommending these immediate changes
in English and in Russian.
PART II - ESTABLISH A NEW REGIONAL SECTOR AUTHORITY
TASKS TO BE PERFORMED
Task A        Describe and Evaluate Existing Conditions
Task A. 1     Existing Conditions: Dashkhovuz Velayet Organizations in the Sector
List and describe those organizations in Dashkhovuz Velayet which now have responsibilities for some part of
the sector, at the velayet and etrap levels, both for urban and rural areas. Describe their reporting relationships,.
how they inter-relate with one another, and state whether their responsibilities relate to funding, policy setting,
operations, or regulation. Assess the relative capabilities of the existing sector organizations in terms of human
resource skills; and physical resources such as office space, vehicles, equipment, laboratories or other non-
operational physical resources. Prepare a table of organization that indicates how the existing Velayet sector
organizations relate to one another and to Velayet and national supervisory and regulatory organizations.
Task A.2      Existing Conditions: Setting and Implementing Sector Policies
Describe, consider and discuss with relevant sector officials the policy issues described under Task A.2 of Part



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                         Page 165
I. In the absence of any changes in existing national policies as proposed in Task C.2 of Part I, consider what
flexibility is available to Velayet officials in adopting appropriate policies for the sector in Dashkhovuz Velayet.
Task A.3       Existing Conditions: Current Velayet Laws and Regulations
Determine and summarize key laws and regulations which are now in effect in the Velayet that relate to matters
affecting any aspects of the operation of sector facilities.
Task A.4       Existing Conditions: Sector Planning
Describe who has responsibility for, and findings relative to the adequacy of, sector planning at the Velayet level
and the preparation of specific feasibility studies for sector programs prior to their implementation. Is Velayet
sector planning now being done? Are technical and economic feasibility studies being conducted prior to approval
of programs for design and construction? What role do the sector operating utilities have in deciding (1) who
conducts these feasibility studies, (2) the terms of reference for the studies, and (3) the review and approval of
such studies?
Task A.5       Existing Conditions: Detailed Designs
Describe who has responsibility for, and findings relative to the adequacy of, the preparation of detailed plans and
specifications for sector programs prior to their implementation. What role do the Velayet sector operating utilities
have in deciding (1) who conducts these designs, (2) what facilities are to be designed, (3) the adoption of design
criteria, and (4) specifications relative to the type and quality of materials to be used in constructing the works?
Task A.6       Existing Conditions: Construction
Describe who has responsibility for, and findings relative to the adequacy of, (1) setting the procedures or criteria
for selection of a contracting company, (2) actual selection of the construction company, and (3) supervision of
the activities of the contractor to ensure that the facilities are constructed in accordance with the engineer's plans
and specifications. What role do the Velayet sector operating utilities have in this process?
Task A.7       Existing Conditions: O&M Manuals and Facility Start-Up
Describe who has responsibility for, and findings relative to the adequacy of, (1) preparation of and delivery to
the Velayet sector operating utility of manuals of instruction for the proper operation and maintenance of all newly
constructed or rehabilitated facilities, and (2) training of staff of the sector operating utility in starting up and
proper operation of these facilities. What role do the Velayet sector operating utilities have in this process?
Task A.8       Existing Conditions: Operation and Maintenance
In general terms, describe who has responsibility for, and findings relative to the adequacy of the operation and
maintenance of water and/or wastewater operating utilities in urban and rural communities. The intent is not to
provide details, but to present information that provides a clear picture of the general conditions and magnitude
of problems that exist throughout the Velayet relative to the operation and maintenance of sector services.
Information is to be presented separately for  (1) water and sanitation or wastewater facilities in urban
municipalities, and (2) for water supply and sanitation facilities in the rural comnuunities.
Task A.9       Existing Conditions: Financial Aspects of the Sector



Page 166                                     Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Determine and describe the current situation relative to responsibilities and capabilities in the Velayet sector
organizations for (1) preparation of sector budgets for capital and operating needs, (2) adoption and use of
accounting systems, (3) existence of auditing systems, either internal for the Velayet or external by the national
government, (4) banking or other arrangements for the control and use of funds received from the national
government, and (5) any other finance-related matters which impact on sector operating utilities in the Velayet.
Task B        Recommend Attributes and Organizational Structure for the
New Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Sanitation Authority
Task B. 1     General Recommendations for Sector Reorganization in Dashkhovuz Velayet
Make recommendations for the establishment of a new, comprehensive, velayet-wide, regional water supply and
sanitation authority (the Authority) which would have responsibility for all aspects of water supply, wastewater
and sanitation in Dashkhovuz Velayet. Recommendations should include (1) proposed reporting relationships
between the Authority and Dashkhovuz Velayet, and with the national government; (2) the legal form of the
Authority, (3) how the personnel, equipment and responsibilities of the existing sector organizations are to be
transferred to the Authority, and (4) tables of organization for the Authority and its principal components. Prepare
a report on the recommendations for this Authority in English and Russian. All of the remaining recommendations
to be prepared under this Task B should be based on the expectation of the establishment of the Authority as a
legal operating entity on or before 31 December 1998.
Task B.2     Recommendations for Velayet Sector Policies
Based on the results of Task A.2 , make recommendations for setting and implementing Velayet policies. These
policies should be appropriate for and support the reorganization of sector responsibilities under the new Authority
proposed under Task B. 1.
Task B.3      Recommendations for Velayet Laws and Regulations
Based on the results of Task A.3, make recommendations for changes to existing laws and regulations or the
adoption of new laws and regulations considered appropriate for strengthening the sector, and which take into
account recommended new sector policies and the proposed reorganization. In particular, draft a new law, charter
or presidential decree to establish the Authority. Such legislation should provide the Authority with the powers
necessary to permit the Authority to become an autonomous, self-sustaining sector utility. The draft legislation
should be prepared in English and Russian.
Task B.4      Recommendations for the Conduct of Sector Planning
Based upon the results of Task A.4, make recommendations for (1) the assignment of responsibility for planning,
(2) the types of planning to be implemented, and (3) the development of the capacity for planning within the
Authority.
Task B.5      Recommendations for Adeguacv and Responsibility for Detailed Designs
Based on the results of Task A.5, make recommendations for the assignment of responsibility for directing the
preparation of detailed plans and specifications for sector facilities to be constructed. Make recommendations for
improving the quality of such designs and specifications, taking into consideration the use of private sector
companies for this work.



Turkmenistan: Water SUpply and Sanitation Proiect                                     Page 167
Task B.6      Recommendations for Responsibilities for and Ouality of Construction
Based on the results of Task A.6, make recommendations for the assignment of responsibility for the selection of
construction companies and the supervision of the work of these companies. Make recommendations for
improving the quality of sector construction. Make recommendations for the development within the Authority
of the capability to supervise construction work performed by contractors.
Task B.7      Recommendations for O&M Manuals and Facility Start-Up
Based on the results of Task A.7, make recommendations for (1) the preparation of and delivery to the sector
operating utilities, of manuals of instruction for the proper operation and maintenance of all newly constructed or
rehabilitated facilities, and (2) the training of staff of the sector operating utility in starting up and proper operation
of these facilities. Consider the role for the private sector in the provision of these services.
Task B.8      Recommendations for Improved Operation and Maintenance Procedures
Based on the results of Task A.8, make recommendations for the improvement of operation and maintenance of
sector services to ensure the sustainability of the facilities. Make recommendations for the development within
the Authority of the capability to operate and maintain all sector facilities.
Task B.9      Recommendations for Improvements to Financial Aspects of the Sector
Based on the results of Task A.9, make recommendations for improvements to the financial aspects considered
appropriate for strengthening the sector in the Velayet, including but not limited to those described under Task
A.9. Such improvements should also anticipate the ability to be able to charge users for sector services but should
not be limited to those described under Task A. 10. Make recommendations for the development within the
Authority of the capability to provide all financial services required of an effective sector utility.
Task B. 10    Recommendations for Establishing Water and Sanitation User Charges
The Government is expected to revise its regulations to permit recovery of operation and maintenance costs on
a gradual basis, with the proviso that a basic amount of water is to be provided to users at no cost in order to meet
health and subsistence needs of low income customers of the Authority. Taking into account the financial estimates
of the cost of water made by the World Bank and Bank policy papers on this subject prepared during project
preparation, prepare a suggested program for water use charges based on the type of service received, or other
factors as relevant. The program should also suggest charges for other services to be provided by the Authority,
including the installation of water or wastewater connections to the Authority's pipes. Charges for wastewater
collection and disposal of latrine wastes should also be considered.
Task C        Prepare and Implement Action Plan for Establishment of a New Dashkhovuz Velayet
Regional Water and Sanitation Authority (Authority)
C. 1    Prepare Action Plan to Establish the New Authority
Prepare a developmental strategy and an Action Plan to implement the recommendations presented in Task B.
The plan should include specific activities to be undertaken, estimated resources required, specific individuals
and/or organizations proposed to be assigned to implement the plan, estimated time schedules, estimated cost of
implementation, reporting requirements, assignment of responsibilities, description of expected results, or any other
actions required to establish the new Authority and to strengthen its capability to achieve the recommended results.



Page 168                                      Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
The Action Plan should be prepared in English and in Russian.
C.2    General Assistance in Implementation of the Action Plan
Provide advice, guidance and general assistance to those officials appointed by the Government to implement the
Action Plan, with the goal of establishing the new Authority as a legal, operational organization by the target date
of 31 December 1998.
C.3    Assistance in Passage of Legislation
Using the draft legislation prepared under Task B.3 of Part II, and in accordance with the Action Plan, assist the
Velayet and national authorities in the introduction and passage of this legislation.
PART III - STRENGTHENING THE NEW REGIONAL SECTOR AUTHORITY
TASKS TO BE PERFORMED
The basic intent of Part III is that the consultant will assist the Authority in improving its institutional capacity
through the implementation of the consultant's recommendations arising from the completion of the tasks described
in Part II. The tasks described below assume that the Authority will be established not later than 12 months from
the start of work under the consultant's scope of work, and that an additional 12 months will be available to
implement these tasks. It is unlikely that the consultant will be able to assist the new Authority to obtain full
capability in all the subjects described in this section. The tasks have been framed as actions required to achieve
goals, but with the understanding that attainment of these goals will be dependent to a large extent upon factors
not under the control of the consultant. Such factors include the timing and extent to which the Authority actually
exists, in terms of its charter; the capacity and suitability of assigned personnel and office quarters; and such
physical resources as office furnishings and equipment, vehicles, and spare parts and materials for operation and
maintenance of facilities.
Task A        Strengthen Authority's Administration and Management Capabilities
Background Administration and management are broad terms which embrace the policies, procedures, systems
and skills necessary for conducting all the operations that permit the Authority to fulfill its obligations as the
organization responsible for water supply, sanitation and wastewater services throughout the Velayet. There are
many alternatives for dividing these responsibilities between the Managing Director of the Authority and a
separate department of administration. The consultant will perform the following tasks:
Task A. 1     Develop Key Polices and Procedures
Compile and review significant policies and procedures now in effect, or under consideration, that relate to the
Authority's responsibilities. Revise the key existing or draft policies and procedures and develop new policies and
procedures as appropriate. Review all such policies and procedures with the Authority. Based on that review,
prepare and translate new policies and procedures for the Authority.
Task A.2      Establish Program for Computer Technical Support
Develop a computer technical support center and train staff to implement the responsibilities of this center. The
consultant will determine the duties and responsibilities of this center, but they should include the capability of
training staff in other divisions of the Authority to provide essential employees with needed skills in word
processing, spread sheets, accounting programs, desk top publishing or other computer skills required for the



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                     Page 169
performance of the duties of their divisions. The center should also serve as a source of technical support and
troubleshooting, and in \the development of new programs to enhance the capabilities of the various divisions of
the Authority.
Task A.3      Establish Basic Management Information System
Review the current level and type of information being generated, and the procedures for distribution of such
information. Based on the results of this study, develop and implement a program for the determination of what
type of information is required for senior and middle level managers, the level of detail to be provided, its
frequency, and assignment of responsibilities for the preparation and dissemination of the desired information.
These activities will be used to develop a comprehensive management information system for the Authority. The
purpose of this effort is the prompt provision of accurate information to key managers sufficient to support
decision-making or other actions leading to the achievement of the Authority's goals.
Task A.4      Define and Develop a Legal Office
Prepare a description of duties and responsibilities for an internal legal office within the Authority. Duties are
expected to include review and recommendations for approval of all contracts which the Authority is planning to
execute, advice to the Managing Director on any potential legal problems arising from the Authority's activities,
interpretation of GOT laws that may constrain the Authority's ability to function autonomously, or any other legal
matter which may arise. This probably should be a single lawyer with a small administrative staff, with occasional
support from staff on loan from other departments during peak workloads.
Task A.5      Define and Develop an Internal Audit Capability
Prepare a description of duties and responsibilities for an internal audit office within the Authority. The internal
audit office should be independent of the financial division, and should have such responsibilities as reviewing all
of the Authority's financial dealings, suggesting changes in policies and procedures to ensure strict accountability
of all revenues and expenses, and advising the Managing Director of any inadequacies or potential problems
relative to the Authority's financial practices. This office should also monitor compliance of the financial
department with GOT laws and regulations that affect utility financial activities. Staffing of an internal audit office
will be dependent upon the extent to which financial activities of the Authority are to be reviewed.
Task A.6      Define and Develop a Public Relations Capability
Prepare a description of duties and responsibilities for a public relations office within the Authority, and an outline
plan of action for this office. Public support will be critical to the success of the Authority as an effective sector
utility organization meeting the needs of the Velayet.  Possible activities include the development and
implementation of a program to routinely inform customers of the Authority's activities of benefit to customers
and the various communities of the Velayet, to respond to adverse media publicity, to educate customers about
the need for adequate user fees, to develop means of communicating information to employees and fostering
improved staff morale, and to conduct activities in any other areas in which the Authority could obtain benefits
in improving its public image so as to further its goals of autonomy and sustainability. Initially this office
probably should consist of a single professional person and a small administrative staff, with occasional support
from staff on loan from other departments as the workload requires.
Task A.7      Define and Develop a Customer Services Capability
Prepare a description of duties and responsibilities for a customer services office within the Authority. The



Page 170                                      Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
purpose of this office is to serve the interests of the customers. Possible activities include the opening and
publication of a customer complaint telephone line, development and implementation of a program to train and
assign people to answer the phones, transmit the complaints to the appropriate department, and follow up to ensure
that legitimate complaints are addressed. This office should be sympathetic to, and, to the extent possible,
encourage the development of, consumer action groups in Dashkhovuz Velayet. This office would serve the
function of "ombudsman", or in-house representative of the interests and concerns of the Authority's customers.
Such a function will, in the long run, enhance the Authority's public image as a caring organization. This office
probably should consist of the customer's representative, and a small staff to answer phones and assist the
representative in ensuring that complaints are addressed promptly.
Task A.8      Define and Develop an Improved System of Stores and Parts Management
Based on the evaluation of existing conditions and assessment of future needs, recommend a new system of stores
and parts management, including record keeping and the development of physical facilities. Assist the Authority
in developing a basic capacity for this purpose which is appropriate for the initial needs of the Authority.
Task A.9      Define and Develop a Capability for Vehicle and Transport Management
Based on the evaluation of existing conditions and assessment of future needs, recommend a new system of
vehicle, heavy equipment and transport management, including allocation of such facilities based on priority needs.
The system should include record keeping, repairs and physical facilities such as garages and maintenance and
repair equipment. Assist the Authority in developing a basic capacity for this purpose which is appropriate for the
initial needs of the Authority.
Task B        Strengthen the Authority's Technical and O&M Capabilities
Background There are several categories of technical expertise which require strengthening to better serve the
Authority's needs. These include (1) long-term planning, (2) operation, maintenance and repair of the physical
works of the system and also of the Authority's buildings and equipment, (3) mapping and record keeping, (4)
construction management, (5) basic design of standards for commonly needed facilities (building connections,
latrines and procedures or facilities for emergency repairs), (6) management of wastewater, septage and latrine
waste disposal, and (7) capability to procure and monitor the services of private sector engineers for conducting
feasibility studies and the design of major new works.
Task B. 1     Reorganize the Technical Department
Suggest an appropriate organization of the technical department which ensures the establishment of sections, and
appoints section leaders, with responsibilities for the proposed divisions and sub-divisions of the department,
including those described in the following tasks.
Task B.2      Define and Develop Planning Capabilities
Define the Authority's planning needs, in terms of the purpose and the information needed upon which to base
such plans. The basic purposes of planning should include an identification of the description, size, type, location
and cost of facilities needed to meet future demands, either from growth in new areas or increased water needs,
wastewater flows or latrine wastes from existing customers, as estimated for various periods in the future.
Similarly, the planning should identify the need to replace aging components of the system as they reach the end
of their useful life. Develop the capability within the Authority to identify planning needs, conduct the planning,
ensure that these plans are subject to review and approval, and that the approved plans become the basis of the



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                  Page 171
estimated costs for capital development and replacement needs incorporated in long-term financial planning. In
some organizations, the long-term planning function is part of the office of the Managing Director of the
Authority.
Task B.3      Define and Develop O&M Capabilities
Based on the evaluation of existing O&M capabilities, assess the Authority's O&M needs, in terms of both the
Authority's facilities for providing sector services such as wells, pipelines and pump stations, and also for its own
buildings, laboratories and equipment. Develop a system for guiding operators in the proper operation of all
facilities, and for both periodic, preventive maintenance, and routine and emergency repairs. Assist the Authority
in developing a basic capacity for these purposes which is appropriate for the initial needs of the Authority.
Task B.4      Define and Develop Mapping and Record Keeping Capabilities
Based on the evaluation of existing conditions and assessment of future needs, recommend a new system of
mapping and record keeping. The mapping and record keeping should make use of the identification of the
description, size, type, location and condition of facilities as described in Task B.2.  Assist the Authority in
developing a basic capacity for this purpose which is appropriate for the initial needs of the Authority.
Task B.5      Define and Develop Construction Management Capability
Based on the evaluation of existing conditions and assessment of future needs, recommend a program for
developing a capability within the Authority for managing and supervising the construction of facilities which are
being constructed by others for the Authority. Assist the Authority in developing a basic capacity for this purpose
which is appropriate for the initial needs of the Authority, making full use of the water supply improvement
program which is part of this project. This task should be closely coordinated with the services being provided
by the project management contractor.
Task B.6      Define and Develop Basic Design Capabilities
Based on the evaluation of existing conditions and assessment of future needs, recommend a program for
developing a capability within the Authority for preparing basic designs. Basic designs are considered to be those
required for making standard drawings for repetitive works such as customer service connections to the Authority's
pipelines, improvements to street faucets, designs required on short notice for emergency repairs, and similar
purposes. Assist the Authority in developing a basic capacity for this purpose which is appropriate for the initial
needs of the Authority.
Task B.7      Define and Develop Capabilities for Utilization of Private Sector Engineers
In previous years, engineering plans and specifications were the responsibility of national design institutes. As
a condition to receiving Bank funding, designs and specifications for the current water supply improvement project
were conducted by a foreign private sector consultant. Most efficient utilities make use of private sector consultants
for the design of the major new works, rather than maintain their own in-house design teams. Develop procedures
for the fair and efficient procurement of private sector consultants, and for monitoring their performance. Develop
the capabilities of the Authority technical staff in the use of such procedcures.
Task C        Strengthen the Authority's Capabilities in Finance and Revenues
Background Current capabilities in the Velayet in the areas of finance and revenue are very limited. Financially



Page 172                                      Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
self-sustaining sector organizations   require the capability of developing and using such systems as
payroll/personnel, general ledger and inventory control systems, and systems for revenue billing, collection and
cash flow monitoring.
Task C. 1     Define and Develop a Capacity for Budgeting
Based on the evaluation of existing conditions and assessment of future needs, recommend a new system of
budgeting for both capital and O&M costs. The system should be suitable for a modern water and sanitation
utility, but also must be adaptable to the requirements of the Government's approved system of budgeting. Assist
the Authority in developing a basic capacity for this purpose which is appropriate for the initial needs of the
Authority.
Task C.2      Develop and Assist in Installing a System for Purchasing
Based on the evaluation of existing conditions and assessment of future needs, recommend a new system of
purchasing for the various types of equipment, commodities and services required by the Authority. The system
should be suitable for a modern water and sanitation utility. Depending upon the flexibility provided in the
Authority's charter, the system may have to meet the requirements of the Government's approved system of
purchasing. Assist the Authority in developing a basic capacity for this purpose which is appropriate for the initial
needs of the Authority.
Task C.3      Develop and Assist in Installing an Improved Accounting System
Based on the evaluation of existing conditions and assessment of future needs, recommend a new system of
accounting suitable for a modern water and sanitation utility. The system should include general ledger, payroll
and inventory control systems. Depending upon the flexibility provided in the Authority's charter, the system may
have to meet the requirements of the Government's approved system of accounting. In any event, the proposed
new accounting system must be adaptable to the requirements of the Government's approved system of accounting.
Assist the Authority in developing a basic capacity for this purpose which is appropriate for the initial needs of
the Authority.
Task C.4      Develop Systems for Billing and Collection of Revenues
At the present time there are no user charges for water, sanitation and wastewater services, so the only systems
for billing and collection relate to the small charges which are made for making connections to the system. Based
on the evaluation of existing systems and an assessment of future needs, as noted under Task B. 10 of Part II,
reconmmend a new system of billing and collection of revenues suitable for a modern water and sanitation utility.
Assist the Authority in developing a basic capacity for this purpose which is appropriate for the initial needs of
the Authority.
Task D        Strengthen the Authority's Capabilities in Personnel Management
Background Current levels of skills and payment schedules are inadequate to the Authority's needs. Control over
personnel, the capacity to train staff to meet the greater demands of an efficient sector organization, and the ability
to properly compensate trained staff will be dependent upon the ability of the Authority to become financially self-
sustaining. As long as the Authority is dependent upon the national government for funding it will be difficult
to achieve its objectives.
Task D. 1     Develop and Institutionalize a New Personnel System



Turkmenistan: Water Supplv and Sanitation Project                                   Page 173
Based on the evaluation of existing conditions and assessment of future needs, recommend a new personnel system
suitable for a modern water and sanitation utility. The system should include personnel policies, criteria for hiring
and firing, promoting and motivation, personnel performance reviews and record keeping, and training.
Depending upon the flexibility provided in the Authority's charter, the system may have to meet the requirements
of the Government's laws relative to personnel. Assist the Authority in developing a basic capacity for human
resource development and management which is appropriate for the initial needs of the Authority.
Task D.2     Identify Areas of Basic Skill Deficiencies and Suggest Programs for Overcoming Such Deficiencies
Based on the findings of existing conditions in the various departments following the completion of the sub-tasks
listed under Task A of Part II, identify the deficiencies in personnel capabilities which must be overcome in
strengthening the Authority as proposed under Part III. Recommend a program for overcoming deficiencies in
basic skills.
Task D.3     Identify Areas of Critical Skill Deficiencies and Develop Options for Obtaining Such Skills from
the Private Sector
Based on the results of Task D.2 above, determine which of these deficiencies occur among the "critical " skills
required by the Authority. Critical skills may be considered skills in the development, management and training
of others in the use of computers and software programs, development, management and monitoring of O&M
programs; or other technical or management skills in short supply in Turkmenistan. Recommend a program for
overcoming deficiencies in critical skills, including consideration of contracting with the private sector for such
services until such time as these skills can be developed within the Authority.
Task E        Strengthen the Authority's Capabilities in Quality Control
Task E. I     Laboratories
Based on a review of pre-project evaluations of existing laboratories in the Velayet, and verification of the
adequacy of existing laboratories by means of selected field investigations, make recommendations for
consolidation and upgrading water quality laboratories in the Velayet. This evaluation is not meant to include
those laboratories operated by MOH/SES or other parties, but only those required to ensure that the Authority's
operations meets the legal requirements for providing potable water and for the adequacy of treatment of collected
wastewaters prior to disposal.
Task E.2      Define and Develop an Environmental Department
Prepare a description of duties and responsibilities for an environmental office within the quality control division
of the Authority. The environmental office should be independent of the engineering division, and should have
such responsibilities as conducting studies of the environmental consequences of current Authority activities,
reviewing plans for future activities for their environmental consequences, and advising the Managing Director
of any potentially adverse consequences of existing or planned activities, suggesting mitigation measures. Initially
this office probably should consist of a single professional person and a small administrative staff, with occasional
support from staff on loan from other departments as the workload requires.
Task E.3      Quality Control
Based on water quality standards for potable water and wastewater effluent quality standards, and on the



Pa-ge 174                                      Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect
performance indicators to be developed under Task F, recommend procedures for ensuring control of quality in
important aspects of the Authority's activities, including the delivery of potable water, satisfaction of wastewater
effluent standards, ensuring the reliability of water service, and meeting such other performance factors as may
be adopted by the Authority.
Task F        Develop Performance Indicators and Initiate Performance Monitoring
Task F. 1     Develop Key Performance Indicators for the Authority
Prepare a list of suggested key performance indicators for the Authority, similar to those suggested below, and
suggest target goals over time, as appropriate, in the following areas:
a.     Water Supply For each community water system: Number of hours per day that water is supplied under
pressure; Percent of water quality samples that meet bacteriological standards; Percent of community
population served; Total water produced; Number of leaks/breaks repaired per month; Percentage of
households with direct connections; Percentage of people within 50 meters of a functioning street faucet;
Number of street faucets and percentage of functioning street faucets; Hours per month that service is
unavailable to street faucets because of freezing; Average number of persons served per street faucet; and
similar indicators. Suggest a program to develop base-line data for the number of hours spent by
households in collecting water, and the amounts carried, for those dependent upon street faucets for their
water supply.
b.     Wastewater and Sanitation Performance indicators to be developed by the consultant, based on conditions
appropriate to the various communities.
c.     Finance and Administration  For each community water system, and for those two communities with
wastewater systems: Total operation and maintenance costs; O&M costs per cubic meter of water
produced or wastewater collected; Revenues collected per month by type of customer (residential street
faucets, residential yard taps, commercial/industrial or other); Number of Authority employees per
customer served (all communities); Accounts receivable (revenues billed but not collected); Average age
of accounts receivable (how many months has it been, on average, since the accounts receivable were
billed); Information on the date of establishment, existence and effectiveness of such programs as training,
management information systems, financial systems, or other Authority functions; and other performance
indicators as appropriate.
Task F.2      Measurement of Performance
Suggest programs for the utilization of these performance indicators by management as a means of measuring
overall performance of the Authority, and for the publication and dissemination of reports on performance to the
Authority's Board of Directors, other supervisory organizations or groups which represent the interests of the
consumers.
Task G        Develop and Implement a Public Awareness Campaign
Background In addition to the institutional strengthening of the Authority as described in the previous tasks, the
consultant will develop and assist officials of the Velayet in the implementation of a public awareness campaign
(1) to inform the population in the project areas about improvements of services in water supply, sanitation and
health; (2) to introduce the principle of cost-recovery from those who benefit from the improved service; and (3)
to educate the general population about the value and importance of water conservation; safe practices for water



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                  Page 175
collection and storage; linkages between water, sanitation and good hygienic practices and health; and community
and household involvement in operation and maintenance of the water supply system. The public awareness
campaign is linked with the community development activities for community participation in water supply and
sanitation systems (which are being developed under the sanitation and health component of the project). Feedback
from numerous community focus groups and stakeholder workshops has found that beneficiairies want more public
education regarding the new systems so that they can identify specific and appropriate mechanisms for their
participation. The public awareness program will be implemented coincident with the establishment of the
Authority, and will be coordinated with the sanitation and health component of the project, and with the UNDP
national public awareness program on water conservation and usage.
Time Period and Responsibility for the Program The consultant will be responsible for this program for a period
of 18 months until the conclusion of the consultant's contract. At the completion of the consultant's contract, it
is intended that one or more of the local personnel trained by the consultant will be employed by the Authority
for assignment to the Customer Services Department described under Task A.7. The Authority will be encouraged
to continue the program at least until the end of construction, and preferably beyond that on a continuing but
reduced basis. The tasks to be performed are described as follows:
Task G. 1     Develop a Draft Public Awareness Program
Develop a draft public awareness program which includes (1) conducting initial surveys of public knowledge and
understanding of the issues mentioned in the campaign objectives (cost-recovery, water conservation, proprer water
usage, and community participation in the system operation and maintenance), (2) establishes measurable
objectives, (3) evaluates communication strategies, (4) determines target audiences, (5) recommends the media mix
to be utilized, (6) drafts the themes and contents of the messages to be imparted (including proper use of street
faucets and possibly neighborhood policing of such use), (7) determines the resources required, (8) prepares a
budget for the program to be implemented by the consultant, and (9) suggests annual budgets for a reduced
program to be implemented by the Authority at the end of the consultant's contract. The draft program should
be prepared in English and Russian.
Task G.2      Engage Local Staff
Determine the job requirements for and engage a local specialist in comnmunications for 18 months and a media
specialist for a total of 6 months, to assist in the development and imnplementation of the program.
Task G.3     Identify Stakeholders. or Parties Interested in Such a Program
Identify regional and local organizations which are presumed to have an interest in the conduct of a public
awareness program on the issues of water supply, sanitation and health; including water and sanitation utilities (the
new Authority), public health organizations (SES or other departments of the Ministry of health), governmental
organizations (Velayet and Etrap Hakimliks, Archyns of etrap centers and kolkhoses), international donor groups
or others. This campaign will be coordinated with the sanitation and health component (community participation,
and health promotion and health education activities), and the UNDP national public awareness program on water
conservation and usage.
Task G.4     Identify the Presumed Representatives of the Beneficiaries
The direct beneficiaries are considered to be the general population of Dashkhovuz Velayet. Identify the presumed
representatives of these beneficiaries, which might include the Domkom (the street or neighborhood leaders), the
Gengeshi (municipal councilors), women's groups, school organizations, local or international NGOs, or any other



Page 176                                      Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
organization which either represents or has the potential to represent, the interests of the people in matters of water
supply, sanitation or health.
Task G.5     Identify parties With Potential to Deliver the Messages of the Program
Identify those parties which could contribute to the content of the messages (water and sanitation specialists, health
specialists), and those parties which could prepare and deliver the messages.  The latter could include
representatives of the media in television, radio, newspapers, magazines or other press; as well as media
production firms, including video filming and printing shops.
Task G.6      Discuss and Agree on Final Public Awareness Program
Review the draft public awareness program with selected representatives from the groups identified in Tasks G.3
through G.5. Prepare a report on the final public awareness program which reflects the views of these
representatives to the maximum extent, recognizing that not all parties will be in agreement. The report on the
final public awareness program should be prepared in English and Russian.
Task G.7     Implement the Public Awareness Program
Implement the public awareness program, making full use of local staff so that they may be able to continue
similar programs in the future. The program should provide for at least 12 months of continuity in delivering
messages by a variety of media.
Task G.8      Conduct Survey of Program Results
In coordination with the health promotion and education subcomponent of the sanitation and health component,
conduct a survey of the target audiences before and after the campaign to evaluate changes in knowledge, attitudes
and practices related to water supply usage and conservation, sanitation and personal and household hygiene.
Prepare a report on the results of the survey in English and Russian, and disseminate the Russian-language report
results to appropriate parties throughout the velayet.



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                        Page 177
ANNEX S-3: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
SANITATION AND HEALTH COMPONENT
Introduction
I.    The Government of Turkmenistan has received a loan from  the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) in support of a program of investments to improve and
expand water supply, sanitation and health in the regions affected by the Aral Sea disaster. The
objectives of the proposed project would be to: (i) improve water supply and sanitation in etrap centers
and selected collective farms in Dashkhovuz velayet; and (ii) initiate institutional changes in the water
and sanitation sectors to ensure that the project is financially and technically sustainable. Within the
scope of this project, the Government has decided to contract the services of consultants (the Consultant)
to carry out the Sanitation and Health Component.
Background
2.     Health status.  Health status in Turkmenistan is poor, compared with other countries of the
former Soviet Union, and health status is poorer in Dashkhovuz velayet than in the rest of the country.
The poor and declining health is attributed to degradation of the environment; qualitative and
quantitative deterioration of the drinking water supply; poor sanitation and hygiene practices; protein and
vitamin deficiency; and inadequate and declining health care services.
3.     Responsibilities for water provision and quality, sanitation and hygiene. In urban areas of
Dashkhovuz Velayet, the Department of Housing and Communal Services (DHCS) have responsibility
for operating and maintaining the Dashkhovuz City piped wastewater system, through the Dashkhovuz
Vodocanal. They also are said to have responsibility for the provision and maintenance of latrines in
public areas such as government buildings, markets and clinics or hospitals. Installation of latrines in
schools appears to be under the control of individual school authorities. No official government
organization has responsibility for any aspect of latrines or other means of excreta disposal for private
households or businesses. While the Sanitary and Epidemiological Services of the Ministry of Health
(MOHMI/SES) is primarily a regulatory agency to monitor the performance and quality of the water and
wastewater services being provided, they also appear to be involved in the "treatment" (addition of lime)
and disposal of latrine sludges from some institutional latrines, such as those in schools. Whether or not
DHCS, MOHMI/SES or any other governmental organization has responsibility for them, most
institutional latrines are in deplorable condition.
4.     The MOHMI/SES has the clear responsibility for monitoring the quality of the water supplied to
the people of Turkmenistan through municipal water supply systems. No agency concerns itself with the
quality of water used by people from their private sources of water. SES samples water quality from
public systems at the point of supply, the distribution system, and selected users, including schools and
homes. The frequency and number of tests depends upon the size of the system being monitored.
Sampling is said to take place about once or twice a month, on average. As noted hereinafter, water
quality frequently fails to meet drinking water standards. SES has the authority to levy fines against
communities which fail to chlorinate, and to shut down systems which fail bacteriological tests.
Officials whose systems frequently fail to meet the standards are subject to criminal prosecution. It
appears that these sanctions are rarely imposed. As a result of severe budget limitations, SES suffers
from a shortage of operable vehicles, buildings of limited size and poor quality, and laboratories with
failing equipment and inadequate supplies of chemicals. These problems constrain SES in fulfilling its
responsibilities.



Page 178                        Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect
5.     The project.  On the Aral Sea Basin regional level, the project originates from the Aral Sea
Program 5 "Clean Water and Health" and constitutes Project 5.2 Turkmenistan Water Supply and
Sanitation. The project was specifically intended to address the demand for improved water supplies for
the population most affected by the Aral Sea disaster. It is also based on optimizing the health benefits
realized by improvements in water supply systems by improving sanitation and hygiene. The project
would be the first infrastructure investment operation in Turkmenistan, therefore the project was
designed to be focused and simple to inplement both technically and administratively. During project
preparation it was determined that a long-term investment in excess of US$ 140 million would be
required to rehabilitate and expand the water supply infrastructure to the entire velayet. Therefore it was
decided that the project would focus on the immediate needs (which are in the secondary cities and farms
rather than the capital city) in an equitable fashion by improving services in one secondary city and one
farm in each etrap. Noting significant sector institutional weaknesses on the national and regional level,
the project was designed to include institutional restructuring and financial reforms on the regional level.
The project would serve as a demonstration for institutional reforms.
6.     The Ministry of Land Reclamation and Water Resource Management has undertaken project
preparation with technical assistance from Electrowatt Engineering. The feasibility work included two
demonstration projects: the installation of effective taps on street standpipes in Gubadagh; and the
construction of improved latrines and handwashing facilities at a school in Boldumsaz. Results of the
street standpipe demonstration have been taken into account in the water supply rehabilitation
component and form the basis for the development of community involvement in operation and
maintenance. The results of the sanitation project forn the basis of the school-based sanitation, hygiene
and health education component of the project. The results of these two demonstration projects were
used in the project formulation. During preparation, participatory methods, such as focus group
discussions, were used routinely to guide the two demonstration projects and to provide additional
background information. A local NGO has been actively engaged in project preparation and is assisting
in the implementation of the community involvement components of the two demonstration projects.
During appraisal, the role of the community in the project was discussed in a stakeholder workshop
conducted in Dashkhovuz, and in subsequent discussions with local community residents; water, health
and education authorities; non-governmental organizations (NGOs); donors; and government officials.
Based on these discussions, the principle of increased community participation to strengthen the
involvement of beneficiaries in system design, usage and operation and maintenance has been agreed
upon and emphasized in the project.
Objectives and approach
7.     The Consultant will provide technical assistance to the Government of Turkmenistan and local
authorities in Dashkhovuz to implement the Sanitation and Health Component of the Water Supply and
Sanitation Project. The component aims at improving sanitation, health and hygiene through the
installation of improved public toilets, especially in schools and markets, as well as through health
promotion and hygiene education. The component combines activities aiming at changing the population
and authorities knowledge, attitudes and practices in relation to health, water supply, sanitation and
hygiene; with improvements in the water supply and sanitation facilities, namely by improving access to
safe water, and to handwashing and sanitation facilities in target sites such as schools and markets. The
objectives and subcomponents of the Sanitation and Health component are the following:
8.     Sanitation and Health. The objective of this component is to optimize the project's health
benefits through improved sanitation, health promotion, hygiene education, the improvement of water
quality monitoring and sanitation, and better hygiene surveillance. Almost all households in urban and



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                        Page 179
rural areas have a sanitation facility (pit latrine), but coverage is less complete in schools, markets, and
other communal facilities. Most sanitation facilities are in very poor condition and few have
handwashing facilities. This project component will target the under-served and receptive beneficiaries
by improving sanitation and hygiene schools and markets. It will rehabilitate and construct latrines and
install handwashing basins in target schools and markets in the areas covered by the project. The three
subcomponents include:
9.    Improvement of Sanitation, Hygiene and Water Supply Facilities Utilizing Community-
Based Approaches. The objective of this subcomponent is to demonstrate the benefits of safe water
usage and conservation, and of improved sanitation and hygiene through community-based activities.
Results of the school sanitation and health education demonstration project conducted as part of project
preparation have been used to design this sub-component. The subcomponent will provide local and
foreign technical assistance in community participation to develop community-based activities to
improve water supply and sanitation. The Consultant will assist the Department of Housing and
Communal Services (DHCS) to implement this subcomponent in Dashkhovuz velayet. This
subcomponent will finance the rehabilitation of latrines and installation of hand-washing basins in about
45 schools in the nine collective farms for which water supply improvements are being provided, and in
one market in each of the seven etrap centers included in the water supply component. The latrines will
be emptied at least once during project implementation, for demonstration purposes. One foreign project
manager (sanitation engineer) will train, and assist district project managers (sanitation engineers) in
managing the component and in the implementation of this subcomponent. The subcomponent will
organize training of district managers, collective farm directors and other staff in management, low-cost
sanitation, and community participation. The subcomponent will cover office space in each district, as
well as office equipment and supplies, including computers, telephones and modems to establish an
Internet link. The component would finance the purchase of one vehicle and equipment, workshops and
a study tour to Uzbekistan to visit the pilot projects developed as part of the Water, Sanitation and
Health Project.
10.    Health Promotion and Hygiene Education in Rural Areas. This subcomponent aims at
changing knowledge, attitudes and practices related to water, sanitation and health. Health promotion and
hygiene education will be carried out in the schools and markets covered by subcomponent (a) above,
and also in other rural areas. The Consultant will assist the Center of Health (Ministry of Health) in
Dashkhovuz in implementing this component. Foreign specialists in health promotion, and media
communication will train an equal number of specialists in each etrap and in the capital city. The
subcomponent will cover training of trainers, as well as of health workers, teachers and others involved
in health education in each district. In the first year, trainers of trainers will participate in a study tour to
the Estonia Health Promotion Fund and health education services. The Center in Dashkhovuz will be
rehabilitated, to install a training room for about 30 trainees. The Center will be provided with equipment
for training and for health education activities, office furniture and equipment, including computers,
telephones, and modems to establish an Internet link, as well as with one vehicle (van). The Center of
Health will also manage funds to cover for publication and communication costs (e.g., leaflets,
newsletters, newspaper space, and radio and TV time). Assisted by local and foreign experts, the Center
will carry out studies of knowledge, attitudes and practices that contribute to monitor progress and
impact of the project.
11.    Water Quality Monitoring and Sanitation and Hygiene Surveillance. This subcomponent
aims at improving water quality monitoring, and sanitation and hygiene surveillance. It will improve the
performance of the Sanitary and Epidemiological Services (SES) division of the Ministry of Health in
the velayet. This subcomponent will:



Page 180                        Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(i)    Improve water quality monitoring system  and sanitation and hygiene surveillance
systems. Responsibility for this activity will rest with the Dashkhovuz velayet SES, with assistance from
local and foreign specialists. By the end of the first year, SES stations in Dashkhovuz and in each district
will have adopted a program to monitor water quality, and to supervise sanitation and hygiene, designed
according to modem standards of practice. This first activity will provide one vehicle to each district
SES, office equipment, local and foreign technical assistance (one water quality specialist, and one
sanitation and hygiene specialist), training of trainers, and training of water quality monitoring and
sanitation and hygiene surveillance district staff, and will cover publication and dissemination of the new
monitoring and surveillance schemes to be put in place.
(ii)    Upgrade SES laboratories in Dashkhovuz velayet. The existing SES laboratories will be
refurbished and equipment for bacteriological and chemical analysis purchased. By the end of the first
year, the bacteriological/chemical laboratories in Dashkhovuz, and the 8 district bacteriological
laboratories will be rehabilitated and provided with modern equipment. This activity will provide local
and foreign technical assistance (one public health laboratory specialist, and one civil works engineer)
and training of trainers, and of laboratory staff.
(iii) Improve data collection, analysis and reporting; and conduct epidemiological studies.
Training will be provided to SES staff in data collection and analysis methods. Reporting procedures
will be revised. Equipment will be furnished to improve data analysis. Technical assistance and training
in environmental epidemiology will be provided. Epidemiological studies will be conducted as a
training vehicle as well as to investigate linkages between water and sanitation and health, and to
document impacts of the project's interventions. This activity will provide equipment, mainly computers
and software, as well as Internet connections; local and foreign technical assistance of epidemiologists
and statisticians; and training in data collection, analysis and reporting.
Scope of Work
12.   Improvement of Sanitation, Hygiene and Water Supply Facilities Utilizing Community-
Based Approaches.  The consultant's scope of work will include, but not will not be limited to the
following activities:
(i)    Assess the capability of the DHCS to undertake the maintenance of the latrines, and if
necessary develop training programs and strengthening mechanisms to allow them to function effectively
in their future capacity;
(ii)    Assist the DHCS to purchase vehicles and other equipment for the project, in accordance
with Bank guidelines;
(iii)   Develop and implement a training program for the district project managers (sanitation
engineers). Prepare and organize a minimum of 2 workshops per year in each district (etrap), for about
20 participants each, for the district project managers; and prepare and organize a minimum of 6
workshops per year in each etrap, for about 25 participants each, for collective farm committee members
and other staff on low-cost water supply and sanitation, management and community participation. The
workshops, and material provided for the workshops, will be in Russian and/or Turkmen.
(iv)   Conduct field research to establish the most appropriate locations and designs of the
proposed latrines. The consultant will discuss and agree the general approach with DHCS and other
organizations involved, as well as with communities. The handwashing facilities should be connected to
the piped water supply, where this is practicable;



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                         Pagel18
(v)    Prepare designs and tender documents  for the proposed latrines and handwashing
facilities to allow local organizations to bid for the construction work. As far as possible the designs
should utilize materials that are available locally;
(vi)   Assist the DHCS to tender the work, carry out bid evaluation and award the contract.
The consultant will also assist DHCS to comply with Bank requirements in respect of the tender process;
(vii)   Develop a program for construction of the latrines and handwashing facilities, and assist
DHCS to monitor progress against the program;
(viii)  Assist the local district project managers to supervise and manage the construction,
providing advice on construction, quality control and organizational issues;
(ix)   Develop a program for emptying latrines, and a method of disposal of the contents in a
safe and appropriate location and manner. Implement the start of this program, for demonstration
purposes, so that each latrine is emptied at least once during the project implementation;
(x)    Prepare quarterly reports indicating the progress of the subcomponent, and cumulative
on the component to date. Suggest and implement, after agreement with the local organizations, any
measures needed to keep the program on target, either in terms of time or cost. Reports will also include
expenditure to date on the project, and any items likely to increase the cost of the project.
13.    Health Promotion and Hygiene Education in Rural Areas. The consultant scope of work will
include, but will not be limited to the following activities:
(i)    Identify in Dashkhovuz and in each district staff and organizations that could be
involved in health promotion, community participation and communication activities;
(ii)    Develop and implement a training plan. Prepare and organize four training of trainers
workshops per year, for about 25 participants each, to train specialists in health promotion, community
participation and media specialists;
(iii)   Develop and implement with these specialists, and in collaboration with the district
managers, health promotion and health education plans,  first for areas where the sanitation
subcomponent will be implemented, and in a second phase for all other areas. The plans will include
training of health workers, teachers and others involved in health education in each district (about 9
workshops per year in each etrap, for about 25 participants each), as well as publications and
communication (leaflets, posters, newsletters, newspaper space, radio and TV time, etc.);
(iv)   Subcontract civil works enterprises to rehabilitate the Center of Health in Dashkhovuz;
(v)    Assist the Center of Health to purchase equipment and supplies, including education
equipment (e.g., overhead projectors, screens, televisions, videocameras, videorecorders), computers,
software and modems, and office furniture and supplies, and one vehicle; assist the Center to establish an
Internet connection;
(vi) Organize a study tour of trainers of trainers to Estonia, to visit the Health Promotion Fund
and health promotion and health education services;
(vii)   Assess and report on changes in knowledge, attitudes and practices related with water,
sanitation and hygiene, and relate these with project progress;
(viii)  Prepare quarterly reports indicating the progress of this sub-component, and cumulative
on the program to date. Suggest and implement, after agreement with the local staff and organizations,
any measures needed to keep the program on target, either in terms of time or cost. Reports will also
include expenditure to date on the project, and any items likely to increase the cost of the project.
14.    Water quality monitoring and sanitation and hygiene surveillance. The consultant's scope of
work will include, but will not be limited to the following activities:
Adoption of updated programs to monitor water quality and supervise sanitation and hygiene



Page 182                         Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect
(i)    In Dashkhovuz, and in each district SES, identify local water quality specialists, and
sanitation and hygiene specialists to prepare, implement and supervise the adoption of updated programs
to monitor water quality and supervise sanitation and hygiene;
(ii)    With these specialists, develop training plans for trainers (2 workshops/year/I 0
participants), and for district staff involved in water quality monitoring and sanitation and hygiene
surveillance (4 workshops/year/etrap/1 0 participants);
(iii)   In the first year of the project, assist SES experts to develop programs to monitor water
quality, and to supervise sanitation and hygiene, designed according to the World Health organization
guidelines and modern standards of practice;
(iv)   Assist the MOHMI in purchasing one vehicle for Dashkhovuz and each district SES, to
be assigned to the water quality monitoring, and sanitation and hygiene surveillance programs;
(v)    Assist the MOHMI to provide each SES station with office equipment, namely one
computer, printer, modem and telephone;
(vi)   Assist SES to publish and disseminate throughout the services the new monitoring and
surveillance schemes to be put in place.
Upgrade SES laboratories in Dashkhovuz and in each district.
(i)    Assess the civil works needed to rehabilitate the SES bacteriological /chemical
laboratories in Dashkhovuz and the district bacteriological laboratories, and prepare tender documents,
including designs and specifications, to allow local organizations to bid for the work;
(ii)    Assist the SES throughout the procurement process in contractor evaluation and
selection procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines and procedures;
(iii)   Assist the SES to monitor and supervise the progress and quality of the work, and
provide advice as required on construction and management issues;
(iv)   In conjunction with the MOHMI, prepare schedules of modern laboratory equipment and
furniture for the laboratories in Dashkhovuz, and the districts, and assist with the procurement through
the appropriate Bank procedures (ICB/IS/NCB);
(v)    Develop and implement a training plan for trainers of laboratory staff (six workshops for
about 20 participants), and for laboratory staff (six workshops per etrap, for about 20 participants each).
Improve data collection, analysis, and reporting.
(i)    Identify in Dashkhovuz SES three epidemiologists and three statisticians that will work
on improving SES data collection, analysis and reporting;
(ii)    Develop with these specialists a training of trainers program to be implemented in the
first months of the project with the assistance of the foreign epidemiologist and statistician;
(iii)   Develop and implement a training plan of SES staff involved in data collection, analysis
and reporting (one training of trainers workshop per year for about 20 participants each, and one
workshop per year in each etrap for about 20 participants each);
(iv)   Assist the MOHMI to provide the SES with equipment, mainly computers (3) and
software, as well as Internet connections, to be assigned to data collection, analyses and reporting;
(v)    Organize a study tour to the Kyrgyz Republic to visit health services organizing the
information network CARINFONET;
(vi)   Assist SES in carrying out studies related to water quality, sanitation and hygiene and
their impact on health. The studies will contribute to monitoring progress and impact of the project in
Dashkhovuz; and



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                        Page183l
(vii)  Prepare quarterly reports indicating the progress of this subcomponent, and cumulative
on the program to date. Suggest and implement, after agreement with the local staff and organizations,
any measures needed to keep the program on target, either in terms of time or cost. Reports will also
include expenditure to date on the project, and any items likely to increase the cost of the project.
Program
15.    This consultancy is expected to commence around January 1998, and have a duration of 24
months.
16.   The consultancy will run concurrently with other components of the project, and for the purposes
of coordination, the consultant will report to two Component Coordinators (CCs - one for the sanitation
component representing DHCS and one for the remainder of the consultancy, representing MOHMI).
The component coordinators will in turn report to a Regional Component Coordinator, based in
Dashkhovuz, who will be responsible to the Project Implementation Unit of the Ministry of Land
Reclamation and Water Resources Management in Ashgabad. The Consultancy should coordinate with
UNICEF's Water Supply and Sanitation Program in Dashkhovuz and ensure that activities are consistent
with the UNICEF approach.
17.    The consultancy includes a substantial amount of construction work, both for the Sanitation
subcomponent and for rehabilitation of laboratories and offices. The consultant will be expected to draw
up a detailed program for this work as part of the assignment, but the anticipated cumulative progress for
these works is shown in Table 1.
Staffing
18.   Improvement of Sanitation, Hygiene and Water Supply Facilities Utilizing Community-
Based Approaches. The consultant's staff will comprise a project manager (possibly sanitation engineer,
foreign, 6 person-months), who will be responsible for management and coordination of the work for the
full 24 month duration of the assignment, although it is expected that this will be achieved through part
time inputs; and a community participation specialist (foreign - 5 person-months). The project manager
will be based in Dashkhovuz, and should preferably have a knowledge of Russian and/or Turkmen. In
addition, there will be 7 local project managers (30 person months each), one in each district, who will
manage the work in their area, and a community participation specialist (30 person-months each) in each
district. The local staff will be recruited in consultation with the CC from the DHCS. It is envisaged that
the consultant will employ support staff as necessary, (total 60 local person months) e.g. interpreter, a
driver and secretarial staff. In addition to managing the sanitation subcomponent, the foreign project
manager will monitor the two other subcomponents throughout the assignment.
19.    Health Promotion and Hygiene Education. The consultant's staffing for this subcomponent is
expected to comprise short term foreign specialists supported by local staff. The foreign staff inputs will
comprise a health promoter/educator (5 person-months), and a media specialist (3 person-months)
providing expertise during the first 12 months of the assignment. The local staff will consist of a health
promoter, and a media specialist in each district (30 person-months each). The local staff will be
recruited from the Center of Health and other local organizations involved in health promotion, health
education, community participation and media activities. The consultant will employ support staffing as
necessary, including an interpreter and a secretary.



Page 184                         Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
20.    Water quality monitoring and sanitation and hygiene surveillance. The consultant's staffing
for this subcomponent is expected to comprise short term foreign specialists that will provide expertise in
Dashkhovuz, and will be supported by local staff, paid by the project on a part time basis. The foreign
staff inputs will comprise: (i) for the first activity, a water quality specialist (3 person months) and a
sanitation and hygiene surveillance specialist (4 person months) in the first year of the project. These
specialists will be assisted by one specialist in Dashkhovuz and one in each district (30 person-months
each); (ii) for the second activity, a public health laboratory specialist providing 4 months of expertise in
the first year of the project; and one civil engineer providing two months of expertise for the
rehabilitation of the public health laboratories, in the first months of the project implementation. The first
specialist will be assisted by one local public health specialist in Dashkhovuz and one in each district (30
person-months each); (iii) for the third activity, a foreign epidemiologist (2 months) and a foreign
statistician (2 months), will provide expertise during the duration of this assignment. Each of these
specialists will be assisted by 3 local experts (30 person-months each).
21.    Deliverables. The Consultant will provide the following reports in English and in Russian:
(i) Quarterly reports. These reports will indicate progress of sub-components, and cumulative
on the program to date. The reports will include recommendations for any measures needed to keep the
program on target, either in terms of time or cost. Reports will also include expenditure to date on the
project, and any items likely to increase the cost of the project.
(ii) Annual reports. These reports will indicate the progress of this component, including
performance indicators (inputs, outputs and outcomes to date); include expenditure to date on the
component, and items likely to increase the cost of the project; and recommend any measures needed to
keep the program on target, either in terms of time or cost.
(iii) Final Report. This report will contain details of the project implementation, including
problems encountered and resolved, the performance of the project against the performance indicators,
and will also comment on the sustainability of the component activities after the end of the project. It
will also make recommendations on any measures needed to improve sustainability.
22.    Logistics. The Consultant will be provided with furnished and equipped offices in Dashkhovuz
for foreign and local staff for each subcomponent: offices will also be provided in the districts for local
staff based in the districts under each subcomponent. Computers and other equipment for the offices will
be purchased by the PIU. For the Sanitation subcomponent the consultant will use a vehicle provided
under the project (purchased by the PIU) for project activities. For the Health Promotion and Water
Quality Monitoring subcomponents the consultants will be provided with transport as necessary for
project activities, generally through vehicles purchased for the project by the PIU.
24.    Equipment.   The Consultant will assist the Government in procuring the   equipment
according to The World Bank guidelines. At least 75 percent of the equipment should be purchased in
the first year of the project, and the remaining in the second year. The equipment to be purchased is the
following:
(i)    Office furniture for the Center of Health in Dashkhovuz;
(ii)    Education equipment, such as screens, overheads projectors, videos, televisions, videocameras,
etc., for the Center of Health in Dashkhovuz;
(iii)   Laboratory equipment, such as stills, sterilizers, media, bottles, membrane filters, incubators,
etc., for I bacteriological/chemical laboratory in Dashkhovuz, and for I bacteriological laboratory in
each district (8); and



Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project                        Page 185
(iv)   Laboratory furniture, for I bacteriological/chemical laboratory in Dashkhovuz, and for I
bacteriological laboratory in each district (8).
Table I      Sanitation and Health Component Program
Year I        Year 2           Year 3         Year 4          Year 5
Project Management        90%            100%
Offices
Latrines and handwashing    25%          60%             100%
basins
Public latrines emptied                                  25%             60%             100%
Other Civil Works         60%            100%
Equipment & Furniture     75%            100%
Vehicles                  75%            100%
Trainees                  25%            50%             75%             100%
Study Tours                1             2               3
Internet Connections      25%            50%             75%             100%
Water Quality Monitoring    90%          100%
Programs
Sanitation   &    Hygiene  90%           100%
Surveillance Program
Studies                   lKAP study;                    2 KAP studies;                 3 KQP studies;
I water                       2 water quality                2 waker quality
quality                        monitoring                     monitoring
monitoring                     studies;                      studies;
study;                        2 sanitation &                 2 sanitation &
I sanitation &                hygiene studies                hygiene
hygiene study.                                               studies
Monthly Health Data       12             24              36              48             60
Reports Published
Consultant Reports        Quarterly      Quarterly       Quarterly       Quarterly      Quarterly
Annual        Annual           Annual         Annual         Annual
Final



Page 186                             Turkmenistan: Water Supply and Sanitation Project
ANNEX T: PROJECT DOCUMENTS IN FILES
1.    Identification Mission Background Notes - February, 1995
2.    Needs Assessment - November, 1995
3.    Electrowatt Engineering: Monthly Reports - March, 1996 - December, 1996
4.    Electrowatt Engineering: Inception Report - April, 1996
5.    Electrowatt Engineering: Draft Feasibility Report - September, 1996
6.    Electrowatt Engineerting: Report on Public Health - September, 1996
7.    Electrowatt Engineering: Final Feasibility Report - December, 1996
8.    Electrowatt Engineering and ATTA: Report on Demonstration Projects (Annex to the Main
Feasibility Report) - December, 1996
9.    Electrowatt Engineering: Report on Remaining 97 Collective Farms - December, 1996



___________________________________________________________________                                                                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RO   28RD 3939
,  55  11                                                                           - ;  _,^, *__*MoW               RUSS                                                 RBRSSIAN
l )   y/  _     _ s 7t              -T      FED                                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
~~~ ~~~  ~~~~ ~            RUSSIAN
7         0.'..~~~~~~~~.  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~~~, ~  FED
KAZAKSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                      /
I    UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                    AZERAAN 
I    Swykomy~~~~~~~~h                    F~or Detail                                                                       -URKSA    
See -nset +                                                     :: BALKAN .  .TURKMENISTAN
..KYRGYZ REP 
TAJIDSAtlN
ASLAMACREPUBLIC                     -          k   CHINA
/t AN*I bg , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. *. ...                                                               -                                              OF' KORAN
AFGHANISTAN
Caspian                                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN',
9_=K                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~ 7 '  ,
sea
.   t   -s  .  :S  :  5  ILROADS Is -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZEISA                                                                                  02  5   5  W12  5
IGLOBETERS
.#^- ~   ~ aD.ls                                                                                                                                                                                         ANDENAIS              .**6 :-
K-                                                  ...g...cAIPORT
... SANDY DESERTN
K~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-,  ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES                                     RO~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             ~TUKMENSTA
INSET A                                                                 WATER SUPPLY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVMERI 9









IMAGING
Report No.:          16142   TM
Type:      SAR



