Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24245
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A HIGHER EDUCATION LEARNING AND INNOVATION PROJECT
May 28, 2002
Human Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 20, 2002)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
YER 174 = US$ I
US$ 1 = 0.0057
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CMT           Coordination and Management Team
CQ            Consultant Qualification
DG            Director General
EMIS           Education Management Information System
FMR           Financial Monitoring Report
FMS           Financial Management Specialist
FTE           Full-time equivalent
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
HE            Higher Education
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
ICT           Information Communication Technology
IDA            International Development Association
IDP            Institutional Development Plan
IS            International Shopping
LCS            Least Cost Selection
LIC            Learming and Innovation Credit
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MHESR          Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
MIS            Management Information System
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOPD           Ministry of Planning and Development
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NS             National Shopping
PFPM          Project Financial Procedures Manual
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PS             Procurement Specialist
SC             Steering Committee
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
SSA            Sub-Saharan Africa
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Terms of Reference
VET            Vocational Education and Training
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Mahmood Ayub
Sector Director:   Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader:     Ousmane Diagana



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HIGHER EDUCATION
CONTENTS
A. LIL Justification                                                                                                                     Page
1.   What is to be learned (why the piloting)? ..................................................................                       2
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?                                          4
3.   Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise ................................                            4
B. Structure of the Pilot
1.   How    will the learning take place? ......................................................................                         5
2.   Outcome-level test to be conducted ......................................................................                           6
3.   Steps Involved in Implementing the Pilot ......................................................................                     6
4.    Learning Expectations to be Documented in the Pilot ..........................................................                     6
5.   Triggers for a Follow-on Operation ......................................................................                           6
6.   Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements .....................................................                          7
C. Components and their Implementation Arrangements
1.   Project components ......................................................................                                           7
2.   Implementation arrangements ......................................................................                                  8
a. Procurement ......................................................................                                               8
b. Financial Management .......................................................................                                     8
c. Other ......................................................................                                                     8
D. Risks
1.   Social and Environmental Risks ......................................................................                               9
a. Safeguard Policies ......................................................................                                        9
b. Other social risks .......................................................................                                       9
2.   Other Risks ......................................................................                                                  9
E. Main Loan/Credit Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Conditions .......................................................................                                   11
2.   Other ......................................................................                                                       11
F. Readiness for Implementation ......................................................................                                       11
G. Compliance with Bank Policies ......................................................................                                      11
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .12
Annex 2. Project Description .15
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .18
Annex 4. Financial Management .19
Annex 5. Project Processing Schedule .21
Armex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arangements .22
Annex 7. Documents in the Project File .26
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits .27
Annex 9. Country at a Glance .28
MAP(S)






REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
RY-Higher Education
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSHD
Date: May 28, 2002                              Team Leader: Ousmane Diagana
Country Director: Mahmood Ayub                  Sector Director: Jacques F. Baudouy
Project ID: P076183                             Sector(s): ET - Tertiary Education
Lending Instrument: Leaming and Innovation Loan (LEL) Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
t ] Loan   p[q Credit     1 Grant     [1 Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m):
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                            Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                          Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                     0.30           0.00         0.30
IDA                                                          1.50           3.50         5.00
Total:                                                       1.80           3.50         5.30
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION & SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
Address: Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: Dr. Yahya Al Shuaibi, Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research
Tel: 967 1 213444          Fax: 967 1 213444           Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003      2004       2005      2006      2007
Annual     0.40       0.80      1.50      1.30       1.00
Cumulative     0.40      1.20      2.70      4.00       5.00
Project implementation period: 4 years (2003-2006)
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2003  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OM PAD F P- Mt UM



A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?
Objectives
The development objective of the proposed Learning and Innovation Credit (LIC) is to assist the
Government of Yemen in preparing a higher education reform strategy and to pilot initial phases of its
implementation. If successful, these initiatives would be scaled up to underpin a second, medium-term
phase of the reform which would likely require the support of the donor community including the World
Bank. The LIC responds to the Government's request for help in developing capacity in the newly created
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MHESR) required to implement major reforms
aimed at strengthening post-secondary education. The LIC would help the MHESR develop and test key
measures (the basis for broader reforms) designed to improve govemance, financing and the quality of
instruction (Annex 1). These measures would include inter alia (a) leadership and technical training for
key officials of the MHESR and the Universities of Sana'a and Aden to enable them to take the lead in
developing a higher education strategy and framework for improved govemance of the sector; (b)
preparation of the delegation of financial management to the universities on the basis of agreed program
budgets; and (c) piloting new programs in key fields (medicine, education and commerce), backstopped by
faculty training and enhanced information technology providing access to the resources of the Intenet. The
strategy for higher education and the related pilot measures will be developed and implemented in close
consultation with stakeholders (civil society, employers, labor unions, faculty, administrators and students
in both public and private institutions).
Sector Context
Yemen's education system is still under development; the balanced growth of its component
programs, underpinned by stable financing, is a priority. Primary education in particular is under
developed. The gross enrollment rate at the primary level is only 64 percent, lagging behind Sub-Saharan
Africa Islamic countries such as Guinea, Mauritania and Mali. Many children in the 6-15 year age group
remain outside the school system; and without sustained efforts to boost participation this number could
grow to 4 million by 2020. Current participation reflects gross disparities with regard to gender (only 40
percent are girls), rural populations (where only 28 percent of girls attend) and between geographic regions.
While overall expenditures on education in Yemen (7.7 percent of GDP) are higher compared with
countries in the region, the rapid growth of higher education risks jeopardizing basic education for all,
creating the specter of a significant proportion of the education budget being allocated to this sub-sector.
This tendency is apparent - between 1991-1998, the share of total expenditure for higher education and
VET increased from 10 to 19 percent of the education budget. The balanced growth of the sector as a
whole will depend on reining in the growth of higher education while simultaneously improving the
efficiency of its expenditures and the quality and relevance of its programs. Achieving these goals will
require the forging of a financially sustainable higher education strategy, relevant to national development
goals, which enjoys broad public support.
Issues in Higher Education. The key issues in higher education relate to growth, institutional
development, governance, finance and instruction. Growth: the growth of higher education has been rapid
and anarchic. Between 1990-91 and 1998-99, public enrollments more than quadrupled, from 35,000 to
155,000, with girls' participation increasing more modestly, from 5,700 to 31,000. Enrollment growth has
been distinctly imbalanced, mainly in education and other nonscientific subjects, and bears little relation to
Yemen's skill needs, qualitatively or quantitatively, or to the sub-regional labor market in which Yemen is a
traditional labor exporter. Institutional development: Given the rapid growth of higher education,
- 2 -



institutional capacity in the areas of strategic planning, programmning and budgeting, administration and
management is weak. Until recently, oversight rested with the Universities Council, a weak institution with
inadequate human resources, unrepresentative of the private sector, and meeting rarely to address issues.
To correct this, the MHESR was established in 2001. Although its policies and objectives are generally
sound, its structures and staffing are embryonic. The universities and faculties reflect similar weaknesses.
Governance: Public institutions receive their funding from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) without any
obligation to respect agreed program objectives, instructional standards, expenditure norns or to carry out
audits. University administrators have no incentive to take responsibility for the efficient use of resources,
and are equally discouraged from developing a vision and strategic plan for their institutions.
Expenditures: During the past decade government expenditure on higher education increased from YR
5.57 billion to YR 10.4 billion, with investment quadrupling to reach YR 5.2 billion. Overall, public
expenditure on higher education as a share of GDP stands at 1.1 percent, higher than Malaysia (0.9
percent) which has superior scientific and technical infrastructures. In terms of operating expenditures, the
burden of salaries is high (95 percent of total operating costs) with average salaries thirty times GDP per
capita reflecting the high proportion of foreign faculty (Egypt, Iran, Pakistan). Non-salary expenditures
are insufficient to ensure reasonable quality of instruction. Despite the high salaries, moonlighting is
common since personnel rules are not enforced.  Instruction: Given rapid enrollment growth, the
student:instructor ratio has increased from 24:1 to 40:1, without any compensatory expenditure on
instructional materials. Library stocks, a proxy for quality, represent two volumes per student, though
available funds often remain unspent (44 percent in a sample of five universities), reflecting both a failure
of instructors to keep up with their subjects and a style of teaching which favors formal lectures, rather
than individual study and research. The ratio of professorial level faculty to regular faculty is low, as is the
proportion of faculty overall holding a Ph.D. Further, the absence of a culture of self evaluation, by staff
and students, and the absence of an operational accreditation system make quality assurance elusive.
Lessons to be learned. The LIC would develop and test strategic measures (Annex 2) to improve
governance, financing and the quality of instruction which, when scaled up, would provide the foundations
for extension of the reform.
(i) Governance. The expectation is that initiatives to reinforce the planning, policy and regulatory role
of the MHESR and grow leadership and technical skills at the university level will lay the foundation
for increased institutional autonomy, with greater accountability in terms of quality and the use of
resources. The expected outcomes are: core staff at the MHESR and the two universities would be
trained, respectively, in strategic planning and policy formulation and in institutional leadership and
development; a national higher education plan and institutional development plans for the universities
would be developed with full ownership by the concemed staff and enjoy broad support.
(ii) Finance. Essential prerequisites for the progressive delegation of budget preparation and execution
to the pilot universities (and eventually to all tertiary institutions) are: an equitable funding allocation
mechanism which permits targeting and encourages competition; new budget structures and procedures
which promote the flexible use of resources, transparency, and an integrated management information
system. The MHESR's recent establishment, its commitment to reform and its lack of trained staff all
favor the design, testing and development of new systems and procedures which are departures from
the traditions and practices of Yemen public administration. The challenges will be to identify staff
with potential and commitment and to establish a strong collaborative relationship with the MOF. The
expected outcomes are: a core of trained staff at the MHESR and the two universities; an operational
fund allocation mechanism; full delegation of budgets to the two universities, with appropriate
accountability safeguards; and an MIS capable of tracking allocations, expenditures and performance
indicators.
-3-



(iii) Quality. The expectation is that providing faculty and students enhanced opportunities for
learning and development, notably through access to the resources of the Internet (distance leaming
programs and associated curriculum design methodology; search engines; data bases and library
collections) will have a positive impact on university culture, revitalizing instruction through modem
programs and independent study/research. Three faculties (medicine, education and commerce) have
been selected on the basis of their national development importance to participate in a pilot exercise
aimed at renovating the curriculum, upgrading faculty knowledge and skills and initiating a process of
critical self-evaluation required for continuous renewal, as well as to prepare for formal accreditation.
Information technology is expected to be key in backstopping these endeavors. Through an intranet
comprising the central libraries and the faculty libraries together with access to the Intemet, faculty
and students will be able to exchange ideas between campuses; contact specialists in their fields
worldwide and access resources on the Intemet (including the vast array of public domain distance
leaming courses in these fields), facilitating the modernization and individualization of instruction.
Faculty and staff will be trained in basic computer skills as well as in the use of the Intemet.
Challenges will be to select "champions" for change and key supporting staff and to maintain their
motivation. Access to information technology is expected to play a significant role in this. Expected
outcomes are: cost-effective models for program renewal and staff upgrading which can be transferred
to other fields; updated programs, renewed faculty, more individualized instruction, an operational
information and communication technology (ICT) network which can be scaled up to all university
departments; and, though more difficult to measure, a change in the culture of leaming - promoting
renewal through self-evaluation.
The LIC would finance intemational technical support for on site training and mentoring through
"twinning" arrangements with a university or university consortium with a strong track record in
institutional planning, financial management, human resource development and instructional change.
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?
Document number: IDA/R99-80, IFC/R99-65  Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/25/1999
This LIC supports the 1999 CAS by directly addressing two of the four principal objectives: (a)
creation of a modem public administration that provides public services honestly and efficiently while
encouraging private enterprise; and (b) development of an early stream of social benefits in education,
health and other services which directly address poverty. The LIC supports objective (a) by preparing a
sustainable strategy and testing measures in govemance, finance and instruction which, if successful and
scaled up, promise the delivery of well-qualified graduates to serve the public and to promote the private
sector. With regard to objective (b), the LIC promotes development of the higher education sector within
expected financing parameters, with safeguards for the financing of basic education, key to the reduction of
poverty.
If successful, the LIC would prepare the financial and governance frameworks, for further
development of the sector and put in place tested systems for the improvement of instruction which could
be extended to other tertiary institutions. The Government plans to base its medium-term investment
program for the sector largely on the results of the LIC. It is expected that it would request assistance from
the donor community for implementing its strategy over the medium term.
3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
Higher education projects in the pipeline or recently implemented (e.g. Bulgaria, Mauritania,
Bosnia, Sri Lanka, Venezuela, Mali and Guinea), as well as recent Implementation Completion Reports
-4 -



(ICRs) (Indonesia), have a common thrust - to entrust the ministry or higher education council with policy
making, regulation, evaluation, accreditation and financing, rather than with a centralized management of
the system. Consequently, institutional development focuses on educating a small core of staff on best
practice (the future policy makers) and developing strong capacity in the areas of planning, statistics, cost
analysis and budgeting (including funding mechanisms) as well as in the definition of institutional norms
and standards. At the level of the individual public and private universities, the tendency is to foster their
administrative, instructional and financial autonomy. In terms of governance, the emphasis is on
developing administrative and academic leadership, promoting greater accountability and introducing
transparent mechanisms for accreditation, providing the consumers (who increasingly bear the direct costs)
with assurance as to the quality and comparability, nationally and internationally, of the programs they are
paying for. In finance, the focus is on the adaptation of budgets and budget procedures to authorize the
delegation of spending to institutions, allowing them flexibility in the internal allocation of resources (e.g.
expenditure switching from salaries to instructional technology. The framework for these reforms is
typically a multi-year program budget (Bosnia, Guinea, Cote d'Ivoire), with contractual obligations
regarding program objectives and performance indicators. Most countries (South Africa is a good
example) are also moving toward the development of equitable mechanisms for the allocation of funds
which also encourage competition and reward progress toward meeting govenmment priorities. In Guinea,
the first higher education project also financed the development of institutional development plans (IDPs) -
a useful exercise because, for the first time, institutions were obliged to conduct self-evaluations and
develop detailed ten-year plans. Another general tendency is cost recovery through tuition fees, loan
schemes and the related reform of student aid, as well as the diversification of revenues through consulting,
applied research and demand-driven tertiary-level training programs. In terms of quality, Sri Lanka, Chile,
Argentina, Venezuela, Indonesia, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Guinea have all put in place competitive teaching,
research and innovation funds with the aim of improving the quality of instruction and research in both
public and private institutions. Senegal, Guinea, Mali and Mauritania seek to develop university libraries
and connected system-wide information systems in support of the individualization of instruction, linking
them both internally and via the Internet.
B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learning take place?
The LIC would support the newly formed MHESR in leading a process to develop and pilot key
reform measures relating to the governance, finance and quality of higher education. The pilot would focus
initially on the two leading universities: Sana'a and Aden. Learning will most importantly be at the level of
the core ministry and institutional staff through hands-on involvement in the pilot activities which they will
design, develop and test themselves, thus ensuring ownership. The institutional support provided by the
"twinned" university will, therefore, consist of inspiring, informing (best practice), facilitating (work
organization and planning), advising and mentoring (particularly leaders and promising novices). Learning
will also result from the piloting of the measures with regard to technical and economic viability, staff
profiles and training requirements, and from institutional impact and its implications for the change
process. Feedback from the broader university community and from other stakeholders will be an essential
part of the learning process, not only in terms of the pilot measures but with regard to the policy content,
the financial implications and the pace of the reform. Finally, it is expected that the support institution will
provide and interpret case studies of best practice emanating from other countries, particularly the ongoing
experiences described earlier (section A3).
-5 -



2. Outcome-level test to be conducted
Governance outcomes: the quality of the strategy and plan for higher education reform and the
associated development plans for the MHESR and two pilot universities, as assessed by a panel
comprising, among others, ministries of Finance and Planning, a senior manager from the private sector,
and prominent citizens representing civil society.
Finance outcomes:    the application of the funding allocation mechanism; performance in
executing the first year of the contractual program budgets; the design and performance of the MIS as
measured against agreed specifications and benchmarks.
Quality outcomes: evaluation of the revised pilot programns (including student feedback); the
results of faculty training; the impact of the ICT networks on the program reform process and on staff
training (in the areas of knowledge, skills, use of distance learning methods and programs) as measured by
feedback from clients and by actual use of Internet-accessed materials in curricula and training modules;
the design and performnance of the network with regard to agreed specifications and benchmarks.
3. Steps involved in conducting the pilot
The primary mechanism for design, development and piloting of the governance, finance and
quality improvement measures, and for the associated training of core ministry and university staff, would
be arranged through a "twinning" agreement with a university that has a strong track record in these
areas, possibly in collaboration with a professional association of university planners or business officers.
The process of identifying and selecting an appropriate support institution is already underway. To the
extent possible, the support institution should work with the MHESR and the two universities to identify
the core staff expected to participate in the design, testing and development of the pilot measures. With
regard to each pilot area, the first step in the critical path would be a workshop focused on current best
practice, the detailed implementation schedule, the development of task teams and the setting of goals and
expectations. Every quarter, the MHESR, the two universities and the support institution would meet to
review progress and resolve any operational difficulties. The work program and budget would be prepared
for each pilot area not later than two months before the academic year, with annual evaluations no later
than May each year, in order to better organize the work to be conducted during the summer break.
4. Learning expectations to be documented in the pilot
1 Economic      I] Technical   EL Social       El Participation
1 Financial     1 Institutional  L: Environmental Li Other
Economic. The cost/effectiveness of revised programs and training packages. The projected impact on
recurrent costs of scaling up the pilot measures.
FinanciaL The projected sustainability of higher education funding with regard to the proposed funding
mechanism, requirements for the balanced growth of the education sector and to macroeconomic
perspectives.
Institutional. Staff training results (notably with regard to leadership); quality of the higher education
strategy and the associated development plans (proxies for enhanced capacity in planning and policy
formulation).
5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
The principal triggers for a follow-on operation would be the timely availability and the quality of
the higher education development strategy and associated medium-term investment plan, together with
satisfactory delegation of budgets to the two universities (proxies for successful implementation of the
reform measures in governance and financial reforms).
- 6 -



6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation System
Annex 5 indicates the minimum set of formal monitoring measures and timing for each activity.
However, the concept of M&E is not well established in the newly created MNHESR, nor in Yemen's public
administration. The support institution or consortium will be asked to give special attention to transferring
the concept and method of M&E to the Coordination and Management Team (CMT) and to the leaders of
the pilot activity teams. The first intervention in this regard will be the start up workshop where the
discussion of the implementation schedule and expected outcomes will provide an opportunity for each
team to draft an initial evaluation plan, developing indicators and instruments.
C. Project Components and Implementation Arrangements
1. LIL Components
A. Governance - US$1.8 million
This component would support the Govemment in developing a strategy and medium term
development plan for the sector, and a legislative and institutional framework promoting improved
govemance and management. Specific activities include: (a) the participative development of a national
strategy for the reform of HE and the preparation of a medium term investment program; (b) capacity
building in the MHESR; and (c) leadership and technical training to prepare the two universities for the
assumption of delegated managerial responsibility and accountability.
B. Finance - US$0.4 million
This component would support the process of financial delegation to the two universities through:
the redesign of budget structures and procedures to facilitate flexible allocation of resources and efficient
expenditure, and through program budgets with contractual obligations in terms of objectives and
performance indicators. It would also assist in the development of an equitable funding mechanism for
universities, promoting competition and the achievement of priority objectives such as the participation of
girls and greater diversification of income through tailored, on-demand courses and services. Finally, it
would assist in the acquisition and adaptation, including related training, of an integrated MIS, permitting
the timely tracking of financial transactions as well as providing other key institutional management
information, serving the MHESR and the two universities.
C. Quality - US$3.15 million
This component would help improve leaming and upgrade opportunities for students and faculty in
selected faculties (medicine, education, commerce) by piloting strategic initiatives with regard to: (a) the
evaluation, modemization and piloting of programs, building on renewal efforts already under way,
together with the upgrading of the knowledge and teaching skills of the faculty and support staff; (b) in
support of program renewal, the design, development, and piloting of an ICT network linling the central
libraries and faculty libraries, facilitating faculty and student exchanges via an intranet and providing
access to the resources of the Intemet; (c) assistance to the two universities in initiating a process of
self-evaluation and improvement and the development of agreed standards which could be applied by other
public sector universities, as a basis for future accreditation; and (d) intemal assessment of a selected
private institution and the design and piloting of a trial accreditation, to prepare for the early extension of
accreditation to Yemen's private universities, based on rigorous and transparent quality standards.
- 7 -



Indicative             Bn-I      %o
.i I, Component -r                        Costs     %of      financing Cank-
____i__E ____l ____ .______,-____l                 (US$M)     Total     (US$M)   financing
1. Governance                                           1.80     34.0       1.60      32.0
2. Finance                                              0.40       7.5      0.35       7.0
3. Quality                                              3.10      58.5      3.05      61.0
Total Project Costs                   5.30      100.0      5.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                     5.30     100.0       5.00     100.0
2. Implementation Arrangements
The MHESR will have overall responsibility for implementing the LIC. To that end, a steering
committee (SC) responsible for oversight and policy matters has been established, together with a
Coordination and Management Team (CMT) in the MHESR. The SC will be chaired by the Minister of
Higher Education and comprise the Vice Minister, Deputy Ministers, representatives of the Ministries of
Planning & Development and Finance and a representative each from Sana'a and Aden universities. The
SC will oversee the work of the CMT and review and approve annual activity plans and budgets, progress
reports and review and sign off on the annual audits. The CMT will be headed by the Vice Minister of the
MHESR and will include a financial management specialist (FMS), a procurement specialist (PS), and a
technical coordinator, who will liaise with and provide support to participating faculties and departments.
The CMT's responsibilities include: the management of the Credit including procurement, disbursements,
and the special account; the preparation of semi-annual progress reports (technical, financial and
procurement) for the review and approval of the SC and IDA, and annual audits.
a. Procurement
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out (Annex 6). It found that none of the MHESR
procurement staff have experience with donor-financed projects or speak English. Consequently, a PS will
be selected prior to the Bank's approval of the Credit, on a competitive basis. The PS will assume
responsibility for all procurement activities and work closdly with the FMS on the reporting of procurement
and contract management. Preference will be given to a specialist who is already familiar with
procurement under Bank-financed contracts and with national bidding procedures, as agreed by IDA. A
procurement plan has been prepared and is part of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP); it will be updated
semi-annually. A workshop will be held prior to Credit effectiveness to familiarize the CMT and task
leaders of pilot initiatives with IDA procurement procedures.
b. Financial Management
An assessment was made (Annex 4) of the organization, staffing and procedures of the Directorate
General of Financial Affairs in the MHESR. The main findings were that transactions are recorded
manually; there is little analysis of accounting data, and auditing is limited to government inspection. The
principal recommendations agreed with the MHESR to be implemented prior to Credit effectiveness and
after consultation with IDA are: (a) the design and installation of a computer-based accounting and project
management information system, capable of generating the required semi-annual reports in the prescribed
format; and (b) the appointment of independant auditors, acceptable to IDA.
c. Other
Not applicable.
-8 -



D. Risks
1. Social and Environmental Risk
The principal risks are political and institutional. Risks and mitigation measures related to the
project's components are given below.
a. Safeguard Policies
The Project will have no adverse environmental impacts as it will not include civil works.
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
b. Other Social Risks
The curtailment of admissions and other measures such as increased cost sharing might be seen as
inequitable by the general public. The political pressures generated might find expression in the elections
planned for May 2003, leading to an "open door" admissions policy for higher education which could result
in severe, destabilizing pressure on the overall education budget. Under such a scenario, the autonomy of
the universities to control admissions and maintain adequate non-salary expenditures per student would be
jeopardized, with negative implications for the qualitative improvement measures to be tested and
developed under the LIC. To mitigate these risks, both the MHESR, the Ministry of Education (MOE)
and the MOF would give priority to informing the public, through the media and ad hoc meetings with
interest groups, of the economic and financial constraints that Yemen faces and the choices those
constraints imply: controlling the growth of the higher education budget if the nation's goal of basic
education is to be met and the corollary, the need to balance the admissions rate and overall enrollments
against the quality of public higher education or to pass more of the recurrent cost burden to parents while
encouraging the development of the private sector. The planned national conference on higher education
strategy is a logical setting for airing and discussing these issues.
2. Other (external, reflecting the failure of the assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The MHESR, a new ministry, is not          H         Ensure that strategy and associated policies are
accepted as credible by stakeholders                  sound, fiscally responsible and carefully
discussed, with the support of the ministries of
education and finance
Carefully select senior staff and systematic staff
development
The MOF does not delegate budgets and       H         Develop a shared strategy and development
management responsibility to the                      plan through participation, leading to
universities                                          understanding and acceptance of the reciprocal
roles and responsibilities of the MOF, the
MHESR and the universities
Train university staff to assume their
responsibilities
Civil servants and unions oppose the        M         Involve union representatives and staff
reforms, notably measures related to                  associations in the change process
-9-



governance
Work to ensure ownership of the new systems
and procedures by giving MHESR and
university staff the lead in their design and
development, particularly with regard to setting
standards of accountability
From Components to Outputs
Governance                                 M         Give special attention in the selection process to:
Selected TA support is weak and lacks
capacity in training and team building               - demonstrated institutional excellence in the
areas of governance, financial management and
instructional change
- prior successful experience in providing
overseas advisory services via team building and
mentoring
- commitment to involving senior faculty in the
management and technical direction of the
support effort
- contractual clauses which pennit the flexible
substitution of advisors and specialists in a
timely fashion (and permit contracting of a
consortium)
The technical quality of the measures      M         Implement objective, independent assessment of
proposed for testing and development is              the measures and the plans for their piloting by
inadequate                                           qualified external specialists
Similarly, involve external specialists in
assessing results and plans for scaling up
Finance. The proposed national funding     M         Careful simulation of alternative formulae to
formula for higher education proves                  explore the dimensions of equity, flexibility in
controversial and is challenged by                   terms of targeting objectives and incentives
institutions which fear losing funds
Involve university, MHESR and MOF staff in
the decision-making process, enabling them to
simulate the outcomes of different approaches.
Ensure timely and adequate training for the staff
charged with application of the selected formula
Quality. The planning, operation and       M         Learn from the experiences of other countries
maintenance of the proposed faculty/                 which have pioneered this approach and from
library intranet and associated Internet             other agencies, notably USAID
access proves difficult to implement on a
time scale and with the desired impact               Negotiate sound financial terms with the
selected Internet Service Provider and for the
- 10 -



use of land lines (phone company)
Ensure qualified technical staff and adequate
operating funds
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
E. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Financial management system established; and (b) auditor appointed.
2. Other (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)
Not applicable
F. Readiness for Implementation
0l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
z 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
i 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0l 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
G. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
1,gf Ousmane Diagana                  Jac      . Baudouy                         Ayub
Team Leader                        ecor Director                    Country Director



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RY-Higher Education
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Creation of a modem public  Higher education strategy  Annual sector budget reviews; Sustainable budgets in the
administration that provides  prepared               reviews of university program  face of macroeconomic
public services honestly and                         budget implementation     constraints
efficiently while encouraging  Financial and operational
private enterprise        indicators                                           Public support for MJIESR's
reforms and strategy
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Implement higher education  Results of scaled-up measures Annual reviews of the higher  Idem
reform, by scaling up                                education strategy, action plans
governance, financial and  Budget execution          and budgets
quality initiatives to the sector
level through a financially
viable development plan
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Develop and test key      Approval of a strategic plan  Progress reports on financial  The newly instituted MHESR
measures to improve       and multi-year development  and management performance is seen as credible by
governance, financing and  program, with donor support, indicators             stakeholders: takes the lead in
quality of instruction,   building on the measures                             initiating the participatory
underpinning the higher   piloted under the LIC                                planning; and accepts its
education reform                                                               financing and regulatory role,
Development plans and linked Reviews of institutional  delegating autonomy to the
program budgets for Sana'a  development plans and    universities
and Aden universities for  budgets
2004
Greater accountability and  Academic results in key  No significant opposition to
competition for resources  programs (medicine,       reform measures
education and commerce)
- 12-



Key Perfornance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Governance (US$ 1.8
million)
(i) Enhance capacity in the  (i) Quality of technical work  (i) Independent technical  (i) Effective mentoring,
MHESR for planning, policy  as assessed by extemal   evaluations of initial design  training and team building by
formulation and finance    reviewers; the MTR and end  and piloting plans and of pilot the selected university
of project review         results; supervision missions; consortium
MTR
(ii) Key administrators and  (ii) Leadership assessments  (ii) Evaluations of training
faculty at Sana!a and Aden  and training results     and annual performance
universities trained in the                          reviews
leadership and technical skills On-the-job performance
required for the autonomous
management of these
institutions
B. Finance (US$0.4 million)
(i) Adaptation of financial  (i) Allocations, income and  (i) Program budgets of pilot  (i) Political will to adapt
regulations, budget        expenditures are transparent, institutions and budget  current systems and
organization, systems and  reflect agreed systems and  implementation assessments  procedures
procedures, permitting     procedures and standards of
delegation of authority to the  accountability
universities
(ii) Staff at Sana!a and Aden  (ii) Pilot program budgets  (ii) Review of budget
universities trained in   prepared                   operations (teamwork, validity
program budgeting                                    of costing, timeliness) -
supervision missions, MTR,
(iii) Development of equitable (iii) Annual budget   (iii) Annual reports on student (iii) Acceptance of a national
higher education funding  implementation results     financial aid and priority  financing mechanism - as
formula(e) with special                              objectives                opposed to an
incentives for meeting key  Performance with regard to                         institution-by-institution
program objectives        incentives                                           approach
(iv) Acquisition, installation  (iv) System performance  (iv) MIS reports      (iv) Support institution has a
and training relative to an  standards                                         strong record in operating an
MIS adapted to the needs of                                                    effective MIS and experience i
the MHESR and the pilot   Staff training results                               tranferring the technology
universities
C. Quality (US$ 3.1 million)
(i) Programs (medicine,   (i) Student and faculty   (i) Formative and summative (i) TA experienced in distance
education and commerce)   feedback                   evaluation mechanisms      eaming and library
which reflect best practice and                                                information systems.
-13 -



make effective use of ICT
including distance learning
(ii) Effective approaches to  (ii) CostJeffectiveness of  (ii) Student feedback   (ii) Selected support
faculty upgrading piloted  training modules                                       institutions have strong
apacity in faculty upgrading
(iii) ICT infrastructure and  (iii) Network development plan (iii) Monthly operations reports (iii) Competent and timely
oftware installed, operational by January 2003        from system administrator  technical support and systems
and effectively utilized by key                                                   maintenance
users
Accreditation standards     System perfonnance results  Istitution-level assessments  Establishmnent of performance
stablished for the private  (system availability; software  (management, faculty,  standards and a climate of
sector and measures for self  "menus" and performance)  programs, physical facilities,  accountability
evaluation and external     Results of pilot self evaluations IT and library systemns)
assessment piloted          and accreditation reviews                              Support institutions
xperienced in organizig
internal assessment and
conducting accreditation
-14 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RY-Higher Education
The Reform
There is consensus in Yemen that the higher education (HE) system needs major reorientation and
reform. Reorientation would focus on increasing the proportion of students from under-represented groups,
those taking practical and scientific subjects, and on better defining the roles, financing and enrollment
policies of private universities, community colleges and other tertiary institutions. Reform would address
the issue of delegating greater responsibility and accountability to individual institutions on the basis of
contractual obligations (program budgets with specific targets), competition and of the diversification of
income. In 2002, the Governnent made a major decision which will reduce the pressures imposed by
uncontrolled growth and facilitate internal reform - new admissions have been cut by 50 percent with
regard to the previous year. However, many challenges remain:
*   Creating the capacity at the MHESR  in the areas of strategic planning, policy formulation,
regulation and financing
*   Developing leadership at the institution, faculty and department levels in administration, financial
and personnel management and in instruction
* Promoting transparent and participatory mechanisms for governance and for the quality assurance
of programs
*   Growing the capacity to promote administrative and financial autonomy at the university level
through strategic planning, programming and budgeting
*   Making program content more relevant to national and sub-regional priorities while providing the
higher level skills required to provide a foundation for life long learning and career opportunity
*   Identifying and piloting cost effective measures for improving the quality of instruction
*   Promoting the incipient private sector (there are already eight private universities) by establishing
norms for national accreditation by facilitating access to bank credit and by promoting
demand-driven community college programs, with the objective of offering viable alternatives to
publicly funded institutions
This is a daunting agenda which cannot be tackled on all fronts at once. Rather, the strategy is to
identify and pilot key interventions which will provide the foundation for future investmnent in the sector.
The LIC
The proposed LIC would support innovative, pilot measures preparing for system-wide reform in
the governance and finance, and for improvements in the quality of instruction. In the first year, the design
of these measures would be completed while the second and third years would be devoted to piloting and
formative evaluation. In year four, the costs, effectiveness, staffing and operating environment would be
evaluated with a view to developing detailed action plans for scaling up and extension to other institutions.
The program would have three inter-related components: governance, finance and quality.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.80 million
Objective. The development of a financially sustainable strategy and medium term development program
for HE based on enhanced governance and improved management, notably the delegation of spending
-15 -



authority to the pilot universities, Sana'a and Aden, on the basis of agreed institutional development plans.
Key activities would include:
(a)    The participative development of a national strategy for the reform of HE;
(b)    Capacity building for the newly established MHESR; and
(c)    Preparation of two universities -Sana'a and Aden - to assume the delegation, on a pilot basis,
of substantial managerial responsibility and accountability.
Under (a), technical assistance would focus on the facilitation of the policy development process, on the
mentoring of core planning groups in the MHESR and on the development of a broad policy dialogue,
culminating in a national conference to validate the national higher education strategy, policies and
financing.
Activities under (b) would include the on-site professional development of key MHESR staff, with an
emphasis on strategic planning and policy-making and the ministry's technical advisory role with regard to
the Higher Council of Higher Education and the contracting of local consultants to assist the ministry in
specific tasks, notably the drafting of legislation and regulations pertaining to the sector, with particular
reference to the delegation of powers to the universities.
Activities under (c) would prepare Sana'a and Aden Universities for enhanced govemance and management
responsibilities. They would include the development of the leadership skills of the rectors and their senior
management teams, combining an exposure to international practice with a broader program of training for
academic and non-academic staff in the two universities. Technical assistance would focus on preparing
case studies and training materials reflecting best practice. Additionally, technical assistance would help
identify and adapt an appropriate management information system (MIS) to serve the needs of the MHESR
and higher education institutions. The MIS would encompass inter alia student admissions and records,
student performance, faculty evaluations and career data, unit costs and financial data, to provide timely
information for academic planning, budget preparation, financial control and quality assurance.
Project Component 2 - US$0.40 million
Objective. Support and promote the delegation of financial planning and expenditure authority to public
HE institutions, encouraging them to use their resources flexibly and efficiently, while diversifying their
sources of income.
To ensure the equitable allocation of public funds to HE institutions, a transparent formula would be
developed which would both reward efficient use of resources and progress in targeting priority policy
objectives such as increasing the production of graduates in fields irnportant for national development, the
participation of girls, students from rural areas and under privileged backgrounds, and increasing the
proportion of women in faculties.
This component would comprise technical assistance and training in support of five key activities:
(a)    A review of current budget regulations and practices, and the formulation and testing of budget
structures, categories and procedures which would facilitate the delegation of budget
management to the institutional level and promote accountability
(b)    The design, preparation and testing, in close collaboration with the MOF and MHESR, of
program budgets with clear benchmarks with regard to funding, program objectives and
performance objectives
- 16-



(c)    The development of a transparent formula for the allocation of public sector funding
(d)    The acquisition and adaptation of a financial management system facilitating the application of
the allocation formula and the transfer and tracking of delegated funds
(e)    Training of financial planning and management staff in the pilot universities to prepare them
for the delegation of financial responsibilities by the MHESR
Project Component 3 - USS 3.10 million
Objective. Improve learning and upgrade opportunities for students and faculty in selected faculties
(medicine, education, commerce) by piloting strategic initiatives with regard to the modernization of
programs, related staff upgrading, independent study/research via the Internet, self-evaluation and
accreditation.
This component would comprise:
(a)    The evaluation, modernization and piloting of programs in medicine, education and commerce
at Sana'a and Aden Universities, building on renewal efforts already under way, together with
the upgrading of knowledge and teaching skills of the faculty and support staff
(b)    The support of program renewal, the design, development, and piloting of an ICT network
linking the central libraries and faculty libraries, facilitating faculty and student exchanges via
an intranet and providing access to the resources of the Internet (inter alia. world class
distance learning (DL) courses and DL design technology; professional exchanges, search
engines, databases, library collections and research articles), together with appropriate systems
support and maintenance
(c)    Assistance to the two universities in initiating a process of self-evaluation and improvement,
and the development of agreed standards which could be applied by other public sector
universities, as a basis for future accreditation
(d)   Internal assessment of a selected private institution and the design and piloting of a trial
accreditation, to prepare for the early extension of accreditation to Yemen's private
universities, based on rigorous and transparent quality standards
The Credit would finance technical support by recognized specialists in the relevant disciplines, seconded
by a university with the capacity to substitute or supplement staff as required, as well as to offer the
perspective of longer term support through "twinning" arrangements.
- 17 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RY-Higher Education
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million   US $million   US $million
1. Govemnance                                               0.60          0.90          1.50
2. Finance                                                  0.10          0.20          0.30
3. Quality                                                  0.85          1.80          2.65
Total Baseline Cost                                          1.55         2.90          4.45
Physical Contingencies                                     0.20          0.40          0.60
Price Contingencies                                        0.10          0.15          0.25
Total Project Costsl               1.85          3.45          5.30
Total Financing Required                1.85          3.45          5.30
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million   US $million   US $million
Goods                                                         0.10           0.65          0.75
Services                                                      0.55           1.30          1.85
Training                                                      1.00           1.45          2.45
Operating costs                                               0.15           0.10          0.25
Total Project Costs'       1.80          3.50          5.30
Total Financing Required        1.80          3.50          5.30
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 5 3 (US$m) Therefore, the project cost sharingratio is 94.34% oftotal
project cost net of taxes.
- 18 -



Annex 4: Financial Management
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RY-Higher Education
1. Management. The management of the project funds, including the proceeds of the Credit and counterpart
funds will be the responsibility of the MHESR and will be carried out by the Coordination and Management
Team (CMT) in accordance with the Government-based accounting system. This system permits the
commitment and payment of expenditures on the basis of annual budgets allocated through the national
budget process. Budget chapters and line items are prescribed by the Budget Law and commitments against
them are determiined by procedures established by the Budget Law of 1991. All commitments are authorized
by the MHESR and the Director General (DG) of Financial Affairs. Payment orders and checks are issued by
the Minister or the Vice Minister, countersigned by the DG and Director of Accounting. Any payment order
which exceeds or is outside the budget allocation must be approved by the MOF. Ministries report regularly
to the MOF on the status of their budget commitments and payments.
2.   Department of Financial Affairs. The Department of Financial Affairs comprises two departments:
accounts and purchasing. The accounts department comprises five divisions: budget, record keeping, overseas
students, archives and intend control. This department also manages the petty cash expenses of the ministry
based on an imprest system (revolving fund principal). The department has nine staff, mostly university
graduates. The department's operations are subject to the government finance and accounting manual, as well
as the regulations and circulars issued by the MOF. Currently, all transactions are recorded manually.
However, the department plans to introduce a computerized accounting system before the end of 2002. In line
with other government agencies, the ministry accounts are audited under the annual, general audit of the state
budget. This audit is performed by government auditors.
3. Accounting System. The current, manual accounting system is not equipped to provide the financial data
needed for the proper management of the project activities and progress reporting. However, agreement has
been reached with the MHESR to put in place simplified procedures aimed at complementing the present
financial system for the purposes of the project, maldng provision for the management of special accounts
(SA), other bank statements, project assets and inventory, procurement and contract management; internal and
external auditing. The procedures will be documented in a Project Financial Procedures Manual (PFPM),
which will be prepared by the financial management specialist (FMS) of the project with the help of a qualified
private consultant. The CMT will develop and disseminate financial statements and reports, ensuring timely
audits. Funds received from different resources (e.g. other donors) will be identified separately and reflected in
the project accounts and financial statements. Tracking documents will reflect all project related receipts,
expenditures, and other payments as well as project management costs. The modified accounting software is
expected to be installed by Credit effectiveness. To ensure a sound modified financial management system, the
project will recruit a qualified FMS from the private sector.
5. Coordination & Management Team (CMT). The CMT will comprise a coordinator, a financial officer
and a procurement officer. This team will be under the supervision of the Vice Minister. The team will be
responsible for:
*   financial management of the project, ensuring the efficient and tranWarent use of the financial
resources according to sound financial practices; coordinating and controlling the flow of funds;
*   establishment of the modified accounting system; maintaining accurate and timely accounting records
and related supporting documents;
*   ensuring that all payments are in line with the budget, are properly authorized and respect IDA's
financial and procurement procedures and regulations;
-19-



*   preparation and submission of semi-annual financial monitoring reports
*   ensuring that the project's annual financial statements are audited regularly, in a timely fashion and in
conformity with IDA requirements.
The financial and accounting staff of MHESR are not familiar with the Bank's procedures and requirements.
Consequently, a training workshop will be implemented prior to project launching.
6. Financial Monitoring Reports to be submitted to IDA: Semi-annual financial monitoring reports (FMR)
will be submitted to IDA regularly within 45 days after the close of each semester. The CMT will submit
reports on sources and uses of funds, cash flow projections and needs as specified by the FMR, together with
reports on procurement, project activities and physical implementation. The FMR will summarize the
financial position of the project. The FMR format will be agreed with the MHESR by project negotiations at
the latest, and will be included in the PFPM, reflecting the modifications of the financial management system.
7. Annual External Audit. The project's annual financial statements will be audited in accordance with
standards acceptable to the Bank. Terms of reference (TOR) for this assignment will include an assessment of
the operation and results of the financial management system, including a review of the intemal control
mechanism. The audit will be performed by an Independent Auditor. The MHESR will provide the auditor
with access to project-related documents and records and other information required by the auditor for the
purpose of the audit. Auditors will be appointed for the project prior to Credit effectiveness. The Auditors
would initially be appointed for one year. Depending on satisfactory performance, the contract may be
extended for an additional period. Both the Auditors and their TORs will need to be acceptable to the Bank.
Annual external audit reports on the financial statements of the project will be submitted to the Bank not later
than April 30 in the year following the year for which the project accounts are audited, with a separate opinion
on statements of expenses and the SA, and with practical recommendations for improvement in the project's
accounting and internal control system as necessary.
8. Disbursement Arrangements. To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the MHESR will
open a SA in US dollars at the Central Bank of Yemen under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. An
advance will be transferred by IDA to the SA upon Credit effectiveness and receipt of a signed withdrawal
application from MHESR. The total authorized allocation of US$500,000 represents four months' average
projected expenditures from the SA. Initially, the allocation will be limited to US$200,000 and may be
increased to the total allocation of US$500,000 when disbursements reach SDR 1.5 million. Disbursements
from the Credit will be transaction-based disbursements against withdrawal applications for reimbursement
and replenishment to the SA supported by SOEs or full documentation, direct payment and special
commitment supported by full documentation. Authorized signatories, names and corresponding specimens of
their signatures will be submitted to IDA before submission of the first withdrawal application.
9. IDA Project Financial Management Supervision. IDA supervision will be provided by the Yemen
Country Office. The Country Office will ensure that the CMT accounting system has been set up and is able
to generate the required semi-annual FMRs. After Credit effectiveness, a Project Launch Workshop will take
place where the MHESR, Universities and CMT staff will be trained on IDA rules, regulations and guidelines.
In addition to the day-to-day supervision to be carried out by the TTL from the field, semi-annual formal
supervisions will be organized by IDA visiting the CMT among others.
- 20-



Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RY-Higher Education
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       5                         5
First Bank mission (identification)              11/01/2001                11/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     02/10/2002                 02/10/2002
Negotiations                                    04/21/2002                 04/23/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/01/2003
Prepared by:
Ministry of Higher Education & Scientific Research
Preparation assistance:
Ousmane Diagana, TTL; Regina Bendokat, Sector Manager; Afif Al-Saqqaf, Financial Management
Specialist; Celine Gavach, Operations Analyst; Gary Thiesen, Senior Education Specialist; Hind Tawfeek,
Program Assistant; Michael J. Wilson, Economist/Planner (Consultant); David Forrester, Higher
Education Specialist (Consultant).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Regina Bendokat                   Sector Manager
Ousmane Diagana                   TTL, Institutional assessment, Planning and Budgeting
Gary L. Thiesen                   Senior Education Specialist/Quality
Takako Yuki                       Financing (Consultant)
David Forrester                   Govemance and Quality (Consultant)
Michael J. Wilson                 Quality, ICT and EMIS (Consultant)
Afif Al-Saqqaf                    Financial Management Specialist
Celine Gavach                     Operations Analyst, Implementation arrangements
Hind Tawfeeck                     Program Assistant
Mira Hong                         Program Assistant
Rafika Chaouali                   Financial Management Specialist
Mario Zelaya                      Procurement Accredited Staff (Consultant)
-21 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RY-Higher Education
Procurement
Procurement in Yemen is governed by Law No. 3 of 1997 for Government Tenders, Auctions and
Stores and by Comprehensive Regulations introduced by Prime Minister's Decree No. 234 of 1997.
The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MHESR) was created in April 2001
and has a limited number of staff (about 35 at the time of project appraisal in February 2002). A
procurement assessment found that the two current MHESR procurement staff have no experience with
donor-financed projects and are not proficient in English, a requirement for project staff. Consequently, the
recruitment of a qualified procurement specialist (PS) will be a condition of credit approval by the Bank.
The PS will be responsible for all procurement activities and contract management.
Within its mandate to assist the MHESR in the coordination and administration of the IDA Credit,
the Coordination and Management Team (CMT) will cover a wide range of responsibilities, ranging from
managing procurement (mainly technical assistance, training and goods) to overseeing, monitoring and
evaluating overall project implementation. The CMT will be under the direct responsibility of the Vice
Minister of the HESR. The CMT will be staffed with qualified professional staff hired through a
competitive process from the private sector, to include a technical coordinator, PS, and financial
management specialist (FMS). The TOR of these staff are available in the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP), and their recruitment will be carried out prior to the Credit approval by the Bank.
Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for -Procurement under
IBRD Loans and Credits - January 1995 and revisions through January 1999, and for--Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers-- January 1997 and revisions through January
1999. The Bank's guidelines and standard documents will be used for the procurement of goods, and for
the selection of consultants. ICT and EMIS equipment will be procured under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, with mandatory use of Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Evaluation
Reports. It is expected that all other equipment, of small value, will be procured under International or
National Shopping (IS/NS) procedures.
- 22 -



Table B: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expendfture, Category            ICB              NCB           Qther-        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Goods                              0.67                            0.08          0.00        0.75
(0.63)                          (0.07)       (0.00)       (0.70)
2. Services                                                           1.30          0.00        1.30
(1.20)        (0.00)       (1.20)
3. Training                                                           3.00          0.00        3.00
(2.90)        (0.00)      (2.90)
4. Operating Costs                                                    0.25          0.00        0.25
(0.20)        (0.00)      (0.20)
Total                              0.67                            4.63          0.00        5.30
(0.63)                          (4.37)        (0.00)      (5.00)
Totals may not add up due to rounding
"1 Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes: goods to be procured through international and national shopping, consulting services, twinning
arrangements, training, and technical assistance services.
3/
Includes: fuel, office supplies, banking charges, communication and translation services, local travel
costs (including transport and per diem), advertising, mailing and shipping costs, labor costs and other
consumables.
Procurement methods (Table A)
GOODS. Goods to be procured under the credit represent 19.4 percent of the total credit amount,
and will consist of computers, software, and equipment for ICT, EMIS and office operations, and are
estimated at US$800,000. Goods with estimated contract value above US$100,000 will be procured
through ICB procedures. Goods with an estimated contract values below US$100,000 will be procured
through IS/NS procedures by soliciting at least three competitive quotations from suppliers, in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Goods with an estimated contract value below US$5,000, up to an aggregate amount
of US$10,000, will be procured from the nearest available source using Direct Contracting.
SERVICES. Services to be contracted include long-term and short-term intemational and national
technical specialists, trainers, financial specialists, and auditors.  Quality and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) will be used to select finms to develop an EMIS, design a training plan for universities, and design
an information technology network. Auditors will be selected using the Least Cost Selection (LCS).
Selection of firms for contracts below US$50,000 will follow the Consultants' Qualification Selection
(CQ3. For contracts with individual consultants, the Selection of Individual Consultants method according
to IDA's guidelines will be used. In exceptional cases justified by the Borrower, Single-Source Selection
(SS) may be used, subject to IDA's "no objection".
TWINNING ARRANGEMENTS. The primary mechanism for the professional development of
academic staff will be through a "twinning" agreement with a university with a strong track record in
selected areas, possibly in collaboration with a professional association of university planners or business
officers. Selection would be made on the basis of QBS. This selection will be based on detailed TOR, and
- 23 -



selection criteria set out in a Request for Proposals (RFP).
Prior review thresholds
Goods: All goods contracts, with an estimated value above US$100,000 equivalent, and the first
goods contract with an estimated value below US$100,000, will be subject to prior review. Services: All
TORs, regardless of the amount of the contract, will be subject to IDA prior review. All contracts above
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants, as well as the first contract for firms
under US$100,000, -and the first contract for individual under US$50,000, will be subject to IDA prior
review (TORs, short lists, requests for proposals, draft contract, technical and financial proposals, contract
award). The TOR of every contract will also be subject to prior review, regardless of the amount of the
contract. All other contracts (about 30% of which are to be financed under the Credit) will be subject to
ex-post review and procurement audit. Ex-post reviews will be conducted randomly during supervision
missions, on a regular basis.
Procurement Planning. The monitoring system which will be adopted for goods and services will
include data on the main procurement steps (date of advertisement, bid document date, bid evaluation date,
awarded bidder, estimated and actual cost, progress to date versus plan). A detailed procurement plan has
been prepared for the first year of the project, is included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), and will
serve as MHESR's blueprint for subsequent years.
Frequency of overall supervision missions proposed: one every six months, including ex-post review of
randomly selected contracts. The World Bank office in Yemen, however, will carry out procurement and
financial supervision, as often as required.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
The major risk perceived during the appraisal of the project is the lack of a qualified procurement specialist
in the MHESR. However, before Credit negotiations, the MHESR had already demonstrated its
commitment by beginning the competitive selection process to hire three staff in the CMT (one of them
being a procurement specialist) with qualifications acceptable to the Bank. The three positions will be
filled by Credit approval. The risk is considered moderate since only three procurement packages for goods
are expected. In addition, more than 70 percent of consultant contracts to be financed under the Credit are
estimated to be of low amount, and are expected to attract individual consultants.
-24-



Disbursement
The Credit of US$5.0 million will be disbursed over a 4-year period. All project activities are expected to
be completed by June 30, 2006, and the Credit will close on December 31, 2006.
Table B: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenidlture Category        Amount'in'USmItlibn         Flnancing Percentage
1. Goods                                    0.60            100% of foreign expenditures 100%
ex-factory 80% local expenditures
2. Services                                 1.50           100% for international consultants and
80% for local consultants
3. Training                                 2.10          100% for international training activities
and 80% for local training activities
4. Operating Costs & Maintenance            0.20              100% until December 31, 2003
75% until December 31, 2004
50% until December 31, 2005
25% thereafter
5. Unallocated                              0.60
Total Project Costs                         5.00
Total                                       5.00
Operating costs nclude: fuel, office supplies, cornimunication and translation services, local travel costs (including
transport and per diem), advertising, mailing and shipping costs, staff salanes of CMT.
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the MHESR will open a special Account (SA) in
US dollars at the Central Bank of Yemen under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. An advance will
be transferred by IDA to the SA upon Credit effectiveness and receipt of a signed withdrawal application
from MHESR. The total authorized allocation of US$500,000 represents four months' average projected
expenditures from the SA. Initially, the allocation will be limited to US$200,000 and may be increased to
the total allocation of US$500,000 when disbursements reach SDR 1.5 million. Disbursements from the
Credit will be transaction-based disbursements against withdrawal applications for reimbursement, and
replenishment to the SA supported by SOEs or full documentation, direct payment and special commitment
supported by full documentation. Authorized signatories, names and corresponding specimens of their
signatures will be submitted to IDA before submission of the first withdrawal application.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements for goods contracts below US$100,000,
services contracts below US$100,000 for firns, and US$50,000 for individuals, as well as for training,
operating costs and maintenance, will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Documentation will be maintained by the CMT and made available for review by members of IDA
supervision missions. Documentation relating to SOEs will be retained for up to one year after the final
withdrawal from the Credit.
Documentation for withdrawals. Withdrawal applications for contracts for goods valued at more than
US$ 100,000, and for consulting services valued at more than US$ 100,000 for firms, and US$50,000 for
individuals, will be presented with full documentation (in English) for disbursement
-25 -



Annex 7: Documents In the Project File*
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RY-Higher Education
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. A Project Proposal for the Higher Education Strategy in Yemen, MHESR
2. General Framework of the Second Five-Year Plan for Social & Economic Development in the Republic of
Yemen (2001-2005), MOPD
3. General Program of the Govemment presented to the House of Representatives
4. Higher Education & Labor Market, MOPD/UNDP
5. Ministry of Planning & Development's Remarks on the Draft Study of the Future of Higher Education
6. Higher Education Project: Objectives, Issues and Policies, MHESR
7. Program of the Ministry of Higher Education & Scientific Research during the forthcoming two years
8. Executive Summary of the Final Results of the Field Survey to Study Yemeni Universities Male & Female
Graduates Condition & Aspiration
9. The University System Education in Yemen: Issues, Policies & Executive Measures
10. Universities Law
11. Aden University: Regulations and Bylaw - Administrative Bylaw
12. Aden University: Regulations and Bylaw - Academic Bylaw
13. Statistic Book for the 25 Years for Aden University
14. Guide of Aden University (2000-2001)
15. Joumal of Social Sciences and Humanities
16. University of Aden Journal of Natural & Applied Sciences
17. Al-Yaman Joumal
B. Bank Staff Assessments
21. Technical Note on the Development of a Small Grants Program to Support Teaching and Research,
February 2002 22. Technical Note on the Modernization of University Libraries, February 2002
23. Technical Note on the establishment of a Global Distance Learning Network Center, February 2002
24. Technical Note on Institutional Self Assessment, February 2002
C. Other
*Including electronic files
-26 -



Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RY-Higher Education
02-May-2002
Diference between expected
and actual
Oduginal Amount in USS Millions                          disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                        Cancel.   Undisb       Orig  Frm Revd
P043254       2002 RY-HEALTH REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT (HRSP)         0 00     27.53                          0 00    27.72       0 00     0.00
P070092       2002 TAIZ MUNICIPAL DEVEL & FLOOD PROTECTION         000      45.20                          000     44.36       111      000
P062714       2001 RY - IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT                     0.0o     21.30                         0.00      19 44      2 66     000
P043255       2001 BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT               0 00     56.00                          0 00    4949       -1 74     000
P070391       2001 RURAL ACCESS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                0 00     45 00                         0.00     44 39       7 71     0 00
P005906       2001 RY-RURAL WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION              0 00     20 00                          0 00     18 85      2.67     0 00
P050706       2000 RY-CIVIL SERVICE MODERN                         0.00     30 00                          0 00     2660       9 83     0 00
P050483       2000 RY-CHILD DEVELOPMENT                            0 00     2890                           0 00     22 92      1.21     0 00
P068830       2000 RY-Second Social Fund for Developnent           0.00     75 00                          0 00     53 15     26 08     0 00
P057915       1999 RY-LEGAL&JUDICIALDEV                            000       250                           0.00      1.20      142       000
P060132       1999 RY-PUBUC WORKS II                               000      5000                           000      1387      1067       515
P005907       1999 RY-SANAA WSISANITATION                          0.00     25.00                          0.00     622        4.04     0 00
P050530       1999 RY-SANAA EMERG POWER                            000      54.00                          0 00     2982      27.73      8 41
P039171       1998 SEEDS&AG SERVICES                               0.00     12.50                          0.00      344       250       000
P005902       1998 RY-S GOV AGRI PRIVATIZA                         0.00     24.70                          401      1125      1094       0 00
P041199       1997 SOCIAL FUND DEVPT                               000      30.00                          000       0.06     -587       000
P005912       1996 VOC. TRAINING                                   0 0o     24.30                          0.00      3 72      618       2 57
P041267       1996 RY-TRANSPORT REHABILITATION                     0 00     37.00                          0.00      4 31      9.00      8 85
P005911       1994 EDUCATION SECTOR                                000      3300                           0.00     1344      1546       108
Total:       000      641 93                         4.01     394.25    131 58     2605
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval              Company                               Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic     Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic
1999                     ACSM                                  12.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       8.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998                     Radfan                                 2.85      0.00       0.00      0.00       2.85      0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:               14.85       0.00             0.00       0.00      10.85      0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                   Loan       Equity        Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                  0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
- 27-



Annex 9: Country at a Glance
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RY-Higher Education
U. East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North      Low-
Yemen      Africa   Income      Development diamond
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                       17 5       296     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     370     2,040       420
GNI (Atlas method. USS billions)                       6.6       602     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                         2 8       20        1.9
Labor force ()                                         2 9       2 8       2 4     GNI                              Gross
per~                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban Population (% of total population)                25        59        32
Ufe expectancy at birth (vears)                         56        68        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                79        44        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              46                               Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)    69        89        76
Illiteracy ( ofpopulatIon age 15+)                      54        35        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   70        95        96                  Yeman Rep.
Male                                                 100       102       102                  Low-income group
Female                                                40        88        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999     2000
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                              .      87        73        85
Gross domestic InvestmenUGDP                          14 6      24 6      19 2
Exports of goods and services/GDP                     14.3      36 3      50 S                     Trade
Gross domestic savinga/GDP                             8.8       18 2     282
Gross national savings/GOP                      .     21 4      26 1      32 3
Current account balance/GDP                    ..      8 5      10.6      24 2      Domestic                    Investment
Interest pavments/GDP                                  0 3       0 7       0 9      sas
Total debUGDP                                         72 7      63 4      70 3      si
Total debt service/exports                             0 0        4.0       3 8
Present value of debUGDP                                        48.8
Present value of debt/exports                                   89.9
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000    2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   ..      58       3.7        51       45              -Yemen       Rep.
GDP per capita                         .      2 3      1.0        24        1 6                - Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         .      168      36 4      46 2        5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000     Growth of Investment end GDP I%)
(5 of GDP)                                                                         40.
Agriculture                                           24 2       161       153
Industry                                              268       42 8      46.2     20 -
Manufacturing                                         9 3       8.2       7 5
Services                                              49.0       41 1      38.4
Private consumpUon                                    73 8      68.0       57 8    -20
General government consumption                  .     17.5       13 8      14            I           _  GD     - -P
imports of goods and services                         20 1      42 7      41 5
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                             51         0.2       37      100.
Industrv                                        .      7 9        4.8       70
Manufacturina                                         4.4       07        61         i 
Services                                               51         48        4.7
Private consumption                                    2 6       -1 9     -17 4                                   99   
General govemment consumpDon                           1.8       -7 8      -0.8    -50
Gross domestic Investment                              9 6       -9.8      13 2             -     Exparts       imports
Imports of goods and services                          7 7        3.8       21
Note. 2000 date are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the countrv (in bold) compared with Its income-group average If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 28 -



Yemen, Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflaton (%)
Domestic p,lces
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                8.0      8       6-
Implieit GDP deflator                                         28.6     159      40
Govemment fRnance                                                               20
(% of GDP, Includes curent grants)                    o                                 - t  z
Current revenue                              ..     18.9      28.8     42.4    -20      9s   95    97
Current budget balance                       ..     -3.1       S.2     14.6            -    GDP deflator     CPI
Overall surplus/defidct                             -8.5       0 1      7.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990       1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..    1,384     2,478    4,094     s,000
Crude oil (government share)                ..     515       993     1.969
Crude oil (company share)                    .     688      1,138    1.695    4,000
Manufactures                                 .       4        60       38     3,000
Total Imports (cU)                                 1,487     2.121    2,484     2.000
Food                                               617       872      984
Fuel and energy                                    129       158      270      oo000
CapItal goods                                      234       422      470        o0
94   90  99    97  985  9    00
Export price index (1995-100)                 ..    127        102      149
lmpottprlceIndex(1995s100)                           89        82        82                aExports     tImports
Terms oftrde (1995=100)                      ..      143       125      183
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mIllions)                             1980    1990      1999      2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..   1,490     2,662    4.305      o .
Imports of goods and services                ..    2,170     2.839    3,150
Resoumoe balance                              .     680       -178    1,155     20 -
Net Income                                    ..    372       -477     -514
Net current transfms                          .    1,790     1,423    1,422     10                           _    l
Current account balance                       .     739        769    2,063      o 0            _
Financing Rems (net)                          .     -758    -1,176   -3,488         94   95   go    z        s    00
Changes In net reserves                       ..      20       408    1,425     1o0
Memo:
Reserves Induding gold (USS milions)         ..     474      1,488    2,915
Conversion rate (DEC, local1US)             4.6     14.5     155 8    161.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                  Compositon of 2000 debt (Uss mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,684   6,352     4.610    6,000
IBRD                                        0       0         0         0                G 739
IDA                                       137     602      1,216    1,216                          _   s:1210
F III
Total debtservice                            73        0       157      221
IBRD                                        0        0        0         0
IDA                                         1       5        20        23                                   c 317
Compositon of net resource flows
Offidcal grants                           368       0         0         0
Officlal credItors                        478      65        148       26
Prlvate creditors                          63      161        0         0                              .,D 834
Foreign direct Investment                  34       0         0         0          E 2.783
Porifollo equity                            0       0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                62       0        138      231     A - IBlD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              28      27        173       65     B - IDA  D - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        0       2         12       14     C - IMF                   G - Short-terrm
Net flows                                  28      25        161       51
Interest payments                           1       3         8         9
Net transfers                              27      22        153       42
MNSED                                                                                                           10/9101
-29 -






'StH   f   - S  ,eD   /.  Wr   /
~ 0
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K~~~~ I | Z 
r S i N ~~f  0,X/ ( 
3_  E  0
- - - - - - - -  -l 
(      I~~~~~~~~~a
25 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          - > c 
  \  CL-             (if
-  0~~~~~~C









IMAGING
Report No.:         24245  YEM
Type:     PAD



