Report No. PID10868
Project Name             Yemen, Republic of-Higher Education (@)
Project
Region                   Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                   Tertiary Education
Project ID               YEPE76183
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION &
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
Address: Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: Dr. Yahya Al Shuaibi,
Minister of Higher Education and
Scientific Research
Tel: 967 1 213444
Fax: 967 1 213444
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        April 15, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      April 5, 2002
Bank Approval Date       May 28, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Republic of Yemen has a land area of approximately 555,000 sq.km and
population of approximately 18 million of which about 75t live in rural
areas. The population growth rate is 3.3w, according to 1994 census.
More than 50t of the population are under 15 years of age.The education
and training system in Yemen is, to a large extent, similar to that found
elsewhere in the Region. It comprises basic education for nine years,
secondary education for three years and a range of tertiary or higher
education programs.Higher education consists of formal university
education (4-6 years), technical training (2-3 years), vocational training
(2-5 years), teachers' institutes (2 years) in addition to the recently
established community colleges (2 years). Post secondary expansion has
been dramatic since the early 1990s: there are currently seven public
universities in Yemen and eight private ones, with approximately 130
faculties in total. Increases in enrollment have occurred with little
effort to link demand for skills in the labor force to curricula and
training.  Expansion in enrollments (16w per annum since 1990) has taken
place largely in the social sciences and arts with 88t of students
enrolled in there disciplines. Such a trend is not sustainable.
Therefore, the Government has decided to undertake a major reorientation
and reform of the higher education system. A new ministry created in
April 2001 is leading the reform process.For the academic year 2001/2002,
showing it's political will in the HE reform, the Government of Yemen
(GOY) already took a decision regarding admission of student and a
uniform implementation of this policy across the Universities leading to a
reduction of  about 50t   of  the number of students admitted in faculties
compared to last year.



2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed Learning and Innovation Credit
(LIC) is to assist the Government of Yemen in preparing a higher education
reform strategy and to pilot initial phases of its implementation. If
successful, these initiatives would be scaled up to underpin a second,
medium-term phase of the reform which would likely require the support of
the donor community including the World Bank. The LIC responds to the
Government's request for help in developing capacity in the newly created
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MHESR) required to
implement major reforms aimed at strengthening post-secondary education.
The LIC would help the MHESR develop and test key measures (the basis for
broader reforms) designed to improve governance, financing and the quality
of instruction.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Overall expenditures on education in Yemen (7.7w of GDP) are high compared
to other countries in the Region and with others at comparable levels of
GDP. However, there is concern that fiscal support for Yemen's highest
human development priority, basic education, is declining because of
rising investments in technical and higher education (technical training
increased from 32 to 46t of public education expenditures and higher
education's share has doubled in the past five years to 35%-). This raises
two equity concerns: (i) decreased investment in improving access at the
basic education level whose 65%- GER is among the lowest in the world; and
(ii) the unit cost of public university attendance is equal to 100%- of GDP
per capita, and fully subsidized, benefits the elite on a disproportionate
basis. The Bank's involvement would help to redefine the education sector
budget allocation towards more effective support for the country's primary
objective which is achieving the goal of universal basic education. In
addition, the LIC would contribute to raise the productivity of Yemen
skilled human resources as part of the Bank strategy to improve the
management of the economy.
4. Description
1. Governance.
This component would support Government in developing a strategy and
medium term development plan for the sector and a legislative and
institutional framework promoting improved governance and management.
Specific activities include: (i) the participative development of a
national strategy for the reform of Higher Education and the preparation
of a medium term investment program; (ii) capacity building in the MHESR;
and (iii) leadership and technical training to prepare the two
universities for the assumption of substantial, delegated managerial
responsibility and accountability.
2. Finance.
This component would support the process of financial delegation to the
two universities through: the redesign of budget structures and
procedures to facilitate flexible allocation of resources and efficient
expenditure, and through program budgets with contractual obligations in
terms of objectives and performance indicators. It would also assist in
the development of an equitable funding mechanism for universities,
- 2 -



promoting competition and the achievement of priority objectives such as
the participation of girls and greater diversification of income through
tailored, on demand courses and services. Finally, it would assist in the
acquisition and adaptation, including related training, of an integrated
MIS, permitting the timely tracking of financial transactions as well as
providing other key institutional management information, serving the
MHESR and the two pilot universities.
3. Quality.
This component would help improve learning and upgrade opportunities for
students and faculty in selected faculties (medicine, education, commerce)
by piloting strategic initiatives with regard to: (i) the evaluation,
modernization and piloting of programs, building on renewal efforts
already under way, together with the upgrading of the knowledge and
teaching skills of the faculty; (ii) in support of program renewal, the
design, development, and piloting of an ICT network linking the central
and faculty libraries, facilitating faculty and student exchanges via an
intranet and providing access to the resources of the Internet; (iii)
assistance to the two pilot universities in initiating a process of self
evaluation and improvement and the development of agreed standards which
could be applied by other public sector universities, as a basis for
future accreditation; and (iv) internal assessment of a selected private
institution and the design and piloting of a trial accreditation, to
prepare for the early extension of accreditation to Yemen's private
universities, based on rigorous and transparent quality standards.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER         $0.30
IBRD
IDA             $5.00
Total Project
Cost             $5.30
6. Implementation
The MHESR will have overall responsibility for implementing the LIC. To
that end, a steering committee (SC) responsible for oversight and policy
matters has been established, together with a Coordination and Management
Team (CMT) in the MHESR which will be responsibile for the management of
the Credit including procurement, disbursements, and the special account;
the preparation of semi-annual progress reports (technical, financial and
procurement) for the review and approval of the SC and IDA and annual
audits.
7. Sustainability
Institutional Sustainability: MHESR is a new Department, while
Universities are well established institutions. Sustaining the changes in
management and institutional cultures that the Project support might be an
issue. To promote institutional sustainability, the Project is supporting
new merit-based rules for governing the system.Financial sustainability:
The objective is to ensure financial and governance autonomy for the
Universities. The Project aims to contribute to the long-term fiscal
sustainability of Yemen's education system through the initiation of
higher education reform. Project impact sustainability: The LIC seeks to
-3 -



pilot test activities to improve the institutional and learning
environment in post secondary institutions. If they prove to be
effective, these change will be adopted system-wide. The new partnership
with the private sector and the new management system (including the cost
recovery mechanism) are expected to generate additional resources to
sustain learning and innovation in HE institutions.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This is the first operation in the sector financed by IDA in the Country.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   There is no environmental risk since this credit
will not finance civil works.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ousmane Diagana
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 967-1-413 708/710 (Yemen)
Fax: 967-1-413 709 (Yemen)
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 10, 2002.
-4-



