Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
*.eporb No.12561
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2465-PE)
NOVEMBER 30, 1993
M I CRO  3ARFi 1-4 iv S
Repor-t Nou            1
Type. PCDR
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used iv recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Baok autborization.



Currency Unit
US$                           Intis (1984 - 1987)
US$                     -    4.40 Intis (1984)
US$                     -    9.38 Intis (1985, January to June)
US$                           1 14.0 Intis (1985, July to December)
US$                           14.0 Intis (1986)
US$                     =    20.0 Intis (1987)
WEIGHTS AND MEAS-URES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CORDES                  Corporaci6n Departamental de Desarrollo
Departmental Development Corporation
DIEP                    Direcci6n de la Educaci6n Prunaria
Directorate of Pnmary Education
ESEP                    Escuela Superior de Educacidn Profesional
vocationally oriented secondary schools
GTZ                     Deutsche  Gesellschaft far  Technische
Zusammenarbeit
German Technical Cooperation Agency
INIDE                   Instituto Nacional de Investigaci6n y Desarrollo de
la Educaci6n
National Institute for Educational Research and
Development
INIED                   Instituto de Ifraestructura Educativa
Institute for Educational Infrastructure
ME                      Ministenlo de Educaci6n
Ministry of Education
MEF                     Ministerio de Economia y flnanzas
Ministry of Economy and Finance



FOR OFMCLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVI, DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Peru
Primary Education Project (Ln. 2465-PE'
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Peru - Primary Education
Project (Ln. 2465-PE) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The Loan became effective in June 1985; less than two years later, in May
1987, the Bank suspended disbursements to Peru. By that date, fewer than 15 percent of
classroom construction targets and under 4 percent of the planned textbook production
had been realized. The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory even though another 25
percent of classroom construction and slightly over 25 percent of textbook production
targets were realized with alternative financing in the years 1987-91.
Institution building under the project was negligible, and the PCR deems
that 'project benefits were surely not sustained."
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the petformance of their official
duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PERU                       FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECr (LOAN 2465-PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE  .............................. .... i
EVALUAMTONSUMMARY ............................ ii
PART I: Project Review from Bank's Perspective
1. Project Identity ........................... 1
2. Background ............                ..............   1
3. Project Objectives and Description .........      ..........  2
4. Project Design and Organization  ........... .........  3
5. Project Implementation ..........................  5
6. ProjectResults .............7...............                     7
7. Project Sustainability  ..........................   8
8. Bank Performance ..........................                      8
9. Borrower Performance  ..........................  9
10. Project4elationship ............................  9
11. Consulting Services ..........................   10
12. Project Documentation and Data ........... ......... 10
13. Lessons Leaned ........................... 10
PART II: Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
1. Introduction       ........................    12
2. Sectoal Development Objectives .......... ........ 12
3. Design and Organization oftheProject .....        ......... 13
4. Project Execution  ...........        ................ 14
5. Factors Which Affected Project Execution  ....     ........ 14
PART m: Statistical Information
1. Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements  ....     .... 17
2. Planned and Actual Allocation of Bank Financing ....    .... 18
3. StaffInputs  .    .............................. 19
4. UseofBankMissions ......................... 20
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlY in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Tables
1. Related Bank Loans .......... ........... 21
2. Project Tmetable .......... ........... 22
3. Loan Disbursements ..................... 23
4. ProjectImplementation ..................... 24
5. Project Costs and Financing ..................... 25
A. Project Costs .......       .............. 25
B. ProjectFinancing ...........       .......... 25
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits .......... ........... 26
B. Economic Impact ...........        .......... n/a
C. FinancialImpact ......................            n/a
D. Studies ......................                    27
7. Status of Key Covenants . ..................... 28
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs . ..................... 29
B. Nissions ......................                   30
C. Costs ..................... n/a



- i -
PERUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2465-PE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Primary Educafton
Project in Peru, for which loan 2465-PE in the amount of US$27.0 million was
approved on July 10, 1984. The loan became effective on June 10, 1985, and
disbursements were suspended in May 1987. When the loan was closed on
August 14, 1991 (retroactive to May 1, 1991), disbursements had not resumed.
By loan closing, US$3.01 million was disbursed and the undisbursed balance of
US$23.99 million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Human Resources Division of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Country Department I (Preface, Evaluation
Summary and Parts I and IlI), and by the Ministry of Education of Peru (Part
II).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Loan Agreement; supervision reports; annual audit reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda
and interviews with representatives of the Bank and the Ministry of Education
of Peru who had central roles in the preparation and implementation of the
project.



- lit -
PROJECT OMPLETIN RQRt
PRIMARY EDUCATION PEO3ECT ILOAN 2465-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   The thre main objectives of the project were to: (a) provide sufficient
and appropriate schools in rural and urban areas of 10 departments; (b) improve
the efficiency and quality of primary schooling; and (c) support the
administrative and project management capacity of the Ministry of Education.
These objectives were to be achieved by providing 1,250 classrooms in 150
schools, training 2,100 educators, producing 3 million textbooks, developing
new curricula, supporting bilingual education and building the capacity of two
units in the Ministry of Education. Since only a small proportion of activities
were carried out, the project contributed minimally to the achievement of these
objectives.
Implementation Experience
2.    The Loan Agreement for this project was signed on February 15, 1985,
and the loan became effective on June 10, 1985. It was closed on August 14,
1991, retroactive to May 1, 1991, by which timne US$3.01 million had been
disbursed. The undisbursed balance of US$23.99 million was cancelled. The
Belaunde Government met conditions for effectiveness in June 1985, one month
before the end of its term. The new government of Alan Garcia implemented
the project for two years. In May 1987, the Bank suspended disbursements
when Peru fell into arrears and disbursements had not resumed when the loan
was closed in 1991. Of the US$3.01 million in Bank financing, 67% supported
civil works, 19% furniture and equipment, 9% textbook production and the
remaining 5% was allocated to consultants, studies and operating costs. The
planned allocation called for less emphasis on civil works (47%) and greater
emphasis on consultants and studies (17%). After Bank disbursements for the
project were suspended, some project activities continued exclusively with
Government support, albeit with serious limitations.
RIeults
3.   During the two year period of Bank financing for the project, 180 urban
school classrooms were built and 14 of the proposed 15 textbooks were
designed. The project also produced about 110,000 textbooks, or 4% of the
target By financing bilingual education activities developed by the Government



- iv -
with the assistance of GTZ, the project also p:-oduced 770,000 textbooks for
non-Spanish speaking children, about 3 times the expected number. In the four
years from 1987 to 1991 following suspension of Bank disbursements, the
project continued to build new schools. It constructed an additional 313 urban
school classrooms and supported the development of a special curriculum and
a pilot training program for multigrade schools.
Sustainability
4.    The impact of the project was limited to expanding primary school
infrastructure and developing architectural designs for school buildings. Since
project implementation was so severely affected by the unfavorable political,
economic and social context, project benefits were surely not sustained.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.    The experience of this project provides several useful lessons for the
Bank and the Borrower on steps which might be taken to avoid some of the
problems which this project encountered.
For the Bank:
a     develop special feasibility criteria for crisis situations.
*     ensure adequate financial and administrative measures for good
management.
*     promote continuity of counterpart teams between preparation and
implementation.
e     require plans for implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
o     only employ a project management model with several participating
institutions when leadership is soiid and when the organizational
environment fosters smooth horizontal coordination, dialogue and
autonomy in decisionmaking.
o     hold a project launch workshop to review  Bank guidelines and
procedures for disbursements, bidding, special accounts and management
of technical assistance.
*     include provisions for a mid-term review.
For the Borrower:
o    prepare a detailed implementation plan with supervision and monitoring
arrangements and built in procedures for making mid-term corrections.
e     undertake feasibility studies prior to decentralizing management to ensure
that local capacity is adequate to support project implementation.
0     ensure that educational investment priorities have the necessary political
and financial backing.
a     htiild on imneqe,.q and correct errors of earlier Droiects.



- v -
*    build on successes and correct errors of earlier projects.
*    place high priority on allocating adequate and appropriate human and
financial resources to project prepartion to avoid costly delays and weak
proposals which cannot be implemented
*    initiate discussions with the World Bank and other lending partners of
modifications to project design that may be necessary following changes
in the political/economic context.



PMR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECt
(LOAN 2465-PE)
PART I: Project Review from Bank's Perspective
I    Project Identity
Name:             Primary Education Project
Loan Number:      2465-PE
RVP Unit:         LA1HR
Country:          Peru
Sector.           Education
Subsector:        Primary Education
2     Background
2.1         Sector development objectives:  Because the identification,
preparation, appraisal and execution of this project spanned three national
govemment five-year terms, sectoral development objectives shifted over the
history of the project. When the Bank and the Government initiated discussions
in 1978 about an education project to follow the FY74 First Education Project
(Ln. 949-PE), the national government was in the midst of implementing a
major educational reform program. This program, introduced in 1972, sought
to strengthen education as a long term strategic means of promoting human
resource deFvelopment and social and economic equity by: (a) ensuring nine
years of basic education for all, including education for all children in their
native language in the early grades; (b) providing comprehensive vocationally
oriented secondary education through Escuelas Superior.es de Educaci6n
Profesional (ESEP); and (c) offering post-secondary university education and
further graduate studies. With the arrival of a civilian government in 1980, the
emphasis in education was on returning to the educational system in place prior
to 1972, which offered six years of primary education, followed by five years
of secondary education and university studies. The "Five Years For Education"
(1981 - 1985) plan established policies and action plans to: (a) develop and
expand primary education (grades 1 through 6) in poor urban and rural areas;
(b) improve the quality and efficiency of primary education through teacher
training, curriculum development, establishment of an evaluation unit in the
Ministry of Education to measure learning outcomes, and production and
distribution of textbooks; (c) streamline the Ministry's administrative structure



and transfer greater responsibilities to regional offices; and (d) increase the
coverage of pre-school through the expansion of facilities. The 1985-1990
national government which executed the project placed a new emphasis on
redressing persistent neglect in the Trapecio Andino, the Andean region in which
most inhabitants were poor and education levels low. The new administration's
policy of "Education for Life" emphasized: (a) expanding pre-school education
and universalizing primary education; (b) placing high priority on rural and
marginal ur'^ni areas, border areas and those with non-Spanish speaking
populations; (c) decentralizing and de-bureaucratizing education administration
while promoting community participation; and (d) promoting educational
infrastructure, through local management of construction investments.
2.2         Policy context: The civilian government in power from 1980 on
stressed the development of the social sectors and the improvement in
production and incomes for low-income urban and rural groups. In education,
the 1980 national government approved a law reversing the 1972 educational
reforms. Initially this led to two parallel educational structures, each with its
own curriculum and supervision system, with limited decision making at the
central level. Throughout this project's life, major issues in education continued
to be: (a) the small percentage of children who completed primary school,
caused by high absenteeism from school, late age of entry, limited physical
infrastructure, problems of language, inadequate adaptation of teaching systems
and low income; (b) the poor quality of teaching, caused by a high number of
unqualified teachers, extremely limited teaching, materials, and deficient school
administration; and (c) financial and organizational problems of the sector.
2.3         Linkages between project, sector and macro policy objectives:
The Bank and the Ministry of Education were informed about the
macroeconomic development policy of the government.  During project
preparation, other projects were executed in the education sector or related
areas, including the FY74 First Education Project (Loan 949-PE), the FY82
Higher Agricultural Education Project (Loan 2208-PE) and the FY82 Public
.Fector Management Project (Loan 2204-PE) (see Table 1).
3    Project Objectives and Description
3.1         Project objectives: The project's three objectives were to: (a)
provide sufficient and appropriate schools in 10 departments of the country, in
both rural and urban areas; (b) improve the efficiency and quality of primary
schooling; and (c) support the administrative and project management capacity
of the Ministry of Education.
3.2         Components: The project had eight components designed to
accomplish these three objectives.  The first was a school construction
component to provide 1,250 classrooms in a total of 150 schools, 90 urban and
60 rural. The second was a training component to provide training for 21,000
educational agents (1000 regional and local supervisors; 2500 school principals
and 17,500 teachers) in both administrative management and the use of texts and



-3-
curriculum for multigrade schools. The third was a textbook component to
provide textbooks and educational materials for 300,000 children through the
production of 3 million textbooks. The fourth was a multigrade school
component to develop, pilot test and implement on a Pilot basis a cufriculum for
multigrade schools. The fifth was a bilingual education component tu support
an ongoing GTZ-led bilingual education project in Puno executed by INIDE, the
lsWtuto Nacional de Investigacidn y Desarrollo de la Educacidn (National
Institute for Educational Research and Development). The sixth was an
institutional strengthening component to support the development of a training
and textbook unit within INIDE. The seventh was institutional strengthening of
INIED, the Instiuto Nacional de Infraesmructura Educadva (National Institute
for Educational Infrastructure) by providing training and technical assistance in
infrastructure planning, administration and project supervision capacity. The
eighth was a studies component to support improvements in the budgeting
process of the Ministry of Education.
4     Prject Design and Organization
4.1         Conceptual foundation: Shifts in educational policy influenced
the project design. Early missions recommended that the Bank prepare a second
education project for 1979 Board presentation which would include grades 7
through 9 (the last years of basic education under the 1972 educational reforms)
and grades 10 through 13 (secondary vocational taining under the reform
program). The project was to support fonnal and non-formal education and
vocational training. Through support for INIDE, the National Institute for
Educational Research and Development, it was to support improvement in the
quality of curriculum development, staff and teacher training, educational
materials production, and the Ministry of Education's management and planning
capabilities.
4.2         By 1978, Bank discussions with the Ministry suggested that both
institutions had begun to think that the project design should include the building
and equipping of infrastructure likely to be unfinished under the First Education
Project (Loan 949-PE); expansion and consolidation of basic education through
the provision of new facilities; expansion of the grade 10-13 ESEP program
through expanded infrastructure, and technical assistance to upgrade teacher
skldls.
4.3         A 1981 project identification mission worldng with the new 1980
national government first set fo.h the basic design which was later prepared,
appraised and executed. This called for: (a) providing new primary school
facilities and upgrading existing ones in rural and low-income urban areas; (b)
enhancing community participation; (c) introducing double shifts to expand
enrollment; (d) strengthening evaluation and education planning capabilities of
the Ministry of Education; and (e) improving teacher training, information flows
and the provision and distribution of textbooks.



- 4 -
4.4         The identification of key barriers to the system's efficiency led
to a design which emphasized infrastructure, textbook production, curriculum
development and strengthening of the administrative capacity, the basic elements
influencing teaching and learning. The project design included the innovative
integration of management, human resource development, design and production
of appropriate educational materials, and solutions to the problems of rural
schools (largely multigrade and bilingual).
4.5         In broad terms, the preparation of this project spanned from 1977
through 1985, while disbursements were made between 1985 and 1987. This
extended period for preparation led to considerable refinement and maturation
of project concepts and strategies prior to effectiveness. The conceptual
framework for the project was shared and understood by both the Ministry of
5ducation and the Bank. The Bank's support for the 1980 shift back to the pre-
1972 educational system is noteworthy since the First Education Project (949-
PE) was designed specifically to support implementation of the 1972 reforms.
In a sense, this project supported the reversal of these reforms. Project records
suggest agreement between the Bank and the Government on this strategy.
4.6         A number of obstacles delayed project preparation.  Initial
discussion about a second education project began in 1977. When the
Government formally contacted the Bank in 1978 to express interest in a second
project, the Bank indicated that it would first need to assess the pace of
implementation of the 1972 reforms and the execution of the FY74 First
Education Project (949-PE). The Bank decided to send an identification mission
in April 1980, yet shifted the timing to December 1980 because of national
elections scheduled for April.  The Bank expressed concern over poor
implementation of the First Education Project, yet by mid-1981 both the Bank
and the Govemment were operating on a rapid project processing schedule
which called for January 1982 appraisal. Government failure to assign a
competent team quickly meant that by the July 1982 appraisal mission, project
preparation was not complete. In 1983, the Government decided to postpone
the project in order to keep public sector expenditures down as part of its
austerity program. This led to the postponement of Board presentation until
1984. The Belaunde Government met conditions for effectiveness in June 1985,
one month before the end of its term. The new government of Alan Garcia
implemented the project for two years before the Bank suspended disbursements
on all projects in Peru because of the serious problem with arears.
4.7         Definition of agency roles and responsibilities: The project
called for cooperation between two agencies within the Ministry of Education,
INIED, the National Institute for Educational Infrastructure, and INIDE, the
National Institute for Educational Research and Development. INIDE was
responsible for introducing quality improvement programs and activities such as
curriculum development, teacher and staff training, educational materials
production, and management and planning capability building. Bank experience
with the First Education Project indicated that agencies within the education
sector were reluctant and highly bureaucratic in their interaction with one
another. Staff from the First Education Project (Ln. 949-PE) did not participate



- 5 -
in the preparation of this project.  The primacy of INIED in project
implementation, despite Bank encouragement of a Coordinating Committee, led
to a central focus on infrastructure and limited achievement on complementary
activities.
4.8         The project was not successful in achieving its objectives. One
of the major reasons was the suspension of disbursements after two years of
implementation. Two project design and organization factors which contributed
to this lack of success were the extended period for preparation and the
assignment of major responsibility to an agency that focused only on
infrastructure at the expense of other components. The development of the
project would have benefitted from more attention to the problems which
plagued the First Education Project (Ln. 949-PE). In its first five years of
execution, that project disbursed only US$6 million of a US$24 million loan.
Only after 1979, when a Bank team worked with Government representatives
to reduce the scope, establish a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures did this earlier project succeed in disbursing US$16.5 million more
through 1982. The problems which plagued the earlier project included lack of
coordination among govemment agencies, changes in the leadership of the
project implementing unit, and the weak administrative capacity of the Ministry
of Education.
5     Project Implementaion
5.1         Variancesbetweenplannedandactualproject implementation:
The major variance between planned and actual implementation resulted irom
the suspension of all Bank disbursements for Peru in May 1987, two years after
project effectiveness. Some activities continued with Government support, albeit
with serious limitations because the Government was unsure if expenditures
would later be reimbursed by the Bank. From its inception, the project
experienced delays and financial, administrative and technical problems.
Despite ambitious targets, achievement was minimal.   Delays in the
establishment of the Special Account led INIED to restrict expenditure
authorizations to other participating agencies, leading to delays in execution.
Economic management was weak. Project managers did not budget with
realistic inflation projections, which led to serious gaps between budgets and
implementation requirements.
5.2         Decisions by executing agencies were not coordinated. INIED
did not coordinate with other agencies well in either administrative or technical
matters. Individual components were not well coordinated; links among teams
managing different components were limited to presenting requirements for
financing and attending sporadic meetings called by the Coordination Group or
organized on the arrival of Bank missions. Participating institutions did not
prepare joint annual implementation plans or coordinate their schedules. Thus,
in sites where infrastructure was built, furniture, textbooks, trained teachers and
principals were not necessarily available. Furthermore, most construction was
concentrated in urban areas, with the idea of later expansion into rural areas.



- 6 -
5.3         Relations between INIED and the Ministry of Economy and
Finance were strained because INIED did not meet MEF reporting schedules
and requirements. The weakness in reporting was even more pronounced after
1987 when INIED lost its accounting staff.
5.4         Risk identification and avoidance:  Risks were correctly
identified as: possible delays in the preparation of bidding documents,
difficulties in coordination between two independent agencies (INIED and
INIDE) and difficulty securing adequate counterpart funding. The solution
proposed to minimize these risks was the formation of a Coordination Group,
with specific responsibilities and representation from all participating agencies.
In practice, this proved to be inadequate to overcome risks.
5.5         Factors affecting project implementation: The lengthy period
between initial conceptualization and actual implementation led to unforeseen
factors affecting implementation. First, the severe fiscal situation which led the
Government to postpone consideration of the project in 1983 could not have
been foreseen when initial discussions began in 1977. Second, the new focus
of educational investments which emerged with the afival of the 1985 national
government toward the Trapecio Andino could not have been foreseen at the
design stage.
5.6         By using project funds to support ongoing GTZ activities in
bilingual education, the production of textbooks and the expansion of this
component were ensured. The project emphasis on addressing management at
all levels and components was also well founded. Nonetheless, the preparation
and supervision missions did not include specialists in educational management,
nor was technical assistance provided. The role of DIEP, the DirecciOn de la
Educacidn Primaria (the Directorate for Primary Education) in the project was
insignificant in contrast to the roles of INIED and INIDE. This is particularly
apparent in training and curriculum development, in which both INIDE and
DEEP should have worked in coordination.
5.7         Peru's decision to continue to support the project financially after
the suspension of Bank disbursements permitted further construction to be
undertaken and reflected a commitment to achieving some project targets. The
emphasis of the project on school construction after suspension of Bank
disbursements suggests that the Government did not consider the other project
components as important to the success of primary education as the Bank did.
The project spent US$11.7 million, 26% of the planned amount, of which the
Bank provided US$3.01 million, 11I% of the planned level and the Government
provided US$8.6 million, or 48% of its total financial commitment. Frequent
changes in project management jeopardized project continuity. The project had
three Executive Coordinators: the first worked for one month, the second for
two years and the third began six months after the Bank's suspension of
disbursements.



-7 -
6     Project Results
6.1         Project achievements: With Bank financing through May 1987,
the project built 180 classrooms in urban schools. Rural school construction
was not undertaken, although plans were prepared for rural multigrade schools.
Improvements in school efficiency and quality were below target levels from the
beginning. Fourteen of 15 proposed school textbooks were designed, yet only
110,759 were produced, which was 4% of the target. This low achievement is
particularly surprising since the project procured machinery for book production
and expanded the physical space of the Textbook Production Unit. A small
number of Spanish-spealdng students received additional textbooks through the
project, but not the full range which the project proposed to deliver. One of the
project's achievements which surpassed planned levels was the production of
textbooks for non-Spanish speaking children. Here achievement was three times
the target level (707,000 distributed compared to 220,000 planned). In this
component, the efforts of the bilingual education project supported by GTZ were
of vital importance. The project trained 600 teachers in bilingual education and
thereby contributed to the expansion of bilingual education.
6.2         From June 1987 through May 1991, the project constructed an
additional 313 classrooms for a total of 493 classrooms in 55 urban schools with
local financing. This represents 39% of the target with an investment of
US$8.5 million (US$1.8 million Bank financing). The project's emphasis on
urban areas meant that 61%  of school construction and 54%  of planned
classroom construction in urban areas were accomplished. Procurement of
furniture was low relative to the number of schools constructed, so that only
some of the schools built were fully equipped under the project. The project
provided 19,720 primary school places, or 39,440 school places assuming 100%
utilization in two shifts. After the suspension of Bank disbursements, the
project supported the development of a special curriculum and a pilot training
program for multigrade schools.
6.3         Human resource development was limited by the lack of
materials, which were to form the basis for training. Of the six proposed
studies, four were partially completed. The planned feasibility study on
bilingual education was partially completed and led to a comprehensive
diagnosis for curriculum development and teacher training. For the planned
study on school mapping, only the initial proposal and a few instruments for
data collection were developed. A study on the characteristics of the school
administrator and a situational analysis of multigrade schools were caried out
in Arequipa; the situational analysis led to the use of a multigrade curriculum
design. (See Table 1.) No achievement was made toward the objective of
improving and modernizing the administration of education.
6.4         This project was implemented under difficult circumstances, both
because of the crisis in Peru and because of the lack of Bank financing. The
project's impact was limited to expanding school construction, developing



- 8 -
architectural designs for school construction and expanding primary education
infrastructure.  The project's support for the bilingual education project
indirectly led to the creation in 1987 of a Directorate for Bilingual Education
within the Ministry of Education.
7     Project Sustainabilitv
7.1         The project was not sustainable. First, it was plagued from the
outset by instability such as: (a) the change of governments shortly after loan
signing, which led to a series of new counterpart authorities; (b) the economic
deterioration and great dissatisfaction of the education sector employees, which
led to frequent strikes; (c) the resignation of INIED technicians and
administrators who had played important roles within the project; (d) the
security situation in the country; and (e) frequent shifts in authorities, including
S changes of ministers over the project life.  Second, the fact that the
Government, when it began to finance the project from its own resources,
substantially changed its orientation, suggests that the design was unsustainable
from the outset.
8     Bank Performance
S.1         The Bank maintained a dialogue with the Borrower through
firequent missions and fluid communications, especially in the preparation phase.
The Bank fielded a total of 25 missions at intervals averaging about 5 months,
of which 12 were during the design phase. The Bank's other experience in the
country, including three other projects in the education sector, contributed to the
Bank's understanding of the educational, political and financial situation of the
country at that time. During project implementation, 11 missions were fielded
and the aide memoires note difficulties and delays from the beginning of the
project. The total staff time devoted to the project over its life was 227 staff
weeks, which demonstrates the continued interest the Bank had even after
suspension of disbursements. The professionals who participated in missions
were principaIly architects (15) and economists (19), with lesser participation
of general educators (11) and textbook specialists (4). This composition
contributed to the infrastructure bias of the project in implementation.
8.2         The  Bank  frequently  acknowledged  concern  over  the
administrative and coordination capacity of INIED. Nonetheless, the proposed
solution of forming a Coordination Group as a means to counteract this problem
had only limited impact. The Bank appraised the project carefully and indicated
at that time that project preparation was incomplete. Bank awareness of further
preparation needs led the Bank to assist the Government to identify financing for
further preparation work.
8.3         The Borrower indicated that despite the Bank's high level of
interest, supervision missions concentrated on administrative matters and did not
provide substantial technical support. The continuity of Bank personnel on



- 9 -
successive missions was considerable, but was not matched by continuity of
counterpart personnel. Even after the May 1987 suspension of disbursements,
the Bank maintained strong and positive contact with the project through
frequent mnissions of staff, who proposed alternatives to the Government for
reprogramming the project to achieve some project objectives.
9     Borrower Performance
9.1         Strengths and weaknesses:  National institutions tried to
collaborate closely with the Bank in project identification and preparation.
Despite great enthusiasm for the project, the Ministry failed to provide the high
level analytical skills necessary to ensure rapid preparation. The Ministry of
Education's commitment to improving primary education was not shared by the
Ministry of Finance, which did not allocate sufficient resources in a timely
manner for project preparation or implementation. The elements which would
ensure smooth project implementation (assignment of funds, selection of a
coordinator and constitution of a Coordinating Unit) required lengthy and
difficult processes. The project often faced delays in obtaining counterpart
funding, had three coordinators, and the Coordinating Unit did not meet
frequently enough to facilitate decisions.  The Ministry of Education's
experience with the First Education Project (949-PE) should have given this
project a stronger basis for identifying the risks which it would face in
implementation, since that project also suffered the same difflculties.
9.2         The Government continued its support to the project after the
suspension of Bank funds, although it funded infrastructure almost exclusively.
INIED gave the highest prionty to its own activities, and DIEP participated
minimally in the project.
9.3         This experience provides important lessons for the Govemment.
Educational priorities which form the basis for investments must be supported
by political and financial commitments. Preparation of new projects should
build on the successes of earlier projects in the same sector or correct the errors
which contributed to their weaknesses. Project preparation should be afforded
a high priority in the allocation of resources; failure to do so results in delays
and poor quality project proposals. These problems are costly in the long-run
for the Government in terms of slow disbursement and investments which have
little impact on development.
10    Project Relationship
10.1        Strengths and weaknesses of Bank-Borrower performance: The
relationship between the Bank and the Ministry of Education for this project was
consistently positive and based on mutual professional respect, despite the
difflculties each party experienced with the suspension of disbursements and
subsequent canceLlation of the project. In retrospect, the major frustration with
this relationship was that it did not lead to project achievement.



- 10-
10.2        Strengths and weaknesses of relationships with other parties:
Bank and Ministry of Education relationships with other parties were good--with
UNESCO which supported the sector analysis; with the OAS which was to
assume responsibility for managing technical assistance; with AID for financial
cooperation and with GTZ for support of bilingual education. One vital
relationship which was weak was between the Ministry of Education and the
Ministry of Finance.
11    Consulting Services
11.1        Technical assistance was not used in this project, although the 200
months of planned assistance were vital to strengthening the management
capability of the Ministry of Education. Project discussions with the OAS over
arrangements for technical assistance management were halted when Bank
disbursements were suspended.
12    Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1        The legal agreement signed on February 15, 1985, was drafted
appropriately and both parties agreed with its terms. No difficulties arose in
either its legal or operational interpretation. The SAR provided a useful
framework for understanding the context and the design of the project. The
Bank project files were well organized through 1987, when disbursements
against this loan were suspended. Project files in Peru were not accessible
because the relocation of the agency responsible for project implementation
coincided with PCR preparation.
13    Lessons Learned
13.1        The experience of this project confirms the need to rely on clear
feasibility criteria in crisis situations such as the one Peru faced. For example,
the project design should be very simple and based to the greatest extent
possible on ongoing activities rather than new activities which require extensive
or complex design work. The project should have a clear implementation
manual and a detailed implementation plan and schedule. The project should
be prepared in a participatory way so that activities are based on broad
consensus rather than the views of a small number of possibly transitory
officials. Project design should incorporate frequent implementation reviews.
In hyperinf9ationary settings, project management should include sophisticated
budget management capabilities.
13.2        It also confirms the priority of instituting adequate financial and
administrative measures for good management. It suggests the value of ensuring
continuity between officials responsible for project preparation and those
responsible for implementation. This experience suggests the need for careful



- 11 -
operational plans and for regularly scheduled monitoring and evaluation to
permit adjustments in implementation. This project experience highlights the
challenges inherent in having several participating institutions, even in the same
sector. It suggests that such a model will only work when leadership is very
solid and where the institutional framework is conducive to smooth horizontal
coordination and autonomy in decision-making.
13.3        The project also suggests the need to ensure Ministry of Finance
commitment to providing adequate counterpart funding. It demonstrates that
good Bank-Borrower relations must extend beyond the implementing agency and
ensure broad govemmental support.
13.4        This project suggests the value of holding a project launch
workshop, where Bank personnel can review with project implementing
agencies, Bank guidelines and procedures for disbursements, bidding, special
accounts and management of technical assistance. It also suggests the merits of
including a mid-term review to re-assess the appropriateness of project strategies
to achieve the objectives after several years of implementation experience.
13.5        Project preparation should include preparation of a detailed
implementation plan with supervision and monitoring arrangements and built in
procedures for making mid-term corrections.
13.6        While administrative decentralization can facilitate action, it
should be based on prior feasibility studies which assess capacity and
recommend any steps necessary to support project implementation.



PER-U
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2465-PE)
PART I}: Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
1    Intoducion
1.1         The Ministry of Education of Peru is in agreement with the
review which the World Bank presents in Part I, given that the bulk of the
information on which it is based is shared by both parties. For this reason, and
in order not to repeat the Bank's findings, this chapter provides some
information which Part I omits and focuses on the lessons which can be drawn
from this project experience, so that in the future the weaknesses which this
project faced can be corrected.
2     Sectoral Development Objectives
2.1        In Part I of this Project Completion Report, the World Bank did
not present a summary of the policies of the Government of Peru which took
power beginning in July 1990, even though the period of review for this project
extends through 1991, the year the loan was canceled.
2.2         On August 8, 1991, the Government of Peru launched a
stabilizadon program aimed at eliminating the root causes or financial
imbalance, by ending preferential exchange rate subsidies and establishing strict
management of public finances. The stabilization program sought to bring about
a drastic reduction in hyperintlation by correcting distortions in relative prices
generated during the prior administration. This program was combined with the
initiation of structural reforms to reorganize the economy by eliminating
barriers to the free functioning of market forces and the promotion of productive
activities.
2.3         The new orientation of the economic program gave high priority
to intensified efforts aimed at ending the financial isolation which led, among
other things, to the drying up of sources of official and international financing
for development activities.
2.4        In the area of education, the new government has initiated a series
of reforms based on the following principal underpinnings:



- 13 -
a.    qualitative improvement of education, giving priority to rural
areas and border zones because of their condition as areas
plagued by the greatest educational iniquities;
b.   institutional change based on  the transfer of education
management to democratically organized communities;
c.    modification of the financing system oriented at providing direct
subsidies to educational centers and programs in order to ensure
better use of public resources without overturning the policy of
free education;
d.    rafionalization  and  de-bureaucratization  of all levels of
educational administration.
e.    execution of an aggressive program. of construction and
rehabilitation of school buildings and school rooms with priority
attention to marginal urban, rural and border areas.
3     Design and ganization of the Prec
3.1         The lengthy period used for the preparation of this project (1977-
1985) is a source of continuing puzzlement-eight years which included two
changes in national government.  It was to be expected, therefore, that
significant changes in educational policy and priorities would have occurred,
particularly since from 1977 on, the signs in favor of abandoning the educational
policy initiated in 1972 were quite visible.
3.2         The World Bank states that "such a long period of maturation
permitted the concepts and strategies of the project to mature before being
implemented': nonetheless, this was not demonstrated in the stage which really
counts-the execution of the project. Factors which influenced the lengthy
maturation include the following:
*     discontinuity of educational policy;
*     slow government response in the preparation of the project;
*     weakness of interinstitutional work;
*     insufficient motivational leadership;
*     failure of the Ministry of Education and the World Bank to leam from
the experiences of the prior project (Loan 949-PE); and
*     limited technical assistance from the World Bank.



- 14 -
4     Project Execution
4.1         As the World Bank states, the project had an unusual history.
Essentially, from when the project was first identified (1977) until the last
disbursement was made by the World Bank (1987) an entire decade went by.
In this period, at least six cohorts of students completed primary education and
seven cohorts completed secondary education. Nonetheless, World Bank
disbursements (1985-1987) totalled only 3 million dotlars, merely 180
classrooms were built through the project, and just barely 111,000 books were
printed. This anecdotal experience merits an exhaustive review of the operating
systems and procedures of both the Ministry of Education and the World Bank.
What then were the roles played by the 15 architects, 19 economists, 1I
education generalists and 4 textbook specialists, who participated in the 25
missions the Bank sent and who dedicated 227 staff weeks, with an average of
24.3 staff weeks per year in the period mentioned previously. (See Table 8.a.)
4.2         The project activities carried out from  May 1987, when
disbursements were suspended, to May 1991, when the loan was canceled, while
they maintained the momentum of the project, were made without World Bank
financing, exclusively with national financial support.  This enabled the
government of the time to reorient project priorities in accordance with the
economic and social policies subject to the availability of financing. This
affected (a) the sustainability of the project (as was to be expected because of
the difficult economic situation of the country); and (b) the orientation of
investment, which favored infrastructure to the detriment of other project
components.
5     Factors Which Affected Project Execution
5.1         The convergence of a variety of factors meant that the project
execution would not develop as was foreseen and thus the proposed objectives
would not be reached. It is important to highlight these factors and take
precautions in future projects. Minimizing risks which can be controlled can
ensure greater project success.
5.2         The most important lessons which can be drawn from this project
experience are the following:
it is vital to identify mechanisms which tend to reduce risks and
uncertainty in the context of financial crisis and political
changeability;
educational policy priorities should have the solid financial
backing of the Ministry of Economy and Finance to ensure a
timely flow of national counterpart resources;
when a project calls for interinstitutional participation, effective
integration should be established through a clear definition of



- 15 -
responsibilities authorizing a horizontal coordinating capacity and
delegating autonomy in decision making;
operating plans should be developed jointly, noting precisely the
task of each project component;
the project administration, a key part of execution, should be
developed from the beginning, very carefully, taldng into account
the following:
-     qualified, strong and balanced leadership;
-     dynamic and committed participation of all organizations
involved;
-    assurances so that personnel changes do not compromise
the continuity or the orientation of the project;
-     capacity to ensure adequate interinstitutional interaction;
and
-     smooth implementation of the project with a vision of the
whole.
project monitoring should be adequate and timely to enable
cofrection of factors which might affect the execution and results
of the project;
the World Bank's technical support should be brought to bear.



- 16-
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARRY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2465-PE)
PART II: Statistical Information



PERU - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 2465-PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Graph 1, Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements
30
25   .  ... ..... ...... ...  ......... . .... ....    ... .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~a 
20   .............. . .       .   . . . . . . .
t;  .. .. . . . ..    I .. . . . . .. . . . . tAppraisal Estimate 
10  ... .  ....     .. . .  .. .  .  . ..  . .  .
5 ...............................
b '/-~~~~~~~~U
1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991
Years
Based on Table 3.          .-17-



PERU-PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 2465-PE)
Project Completion Report
Graph 2. Planned and Actual Allocation of Bank Financing
Textbook Production
13%                                   Civil Works
Consultants, Studies                Furniture, Equipment,
17%                                 19%
Initial Deposit S/A                                Operating Costs
3%                                   ~~~~~~~~~~1%
Frniture & Equipment
19%
Civil Works                           Textbook Production    Consultants, Studies
47%                                       9%                    3%
Planned Disbursements: US$46.8 Million*               Actual Disbursements: US$3.1 Million
* These are percents of US$24.4 allocated. Loan total also includes US$3.2 million unallocated.
Based on Table 5b.



PERU-PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 2465-PE)
PROJECT COMPLE-TION REPORT
Graph 3. Staff Inputs
Staff Inputs (sws)
100
80
1 0 0   ..  ...  -  .    -  .      -   .  - -   - -  -- - -  - - --.-.--..    ..............                   .   ....  ....                .          
.:   :-   .:   :    .   -  .   .:  . ...   .    ..   -...                                 -  .:              ..                                        -     
.:: . . . . - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                     . .    .. .. .. ...
60
... .            . .. .   ..  .    ..    ..                                                                                         .      
''. ,,.''   ',,,','    ,'.,'   :- .' ,'.' . .... .. ... . . '. - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..                                ...   .
.......... .....  .-.--.....-..   -  .    .-
.    ->;.4.b.. ........ .......... ................... ....... ... .. .............. ;......;
- ...
-:- i ~~~~.              --:.. .....-.--..:-:.........--.-.--.-. ......................... . -...-
j. j-'':ij':-,   .    ...:........................ -..  .  .:,::,   ' : ...  .. - 
60~~~~~~~~.. ..-.......   .               ;                         ;       ---          --        ;     -         --        ;-        *       
40.. ,, j.,.... . . . .j
~~~~~~~~ ...:.-.:   -:      :-..::.: . :    ..   .....    ..    .                                     :                            .      .    ..  :-....     .:- .   :.:--:
.,, ,  ,., , ,., ,, ,,.,.,;,,. . , . .......... : .-::j: --''-:.' .'. ' : .' ' i . :'::.-:'' ''' -.'M. '' '
20  ........... .............................                                           .... ..........
.-....    '-     :           :::.             ::.       IL.                                     ......, .   ..- .. ...... .....         .       ........       ..      ..
. ...........    ............                                                                                                                                         ........j.;;.j.;:;:-'-:':':'j
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ,,                                                                                 .  ._.   _  ':...  .' .   .'    -". ...   '.'. :    :  '-:.''' ..; '
''''.'". '',-j"''..:.................. -- - -    '':.: -    ' AM        ......"'   ''         ''':"   ":             
,.,                                                                                   ,    .,    .  j    ,    ,   ,,    .,,,   ,   ,.   . . X , . j, ........ ... . . .. .. . ............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......    ..     .....  
20 .---...                                                                                                                                                               .
0
1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992
Years
Based on Table 8a.
- 19-



PERU-PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 2465-PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Graph 4. Use of Bank Missions
Person Days in Field
160
140       ...*............. I..... AppraisalI
1 20 . .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. . . . . . . .. ..... ..... ... ... ...... ...... ..
1()0 .     ... . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... ............ .
p        t  o6   ..      .................  .......  .        . .  . . .. ...  .............................  ..........
40   .. .................  ... . . ............   ............ .......... .......
80 
            20            40            6             80           100            120           140           160
1                     1~~~~ 
Months from Beginning of Projectimplementation
Through                     Board Presentation           ISupervisio
Based on Table 8b.   AprasaroE                                t active nes         Supervision



21
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2465-PE)
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                         Purpose                 Year of            Status
I                           ~~~~~~~~~Approval
949-PE                          Assisted the Government to introduce   FY74    Completed.
First Education Project         work-oriented curriculum into
secondary education.
2208-PE                         Assisted Govemment in accelerating     FY82    Comrpleted.
Higher Agricultural Education   the development of Peru's agricultural
sector by improving National Agrarian
University facilities and quality of
instruction.
2204-PE                         Assisted the Government to design      FY82    Completed.
Public Sector Management        and implement a program budgeting
system in each of the ministries.
2211 -PE                        Assisted Ministry of Health to         FY83    Disbursements
Primary Health Project         introduce comprehensive primary                  suspended May 1987.
health care strategy and to expand              Loan canceled May
coverage.                                       1991. Not completed.



-22-
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2465-PE)
Table 2. Project Timetable
DATE
ITEM            PLANNED        REVISED       ACTUAL
Identification (EPS)      n/a          3/23/81        3/23/81
Preparation             4181-8/81        n/a          7/14/81
Pre-Appraisal             9/81           n/a         10/20/81
Appraisal                 1/82         6/26/82        6/26182
Loan Negotiations         3/82         6/12/84        6/12/84
Board Approval            7/82         7/10/84        7/10/84
Loan Signing              8/84           n/a          2/15/85
Loan Effectiveness        n/a            n/a          6/10/85
Loan Cancellation         n/a            n/a          5/1/91
Loan Closing            6/30/91        6/30/91        5/1/91
Loan Completion           n/a         12/30/90    not completed
Loan Suspension            n/a           n/a          5/1/87



- 23 -
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2465-PE)
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$'000)
1984     1985     1986    1987       1988     1989     1990      1991
Appraisal Estimate               0.5       2.9      7.5     15.8     23.8      25.8     26.8     27.0
Actual                           0.0       0.3      2.2      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0
Actual as % of Estimate          0%       11%      29%      19%       13%      12%      11%       1 1
Date of Final Disbursement - 5/87



-24-
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2465-PE)
Table 4. Project Implementation
As of                  As of       Percent
INDICATORS                                  Appraisal   May'87   Between       May'91       Appraisal
Estimate  Suspension   87-91    Caneellation    Estimate
Obiective I: Adequste Sehool Places:
Urban schools built. renovated,equipped                                          90          i9         36            55      61.1%
New urban classrooms                                                            910         180       313            493      S4.2
Rural schools built, renovated, equipped                                         so           0          O0 .0I
New rural classrooms                                                            340           0          O             o       0.01
New student places                                                           SO,000       7,200    12,520         19,720      39.4%
Students accomodated (estimated)                                             76,500      11.000    19,000         30,000      39.2O
School furniture                                                               1,500        241         81           322      21.5%2
Obiective Il: Improved School Efficiency & Quality
Principals receive in-service training                                         2,500          0          0             0       0 C
Teachers receive in-service training (inc. principals)                        17,500        8                        899        5.1 0
Regional local supervisors receive in-servie traIning                          1,000         67                       67        6.7% 1
Children receive textbooks, other materials                                 300.000
Children receive bilingual textbooks                                        220,000   599,864   107,399          707,263     3 21  . i ]
Pilot curriculum developed for rnultigrade schools                                 1                   yes             1     100.0J%
Fellowships for multigrade visits                                                  6          0          0             0       0.0k
TA for multigrade school curriculum                                               10          0          0             0        0.0'x
Training for multigrade teachers                                                  20                   639           539    2695.C0%
TA for printing bilingual texts, training bilingual teachers                     yes          0          0             0
Training specialists bilingual teachers                                      12,000                    600           600        5.0S.
Study for expansion of bilingual education                                       yes                   yes           yes
Analysis of school administration completed                                      yes        yes        yes           yes
School admin. specialist assists to implement procedures in Chiclayo             yes         no         no            no
Seminar on school adm. supervision procedures (principals & super.)            3,500                   203           203        5.3%
Textbooks developed, pnnted, distributed                                  3.000,000      50,759    60,000        110,759        3.7%
Extension of INIOE's printing facilities                                         yes                                 yes
Construc:ion of a textbook warehouse                                             yes                     I
Obiective IlIl: Management Improvement
Months of TA to INIOE to organize textbook unit                                  41           0          0             0      0.00%
Study for permanent system for textbook distribution completed                     1        yes                      yes
Analysis of functions INIED could delegate to COROES                               1          0          0                    0.00%
INIED staff receive training in school construction management                   yes          0          0             0
School mapping exercise for site selection completed                               1          0          0             0      0.00%
Months of TA to INIED                                                             15          O    0                   0      0.00%
Study for improving Ministry budgeting process and information system              1          0          0             0      0.00%
Assessment of computer software for automoetad budgedng & scctg.                   1          0          0             0      0.0coC
Months of TA for budgeting, accounting                                            15          0          0             0      0.00%'
* not possible to determine



-25-
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2465-PE)
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
5a. PROJECT COSTS
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE             REVISED ESTIMATE                   ACTUAL
LOCAL   FOREIGN |             LOCAL   FOREIGN               LOCAL   FOREIGN
ITEM           COSTS  EXCHANG    TOTAL    COSTS  EXCHANGE  TOTAL   COSTS  EXCHANGE  TOTAL
COSTS |                        COSTS                         COSTS
(US$M)                        (US$M)                        (US$M)
Civil Works                 17.21      3.72      20.93              n/a                           n/a
Furniture                    2.39      0.54       2.93              n/a                           n/a
Equipment                    1.53      1.36       2.89              nla                           n/a
Textbooks                    2.23      2.23       4.46              n/a                           n/a
Technical Assistance         2.18      0.97       3.15              n/a                           n/a
Contingencies                9.10      3.27      12.37              n/a                           n/a
Fee                          0.00      0.07       0.07              n/a                           n/a
TOTAL                       34.64     12.16       46.8         _                                             11.66
5b. PROJECT FINANCING _____
_B_   _   EIANK  |   ACTUAL
SOURCE          PLANNED  ACTUAL   AS % OF
(US SM'OOO      PLANNED
I 8 R 0:
Civil Works                11,000     2,017       18%
Furniture & Equipment       4,500       594       13%
Textbook Production         3,000       278        9%
Consultants, Fellowships    4,100        94        2%
Operating Costs              500         27        5%
Initial Deposit S/A          600          0        0%
Fee                            67        67      100%
Unallocated                 3.233         0        0%
Domestic Total:            19,800     8,S76       43%
TOTAL                      46,800    1,.654       25%



- 26 -
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2465-PE)
Table 6. Project Results
6A. Direct Benefits
Estimated at      Estimated at      Percent
INDICATORS                           Appraisal        May-87            May491          Appraisal
Estimate      Suspension        Cancellation      Estimate
Additional student places                                       50,000              7,200            19.720          39%
Textbooks produced and distributed                            3,000,000            50,753           110,759           4%
Manuscripts produced and distributed                                 15                12                14          93%
School supervisors trained                                        1.000                67                             0%
School principals trained                                         2.500                                               0%
Teachers trained                                                 17,500              899                899           5%
Staff months of fellowships                                          60                                               0%
Staff months of specialists                                        206                                                0%
School children with adequate places                            76,500             11,000            30.000          39%
Students with adequate texts, teaeching                        300.000       No data           No data
INIOE capable of:
coordinating, monitoring in-service teacher training        yes              no                no
INIDE textbook devleopment, printing, distirbution systems
improved                                                    yes              no                no
INIOE and INIED readv to improve rural primary ed. by 1988     yes             no                 no



27
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2465-PE)
Table 6. Project Results
6D. Studies
Studies             Purpose as Defined at Appraisal   Status by Loan Closing      Impact of Study    l
1. Bilingual Education       Assess necessary inputs for      3 out of 7 studies         Comprehensive
Feasibility Study         national bilingual education for all  completed: Linguistics,  diagnosis for curriculum
vernacular speaking children;   Statistic, Socio-Cultural   development and
recommend appropriate phasing.   conditions.               teacher training.
2. INIED's Administrative    Analysis of functions to delegate   Not executed.           n/a.
Structure                 to CORDES.
3. School Mapping            Determine school sites for later    Proposal and a few      Not possible to
phases of national education    instruments for data        determine accurately
program:                        collection were developed.   but probably small.
(a) criteria and guidelines;
(b) physical condition and repair
needs of existing schools;
(c) policies for investment;
(d) construction standards and
methods for different climates.
4. Follow-up study of the    Assess the key issues for        Not executed.              n/a
Public Sector Management  improving the budgeting process
Project                   and information system.
5. Characteristics of the    Assess the local management for   Completed in Arequipa only. Provided inputs for
School Administrator      future improvement of school                                future action.
administration.                                                                   I
6. Situation analysis of the    Provision of information for  Completed in Arequipa only. Use of mnultigrade
multigrade schools.       curriculum and organization of                              curriculum design.
multigrade schools.



28
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2465-PE)
Table 7. Status of Major Covenants
Covenant                 Description                     Subject       J    Deadline for          Status by Loan Closing
L  __   _   _  _                                      |    ~~~~~~~~~~~          ~     ~~Complbance i_
3.02 Cb)    Borrower shall hire firm to coordinate  TechnicalAssistance    June 30. 1985       Agreement prepared with
provision of technical assisrance.     Coordination                                OAS and approved by Bank
(April 1987). Action
suspended because of lack of
financing.
3.06        Borrower shall acquire land and rights  Land Rights for       December 31. 1985   Land belongs to MOE and
required for construction and operation of  School Construction                    was available for
facilides.                                                                         construcdon.
3.09        Borrower shall field-test eachl textbook  textbook Reld       Prior to production.    Some textbooks were field
manuscript in accordance with criteria  Tesz;ng                                   tested.
agreed upon with Bank.
3.10        Borrower shall furnish Bank with        SchoolAdrninistration   March 31. 1986     Office oS Primary Education
recommendations on school management  S.udy.                                       agreed to prepare
and school adn.;nistr2ticn and implement                                          recommendations in
recommendations considering Bank                                                  December 1988 but did not
comments.                                                                         do so.
3.13        Borrower shell submit to Bank TOR for  Ministry of Education    June 30, 1985      Not executed.
Ministry of education budgeting study  Institutional
and assessment of Minist"y computer    Strengthening Study
software needs for budgeting and
accounting.



-29-
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2465-PE)
Table 8a. Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs (sws)
Cumulative                % Total
stage of Project Cydle     Planned    Revised      Final     by Phase   Cumulative  Staff Input            Comments
Through Appraisal
1976 n/a         n/a                  1           1           1          1 %
1977 nla         n/a                 0                        1          1 %
1978 n/a         n/a                  5           6           6          2%
1979 nia         n/a                1 9          25          25        10%
1981 n/a         n/a                37           62          61        25%
1982 n/a         n/a                40          102         102        42%
1983 n/a         n/a                 54         156         156        64%
1984 n/a         n/a                21          177         177        73%
Appraisal to
Board Presentation
1984 n/a         n/a                  6           6         183        75%
1985 n/a         nla                  2           8         185        76%
Board Presentation to
Effectiveness
1985 n/a
Supervfsion
1986 n/a         n/a                 15          15         200        89%
1987 n/a         n/a                 10          24         210        93%
1988 n/a         n/a                  7          31         217        96%
1989 n/a         nla                  5          36         222        98%
1990 n/a         n/a                  1          37         223        99%
1991 n/a         n/a                  4          41         227       100%
1992         12                      0           41         227       100%
Intensity of staff input: one staff week per $13,600 disbursed.



- 30 -
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2465-PE)
Table 8b. Use of Bank Resources
Use of Bank Missions
Stage of          Mission  Mae. since  No. of  No. of  Person-Days    StaffHCons.    Overall  Type of
Project Cycle       Dates  revious Missio Persons  Days    In Field  Specalization    Rating   Problems
Through Appraisal            03/76      0        3     25        75       not specified
10/77      5        5     28       140        UNESCO
05/78      7        2     5        10           a, b
12/80      7        3     12       36          2b, lc
02/81      2        6     7        42        2a, 2b, d, e             t
07/81      5        1    21        21             f                   t
10/81      3        4     10       40          a,b,d,f                t
01/82      3        1     3         3            d                    m
05/82      4        1     12        12           d                    m
Appraisal to Board Presentation  07/82  2        6     21       126       2a, b, d, f, g
09/83      14       3     12       36          a, d. g
10/83      1        4     3        12            4b
07/84      9        1     5         5            a
Board Presentation-Effectivenes  08/84  1        2     14        28           2d
05/85      9        3     16       48          la, d, f      2      f, ms p
Supervision                  10/85      5        3     12        36          a, b, g       2        f
12/85      2        2     5        10           a, d         2        f
04/86      4        2     11       22            a,d         2        f
10/86      6        3     11       33           a,b,d        2        m
05/87      7        2     10       20            b,d         2       f, p
02/88      9        1     12        12           b                   f, m
03/88      1        1     11        11            b          3       f, m
10/88      1        1     6         6            b                   f, m
09/90     23        1     7         7            d           4       f, m
LEGEND
Specialization: a   Architect; b = Educator; c = Operations Assistant; d = Education Specialist;
e = Economist; f = Statistician; g = Analyst.
Type of Problems: F- Financial; T = Technical; M = Management; P   Physical.



