nOCUMent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LAJ. ZYf65-P6
R-lt NMe P-3852--E
REPORT AND RECO 0ENDATION
OF TE
PRESIDENT OF 1fE
IAERATIOXAL BANK F(C RECONSTRUCTION AIID DEVELOPlAEL
TO 7RE
EXECUTIVE DIREHTOERS
ON A
PROK)OSED LO&N
IN AN AMWON EQUIVALENr TO USS 27.0 (ILLIOlN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
PRMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
June 20, 1981&
This docme  ba a rsc  diuio. and my be Xmd by wee4jeas may in the p|f.imceso
their SdIal dude.. Us Poi-t  mxy not adagwise be disclosed witho BWd   sud_*  I



CUXRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
differential between domestic and international inflation.  The exchange rate
and currency equivalents in 1983 and as of May 15, 1984 were as follows:
Currency Unit - Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1983            May 15, 1984
US$1 -          SJ. 1,629                 SI. 3,025
SI. I           US$0.0006                US$0.0s 3
SI. 1,000       US$0.61                  US$0.33
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACADnIKC YEAR
April I to December 20
CORDEs     -    Corporaciones de Desarrollo
(Departmental Development Corporations)
ESEP       -    Escuela Superior de Educacion Profeslonal
(Upper Secondary School for Professional Education)
GTZ        -    Gesellschaft fur Techaischc Zu      euarbeit
(German Ageucy for Technical Cooperation)
LNLED    _    Instituto Nacional de Infraestructura Educativa
(National Institute for Educatioa Infrastructure)
INIDE      -    Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y Desarrollo
Educativo
(National Institute for Research and Education
Development)
IDB        -    Inter-American Development Bank
XOE        -   ministry of Education
NEC        -    Consejo Nacional de Educacion
(National Education Council)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
PRIKARY EDUCAION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Peru
Amount:            US$27 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:             Repayable in 17 years, including four years or grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:       The objectives of this project are to improve the
accessibility , administration and quality or primary
education in low income urban and rural areas, principally
by: (i) providing 50,000 new student places to accommodate
76,500 students in double shifts; (ii) improving school
management practices and training school administrators
and teachers; (iii) providing textbooks and other learning
materials; and (iv) expanding bilingual education programs
for Aymara- and Quechua-speaking children. The project
would also strengthen the Ministry of Education's (MOE)
project execution and operating capacity.
Special Risks:     The principal risks that the project faces are weak
administration, which may result in slow execution, and a
possible shortage of counterpart funds during a period of
fi=ancial austerity. To help assure that the project is
carried out expeditiously: (i) final designs have been
prepared for the initial civil works; (ii) the KOE staff
is being strengthened and technical assistance has been
included to support its operations; and 'iii) a
Coordinating Group would be set up to monitor project
progress. The financial requirements of the project would
be reviewed annually by the Coordinzting Group, which
would include a Ministry of Economy representative, to
agree on an adequate allocation of resources for each
year.
This document has a estcted ditbution and may be used by repients only m the performance of i
thei ofridi dutiu Its contents ay not otherwise be discosed wihout Wodd Bank authorizaton



- ii -
Estimated Costs: 1I                           Local      Foreign     TotaL
-USS million
School Construction                       17.2        3.7        20.9
Equipment and Furniture                    3.9         1.9        5.8
Textbooks                                  2.2        2.3         4.5
Technical Assistance                       1.6        0.9         2.5
Project Administration                     0.6        0.1         0.7
Base Cost                             25.5        8.9        34.4
Contingencies:
Physical              2.1        0.7         2.8
Price                 7.0        2.5         9.5
Total Project Cost:                   34.6       12.1        46.7
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                  -         0.1         0.1
Total Financing Required                 34.6       12.2        46.8
Local     Foreign      Total
-US$ million
Financing Plan:
World Bank                                14.8       12.2        27.0
Government                                19.8         -         19.8
TOTAL                                 34.6       12.2        46.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                  1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Annual                    1.9    3.0    6.6    8.3    5.0    1.7    0.5
Cumulative                1.9    4.9   11.5   19.8   24.8   26.5   27.0
Rate of Return:                  N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:          Report No. 4487d-PE, dated June 20, 1984
1/   Including identifiable taxes and duties (see para. 61).



INTERIhATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMEtDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBR)
1U ItE hAEGUINV    DCIVR fLURS 0h A '&OP5EU LAh 10
IHE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR A
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following reporL and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$27.0 million to help finance
a Primary Education Project. The proposed loan would have a ternm of 17
years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.-       An economic report entitled -Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations- (Report No. 3438-FE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. The following is based on the findings of that
report, the results of an economic mission to Peru in July/August 1982 and on
follo-t-up missions in February and September 1983. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Natural and human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: che coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's popu-
lation; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the Andes
(Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade among the three re-
glons.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals-par-
ticularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc-located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa, and substantial petroleum resources in the Selva and off-
shore, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained. Another major
natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal waters, although
the catch is subject to sharp fluctuations. Only a small portion of Peru's
totai land area is arable, and most of the soils suitable for intensive agri-
culture are already being farmed.
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is ex-
pected to remain the major energy source through the rest of this century.
After discovery of oil in the Selva, Peru's domestic oil production more than
doubled between 1977 and 1982 to over 195,000 barrels per day (bpd), and it
1/ Part I is substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report
for the Lima Metropolitan Development Project (No. P-3839PE  of June 1,
19s4).



- 2 -
became a aet exporter of about 62,000 bpd. To enable Peru to remain a net
petroleum exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated
secondary recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of
rational pricing policies to contain demand growth. Prices for domestically
consumed petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals. In
addition, new legislation was enacted offering -pecial tax incentives to do-
mestic and foreign investors.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. Since the
early 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the urbaniz-
ation process and improved education. But with declining death rates, popu-
lation has continued to grow at about 2.5 percent p.a. between 1972 and 1981
to 17 million. Preliminary 1981 census information indicates that fertility
declined by 20 percent during the past decade and the current rate of popula-
tion growth has dropped to 2.2 percent p.a. The census also indicates that
the reduction in population growth is most marked among the 65 percent of the
population living in urban areas. The Government is quite population-con-
scious and is now supporting a family planning program.
Past Development Pollcies and Performance (1968-78)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 19b8
until July 198U, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth. The pattern or asset
ownership in the economy changed drastically through nationalization of pro-
duction and distribution activities, and through a sweeping land reform.
However, many of the policies carried out after 1968 had an excessive cost,
and their implementation was inefficient. In particular, expansionary fiscal
and credit policies between 196B8 and 1977 produced strong inflationary pres-
sures and expanded external borrowing, raising Peru's external debt to almost
US$8.4 billion (including short-term indebtedness); about two-third's of
GDP. By mid-1978, the country was in the midst of a severe financial crisis;
inflation had accelerated to an annual rate of about 100 percent and the
banking system's net international reserves dropped to a negative level of
US$1 billion. Peru was no longer able to service its foreign obligations.
8.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by ar-
rangement with the L'F in support of the stabilization program, and carried
out major debt-relief operations, postponing repayment of about US$1 billion
due in 1979/80 to the 1982-1986 period.  The Government then adopted a com-
plementary Economic Recovery Program, which included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system, and
generally improve the efficiency of resource allocation in the private and
public sectors.  These policy changes-together with a declining domestic
market because of the recession-resulted in a large increase in the value of
manufactured exports, from about US$200 million in 1977 to the US$75U-8uO
million range in 1980-81. The Government also drew up a public sector in-
vestmet-t program emphasizing projects of clear economic priority and with
positive effects on production and employment. To support the program, the
Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in May 1979.



-3-
9.        The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979. The
overall public sector deficit was reduced from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to
1.7 percent in 1979, and the more careful management of public finances had a
positive impact on the balance of payments. At the same time, an increase in
petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of Peru's terms ot trade gen-
erated a surplus in the current account of the balance of payments in 1979
and equilibrium in 1980. At year end 1980, the net reserve position had im-
proved to about US$1.3 billion. Growing incomes as a result of good external
sector performance and, in 1980, a reacceleratio-, of public sector expendi-
tures, resulted in renewed growth of GLP, at an average rate ot 3.9 percent
in 1979-1980. Ho-wever, the public sector deficit increased again to six per-
cent of GDP in 1980, and inflation exceeded 60 percent.
10.       After a new constitution was written by a popularly elected con-
stituent assembly, elections were held in May 1980, and the winner, President
Fernando Belaunde, was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a
challenging situation with severe structural weaknesses which had been only
temporarily attenuated by the improvements in the terms of trade and the re-
sumption of growth. The new Government was committed to structural transfor-
mation based on opening up the economy; encouragement of private sector ini-
tiative and reduced public sector participation in economic activities; and
improved efficiency in the remaining public sector activities. Its reliance
on, and promotion of, private initiative, in particular, distinguish the pre-
sent Government's philosophy and economic program from that of its inmediate
predecessors.
II.       The Government was successful in accelerating import liberalization
by eliminating non-tariff barriers and lowering tariffs, and in streamlining
export incentives. At the same time, new legislation was enacted for the
agricultural, mining and petroleum sectors, offering greater incentives to
investors. Substantial changes were made in the financial sector, through
upward adjustments of the interest rate, and reduction of legal reserve re-
quirements. The Government also made progress in correcting major price dis-
tortions by reducing food subsidies, eliminating some price controls and ad-
justing periodically public utility and petroleum product prices. Finally,
the Government endeavored to rationalize public investment and its financing-
-an effort that was supported by a Bank-sponsored Consultative Group meeting
in May 1981--and initiated actions to strengthen public sector institutions.
Recent Developments and Outlook
12.       Unfortunately, the 1981-83 world recession made Peru's adjustment
difficult. In 1981, the first full year of the new Government, the wo)rld
demand for Peru's main exports decLiaed, interest rates on the country's ex-
ternal debt increased to an all-time high, and the terms of trade fell by 10
percent as a result of lower export prices. The overall negative impact of
these external events on Peru's balance of payments was estimated at US$740
million. A substantial recovery of agricultural output (with a growth rate
of almost 12 percent) and an even faster growth of construction (mostly
public) allowed GDP growth of near four percent. However, industrial output
stagnated, mining fell by four percent, the public sector deficit increased
to about eight percent of GDP and the current account of the balance of pay-
ments closed with a deficit of US$1.7 billion.



- 4 -
13.       By 1982, economic activity was slowing down, world commodity prices
continued to fall, and the public sector deficit had also increased. The
Government adopted an austerity program designed to reduce the public sector
deficit and regain external equilibrium. Peru's mini-devaluations were ac-
celerated and exceeded domestic inflation by a wide margin, thus restoring
part of the competitiveness lost in previous years. In June 1982, the DMF
approved an SDR 850 million compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement to support
Peru's s-;abilization and structural adjustment efforts. The current account
deficit in the balance of payments was reduced slightly (to US$1.6 billion)
in 1982, in spite of lower export prices, but GDP growth slowed to less than
one percent, industrial output fell more than two percent, the public sector
deficit rose to 8.8 percent of GDP, and inflation continued at more than 70
percent.
14.       The still sizeable public sector and current account deficits,
combined with the reduced availability of external loans from international
commercial banks, encouraged the Government to try to accelerate the adjust-
ment process in 1983. The new measures included a large cut in public in-
vestment, acceleration of price adjustments of publicly supplied goods and
services, and faster reduction of food subsidies. Also, the Government
followed a restrictive monetary policy, and mini-devaluations from January to
August 1983 again exceeded domestic inflation.
15.       Peru's economic difficulties, however, were compounded by natural
disasters suffered during the first half of 1983. Ueavy rains flooded the
northern part of the country; there was also a severe drought in the south,
massive landslides in the central area, and a reduction in the fish catch.
Yost of these were linked to a change in El Nino, a current in the Pacific
Ocean off the Peruvian coast, which also affected weather in other parts of
the world. These disasters were costly; replacing the damaged infrastructure
may require over US$500 million (about 40 percent of the 1983 public invest-
ment budget). Output losses were also substantial. Agricultural production
was particularly hard hit in the north of Peru where cotton crops were de-
stroyed. Flooding of the Talara oil fields and damage to the trans-Andean
pipeline caused a 12 percent drop in oil production (to an average of 172,000
bpd), and a ten percent fall in petroleum exports.
16.       The combined impact of the natural disasters, low commodity prices,
limited access to external borrowing and the high debt burden produced a
severe economic recession in 1983; GDP fell by about 10 percent, with all
sectors showing a decline in output.  At the same time, inflation accelerated
to 125 percent, partly because of the natural disasters but also because of
inflationary expectations fueled by the mini-devaluations. The current
account deficit in the balance of payments was reduced, to about US$1 bil-
lion, but only because of much lower imports.  Financing of even this reduced
deficit required a renegotiation of the commercial bank debt (in March 1983)
and of the debt to Paris Club member countries (in July 1983). The commer-
cial bank debt was rescheduled in the context of a jumbo- loan that also
provided for US$450 million of fresh money. Public sector revenues also
declined-substantially in 1983 because of the recession, and the public
sector deficit far exceeded the Government's programmed target.



17.       By the end of 1983, it was clear to the Government that its EFF
program could not be placed on track, so it negotiated with the IMF an 18-
month standby to replace the final period of the EFF. The IMF Board approved
the standby in April 1984. As part of its new program, the Government
authorized and raised interest payments on bank deposits, raised electricity
and water rates in real terms and confirmed its tight monetary program. On
the strength of the negotiated standby, Peru's commercial creditor banks
agreed to a rescheduling of US$1.5 billion amortization due them between
January 1984 and July 1985, and bilateral lenders agreed at the Paris Club in
June 1984 to reschedule over US$800 million of 1984/85 maturities and
interest payments. There, of course, remains a continuing need for official
development assistance, including local cost financing. Peru's economic
recovery will depend greatly on recovery in the developed countries-the
chief market for its important mineral exports and newer manufactured
exports. Nevertheless, sound domestic policies are also critical for this
recovery. Provided the Government maintains its new program, economic growth
may resume after 1984; a medium-term growth of about four-five percent per
year and a manageable balance of payments situation would then be possible
and Peru will remain creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
18.       The Bank has approved 57 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,641.9 million, net of cancellations. About 23 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 26
percent for agriculture, 20 percent for the energy sector, 10 percent for
mining and industry, about 13 percent for education, health and urban
development, 7 percent for a program loan in support of the Economy Recovery
Program in 1979, and 1 percent for a technical assistance operation.
19.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their dis-
bursement status as of March 31, 1984. As of this date, US$730 million was
undisbursed; this figure reflects many recently approved loans (11 in
1982-83). Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late
1970s, primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of
counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this
period. Disbursements improved until FY83, however, with vigorous efforts by
the Bank and Government to correct the situation by: inter alia, (i) opening
a Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv)
Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution and re-
solve administrative problems. Disbursement rates in FY80-82 averaged 33
percent, well above comparable countries and above pre-1980 rates for Peru.
Although actual disbursements continued to rise in FY83 and FY84, the rate
decreased to around 20 percent because the large number of loans approved in
1982-83 increased the undisbursed balance.



- 6 -
20.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in:
(i) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial sectors, i.e., petroleum,
agriculture and mining; (ii) the strengthening, through technical assistance
loans and regular operations, of public sector management, including more ef-
fective economic policies; (iii) the creation of the physical infrastructure
needed to sustain and foster economic development; and (iv) the improvement
of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank lending
concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors. More
recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive fields-
--petroleum, agriculture, mining, and industry-to help Peru to strengthen
its balance of payments. Lending for social projects has also grown and will
be stepped up further in the future. The proposed project addresses both the
objective of creating physical infrastructure to foster development and the
improvement in living conditions of the low-income population. In addition,
Peru has been approved as eligible for the Bank's Special Action Program
(SAP) and seven projects are receiving support under that program. Future
operations are being prepared in industry, water and power.
21.       Bank loans constituted an estimated b.O percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1983, and ab-
sorbed about nine percent of the country's public external debt service in
1983 (taking into account the effects of rescheduling of 1983 principal and
interest payments). Although Peru is espected to continue to seek long-term
bilateral and multilateral aid, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding
public foreign debt by 1985 should remain about six percent, and its share of
debt-service would be around 4.5 percent, assuming the relative'ly modest Bank
lending program expected over the next two years.
22.       IFC commitments as of March 31, 1984 were US$40.8 million (includ-
ing US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone
Copper Mining Project) of which US$15.5 million is held by the Corporation.
A summary statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1984 is presented in
Annex II.
23.       Th'3 other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for Internation-
al Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31, 1982 were
US$1.4 billion and about US$400 million, respectively, and their shares of
public debt service as of end-1982 were estimated at 1.7 percent and 0.9
percent, respectively. In its future operations, IDB is expected to
emphasize lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads and small-scale
irrigation. USAID is expected to stress rural, urban and private sector
development.
PART III - PRIMARY EDUCATION
Overview
24.       The education and training system of Peru, except for private
schools and some vocational training programs, is administered by the
Ministry of Education (MOE). The private sector accounts for about 13
percent of enrolled students at the primary level; the rest is public.



Education is provided inefficiently to children by this system and is of low
quality. This system has been in a state of transition since the early
1970s. As part of an education reform approved in 1971, the system was to be
gradually changed from a six year primary, five year secondary, and four-five
year higher education structure, to nine years of basic education (formal and
non-formal) followed by higher education, which was to be divided into: (i) a
first cycle in an upper secondary school (ESEP), a vocationally oriented
institution; (ii) a second university cycle; and (iii) a third cycle of
graduate studies. The Bank's First Education Loan (Ln. 949-PE of FY74 for
E       $24 million) financed the construction of basic education and ESEP
facilities.
*       25.       The reform was only partially implemented: most of the secondary
level still coexists with that of basic education and the ESEP scheme. The
present Government wishes to return to the pre-1971 system and has prepared a
new education reform for this purpose. The ESEPs would be reorganized as
post-secondary institutions for technical and vocational education, but
without being a first step towards higher education. The education system
would provide a two-year pre-school program and six years of primary, five
years of secondary, and five-six years of higher education (including both
university and non-university programs). The pre-school programs were
introduced after pilot programs indicated that such early education could
reduce repetition and dropouts. Parallel to this regular stream, a limited
basic education program under the MOE-designed for illiterate adults and
dropouts of the formal system under the 1972 reforms- will continue to
function, offering courses in primary and secondary education.
26.       Although there are problems with the quality, efficiency and
accessibility of education at all levels of the system, primary education is
perhaps Lhe most deficient.  The project presented in this report, therefore.
focuses on activities to address the most serious difficulties in the primary
education system.
Primary Education
27.       The primary education system in Peru-both public and private-grew
rapidly in the 1970s. During that period, gross enrollment increased by 35
percent to 3.2 million students in 1981. Although this increase is in line
with the population growth, there are large target groups still without
access to schooling. In 1981, for instance, some 450,000 youngsters (or 20
percent of the corresponding age group) were not enrolled in school.
28.       The major problems confronting Peru's public primary education
system are that: (i) many children do not finish school; and (ii) the quality
of education is poor and the achievement levels of those who graduate are
low. The MOE is inadequately organized, staffed and financed to deal
effectively with these problems.
29.       Failure to Complete School.   Although 95 percent of all children
have initial access to primary education, only 56 percent of the students who
enroll in first grade finish the six-year program, which indicates the low
efficiency of the system. High repetition and dropout rates are caused by:
(a) late entrance to school (less than 35 percent of the students are
attending the grade which corresponds to their age); (b) school absenteeism



- 8 -
(as a daily average, 15 percent of the children are absent from urban schools
and 30 percent are absent from rural schools); (c) inadequate physical
facilities (about 40 percent of existing public schools need major repairs,
about one-third of the children do not have desks or chairs, and most urban
classrooms are overcrowded); (d) an inadequate evaluation system (there ore
no standardized exams, comparisons among outcomes from different schools, or
educaLion research); (e) language problems (vernacular speaking children,
about 30 percent of the total, have great difficulty in learning in
Spanish-medium classrooms, which most of them attend); and (f)
poverty-parents are often unable to finance such costs of schooling as                     0
paper, clothing, books, transportation, and loss of the child's labor.
30.       Low Learning Achievement Levels.  Children in Peruvian schools do
not learn enough and the achievement levels of those who graduate are poor.
Although documentation on achievement in Peru is scarce, the few studies and
field observations available reveal that completion of primary school in Peru
does not assure functional literacy. In addition to some of the other
inadequacies in the school system mentioned above, low achievement can be
attributed primarily to (a) poor quality of teaching; and (b) lack of
teaching materials and textbooks.
31.       About three-fourths of primary school teachers have graduated from
normal schools with four years of post-secondary education. This is good
compared with the rest of the region, where primary school teachers are often
only secondary school graduates. However, in rural areas only 30 percent of
teachers are similarly qualified. Also, in-service training opportunities
are limited and the quality has been poor; thus, teachers have little support
in maintaining and improving their skills.
32.       Textbooks and basic learning materials are in short supply in
Peruvian classrooms. The cost of the learning materials such as paper and
pencils is estimated at US$15 per student per year, but parents usually
cannot afford them.  In addition, two-thirds of the children do not have use
of even one textbook and none are available in rural areas. Moreover, there
are virtually no teachers' manuals or guides. Efforts to distribute
textbooks have failed due to lack of adequate distribution plans and lack of
appropriate warehouse.
Education Management
33.       The new education program (paras. 25, 40 and 41) would create a
four level structure for education administration:
(a)  national policies would be articulated by a National Education
Council (NEC) with representatives of the President of Peru,
the universities, scientific and cultural organizations and
parents and teachers;
(b) national-level administration would be the responsibility of
the MOE;
(c) regional offices now being established in each of the 25
departments of Peru, including Lima, would also be MOE
responsibility; and



- 9 -
Cd) local school supervision would be conducted by the local
supervision offices being established at the provinciall
micipal level.
34.       Ar present, the new operational guidelines for these offices are
still in the design process, and the system is not yet operating effec-
tively. The NEC has not yet begun to advise the NOE on policy matters.
Horeover, horizontal and vertical coordlnation is weak among offices in the
education sector and the HOE has not yet begun to delegate authority to the
regional offices that have been established. At ths local level, supervisors
and school principals are reporting to provincial and regional directors, as
well as to the MOE central offices.
35.       The poor use of available computer systems further aggravates the
management weaknesses of the education sector. The budget accounting
process, which has been partially computerized, needs to be synchronized with
other programs-  Similarly, payroll, which is a major task in te NOE since
180,000 staff are paid monthly, is only partially computerized.
36.       Finally, the MOE faces a number of major personnel problems; (i)
lack of trained managers; (ii) poor salaries; and (iii) uneven distribution
of the education staff between Lima and the regions. Education adminis-
trators generally have little experience or training in administration. This
situation is aggravated by the low civil service salaries which lately have
lagged behind inflation and do not aLlow for recruitment of trained
managers   In addition, most of the MOE specialists in curriculum develop-
ment, education planning and evaluation are located at headquarters, leaving
the regi3ns with only supervisory staff. The majority of the regions have
mostly school supervisors who are usually too overburdened with adminis-
trative work to carry out their own duties.
Fina-kcial Problems
37.       Education's share in public expenditures has fallen dramatically
over the past two decades. In 1965, education (MOE budget only) absorbed 25
percent of total central government revenues; in 1970 it absorbed 19 percent,
and in 1982, 11 percent, less in real terms than in 1970. As a percentage of
GDP, education expenditures fell from five percent in 1965 to 2.5 percent in
1982.
38.       The principal causes of this have been: Ca) constant political
friction, especially at the university level, which seems to have cooled the
successive Governments' enthusiasm for education; Cb) the economic crisis of
the late 1970s, which reduced Government spending; (c) Government policy, in
the face of economic crisis and limited public revenues, to favor investment
activities with shorter pay-off periods; and (d) the limited implementation
capacity of the MOE, which could not efficiently carry out capital spending
programs.
39.       This reduction in financing for the sector has adversely affected
teacher salaries, capital investments, and non-salary operational expend-
itures. For example, in 1980 the monthly salary of a married, full-time
primary school teacher with ten yeara experience was about 35 percent of what
it had been in 1973 (when salaries reached their peak). Important salary
increases were granted in 1981, which pushed salaries to about 70-75 percent



- 10 -
of their 1973 level; however. continuing inflation rapidly eroded these
gains. Increases were again made in 1984. Despite the wage decline in real
terms, teachers salaries, especially outside of Lima, remain fairly compe-
titive, since wages in all sectors have been adversely affected by the
country's economic difficulties. Capital investment, important non-salary
current expenditures (e.g. school maintenance, travel ana per diem for super-
vision and teacher upgrading), and the availability of textbooks for primary
and secondary school students have also been hard hit.
Government Objectives and Strategy
40.       The Government recognizes that primary education is essential for
overcoming the economic, cultural and social constrain-s of the poor urban
and rural populations. Despite the severe budget constraints in al sectors,
certain education sector investments, including this project, have been given
priority. Accordingly, the MOE has prepared a ten-year program for expanding
and improving the primary school system. The program aims at:
(a) providing adequate schooling places for all primary school-age children
by 1993; (b) improving the quaity of primary education; and (c) modernlzing
education administration. The Government's strategy in primary education is
in line with the Rank's development strategy for Peru, which emphasizes
improved yield of public sector resources through better management and
higher labor productivity through better education and training.
41.       In order to carry out this program, the Government has moved to
reorganize and strengthen the sector. School construction is now carried out
by: (i) INIED (National Institute of Education Infrastructure) which was set
up in 1981 under the MOE and is responsible for carrying out externally
financed education projects; (ii) the CORDEs (the Departmental Development
Corporatioas) which execute small domesticalLy financed projects; and (iii)
the -Cooperacion Populir- program for school building, which promotes local
commity action projecr-Lz- Ii%DID, is now fully organtzed and staffed and
alrea-iy has experience in carrying out school construction programs. In
addition to school constr"ction, INIED would construct all planned teacher
training facilities, which are being considered for financing by the IDB.
The CORDEs would be responsible for building the greatest number of planned
public school classrooms (50 percent of the Government program), which will
be financed exclusively with Government funds. The -Cooperacion Popular-
program is financed with Government's funds and with community resources.
Implementation of the -Cooperacion Popular- program has been strengthened
through technical assistance from CARE (Cooperative for American Relief
Everywhere).
42.       About 20,000 new classrooms over the 1984-93 period would be needed
to provide universal primary education to all school-age children by 1993.
Because this is an ambitious program, particularly in view of current finan-
cial difficulties, the Government plans to implement it in three phases. The
first phase of the program, which would involve the construction of 6,000 new
classrooms, would meet the needs of the highest priority target groups i.e.,
the studends of poor urban areas and of selected rural neighborhoods. The
fast growing cities have been selected by the Government for this phase
because of their high concentrations of poor people, and because their educa-
tion needs are well identified and would be comparatively easy to meet in the
starting phase of the program, particularly in view of the managerial and
administrative constraints faced by MOE and the recently established CORDEs.



- it -
43.       Improvement in Quality and Efficiency.  The education program also
encourages improvement of the quality and efficiency of primary education.
The strategy to accomplish these improvements calls for: (a) setting
standards (there are nsw no standardized exams) and providing training and
resources to strengthen school administration practices (remedial programs
for slow learners, control of student attendance, establishment or criteria
for school groupings and effective use of class time); (b) provision of
textbooks and related teaching guides for all primary students; (C) training
of about 20,000 teachers and school administrators in the new curriculum
which was established in 1982; and (d) adaptation of the curriculun to meet
needs of local populations.
44.       The training and textbook programs would be carried out by LNIDE,
the National Institute for Research and Education Development, wrtich -was
established under the MOE in the early 1970s.  l2NIDE requires technical
ass stance and further staffing to carry out these components or the program
and this would be provided under the proposed project.
45_       Two special adaptations of the nev school curriculum are being
designed to meet the needs of rural areas and non-Spanish speaking students.
In rural schools, a multigraded approach has been adopted and bilingual
education programs for non-Spanish speaking students, are being introduced.
A model for this program has been established in Puno for Aymara- and
Quechua-speaking children by the German Agency for Technical Cooperation
(G-TZ) and MOE. Under this program the Puno educational authorities are
teaching almost 10,000 vernacular-speaking children in grades 1-3. As part
of this project, textbooks have been developed and teachers havve received
special training.
46.       Improvement in Education Management.  The following actions are
being taken to modernize education administration and management: (a) the 25
regional directorates now being established to decentralize education
administration would receive additional Government support to strengthen
their operations; (b) the school supervision system is being decentralized to
municipal supervisory units, and their number is being reduced to ensure
efficient organization and functioning; (c) a unit to evaluate alL .inistry
departments and offices has been established within the Office of the
Minister; and (d) the MOE budgetary system is being improved with technical
assistance provided by the Ministry of Finance. This is financed, in part
under the Public Sector Management Project (Ln. 2204-PE or FY83).
Previous Bank Operations
47.       The Bank has supported the Government's education strategy through
two loans so far for education in Peru. The first education project (Loan
No. 949-PE of FY74 for $24 million) is described in para. 24. This project
suffered considerable delays as a result of the .MOE's weak project execution
capacity and slowness in defining the educational reform. The project was
completed in June 1982, except for some preparation funding for the proposed
project. About US$1 million not needed for project execution was cancelled
in 1983. The Bank's experience under this first project in dealing with the
MOE has been taken into account in the preparation of the primary education
project. A substantial amount of the preparation work for this project has
been completed prior to loan negotiations, and the project includes strong
support for the principal implementing agencies, INIED and INIDE.



- 12 -
48.       The second Bank education loan (Loan No. 2206-PE of FY83 for $17.3
million) is helping to finance the rehabilitation of the National Agrarian
University. This operation, which has been hampered by lack of counterpart
funds from the University, is just getting underway.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       This project was identified in 1981, prepared by the MOE mIth
financing under the rirst education loan, and appraised in July 1982. On the
basis of rhis appraisal, the MOE was requested to undertake further
preparation work, principally completion of final designs for project schools
and the textbook plan. The appraisal mission's report entitled -Staff
Appraisal Report-Primary Education Project (Nio. 4487d-PE of June 20, 1984)
is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a Supplementary Project
Data Sheet. Negotiations were held in Washington from June 4 to June 6,
1984. The Peruvian Delegation was headed by Mr. Douenack of the Ministry of
Economy, Finance and Commerce.
Project Objectives and Description
5u.       The objective of the project is to support the first phase of the
Government's program to improve the accessibility, quality and management of
primary education in Peru. The project would focus on ten low income urban
and ten rural areas where primary education is particuLarly deficient. In
addition, the project would strengthen the administrative and managerial
capacity of the MOE and its agencies.
51.       The project would:
(i)  provide about 1,250 classrooms in some 150 schools;
(ii) provide textbooks and other learning materials for about
300,000 students;
(iii) provide in-service training for 2,500 school principals, 1,000
regional and local supervisors and 17,500 school teachers;
(iv) develop curriculum for multigrade rural schools and support
bilingual education for Aymara- and Quechua-speaking children;
and
(v)  strengthen the operations of INIED and INIDE through the
provision of technical assistance and training and improve
MOE's budget system.
52.       School Construction and Furnishing.  This component would represent
about 78 percent of total project costs. The 1,250 classrooms to be
constructed, furnished and equipped, would provide a total of 50,000 new
student places (including 11,0UO in extensions for existing schools) that
would accommodate about 76,500 students in double shifts. About 53,500 of
these places would be located in low income neighborhoods in ten rapidly
growing urban areas (e.g. Chiclayo, Arequipa, Piura, Trujillo) and 23,000



- 13 -
places would be in poor rural areas of the same ten departments where the
urban schools are located. Sites for about 47 percent of the schools have
been selected and were reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank- Other
project school sites would also be selected in accordance with criteria
agreed with the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Improvement of School Efficiency and Quality.  Technical assistance
would be provided to improve overall school efficiency and quality through a
nuaber of actions, including the production of textbooks, in-service training
* .or school administrators, a  school management improvement program and
bilingual education and multigrade school programs. MOE would hire, by June
3G, 1985, a firm with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank
to coordinate this technical assistance (Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).  Approval by the Bank of a draft contract for the execution of
rhis program would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01 (c) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The textbook component would represent about 13 percent of total
project costs.  It would be undertaken by DIDE and would represent the first
phase of a 10-year program to provide low-cost textbooks to all public school
students_ During this first phase, 15 manuscripts (including seven that are
now ready) for the first through third grades would be field tested for one
year in at least 10 schools (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
These would then be evaluated and revised by INIDE. Oa this basis, three
million textbooks would be published and distributed through the Regional
Directorates. Besides production of the texts, the project would include
construction of a textbook warehouse and distribution costs. Unit cost of
textbooks are projected to be 50 percent of the price of commercially
produced textbooks in Peru. The cost of the textbook program would, in part,
be financed by the sale of textbooks to private schools. The Government
brought a satisfactory textbook distribution program (including the plan for
selling textbooks to private schools) to negotiations.
5-.       The in-service training component would represent five percent of
total project costs. It would consist of one week seminars for regional-and
local-level school administrators and teachers in the ten departments covered
by the project. The training program would be planned and organized by INIDE
in cooperation with the Primary Education Department of MOE and supported by
*       an internaticnally-recruited consultant.  Its objectives would be to
introduce the new textbooks and to improve (i) school administration
practices, including the planning of curriculum and school maintenance; (ii)
academic supervision practices, including teacher training; (iii) student
evaluation methods, and (iv) the utilization of community resources.
5b.       The school management improvement program, represents about one
percent of project costs and would involve the analysis of current school
admiristrative practices and the design of new procedures. The MOE would
ccntract consultants to do this first for the Chiclayo area and, on this
basis, new procedures would be developed for other regions and disseminated
through che in-service training program. The Government would, by March 31,
1986, provide the Bank with an opportunity to comment on the agreed upon
program to improve school management and would carry out that program, taking
into account any Bank comments (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
57.       The school improvement program would also support the development
of a curriculum for multigrade schools in rural areas (schools with six
grades but only one or two classrooms) and bilingual education in tne Puno
Department. The multigrade curriculum is intended for scarcely populated
rural areas where one teacher has to teach various grades simultaneously. In
order to ensure that these multigrade schools can offer the six-grade primary
school cycle, special provisions mist be made in the curriculum, teachers
must have special training and special teaching materials must be provided to
schools.  The project would finance: (a) six fellowships for three MOE staff
and three staff from the Regional Directorate in Chiclayo to visit countries
where a multigrade school curriculum has been implemented; (b) 10 months of
technical assistance for the development of the Peruvian multigrade school
curriculum; and (c) training of about 20 multigrade school teachers who would
pilot the new curriculum in their schools.
58.       The project would support the institutionalization and expansion of
the bilingual education program for 40,000 Aymara and Quechua-speaking
children in the Department of Puno. TLese children would receive education
in both their own language and in Spanish. The project would bring coverage
in the Department of Puno from its present 4 percent to 36 percent by
providing for: (i) publication and distribution of 220,000 already tested
books; and (ii) training of about 1,200 specialists and teachers, at a cost
of- USS245,000 (the GTZ assistance mentioned in para. 45 is expected to
continue throughout the 1987 school year); (iii) a feasibility study to
assess all inputs necessary to provide country-wide bilingual education to
all vernacular-speaking children. Terms of reference for the above study
have been agreed with the Bank.
59.       Strengthening XOE Administracion.  This component would account for
about two percent of total project cost. It would include the strengthening
of the textbook unit within INIDE, which would be responsible for carrying
out this part of the project.  Also, the project would include the following
technical assistance and training to improve LNIKD's operations: (a) an
analysis of the functions that could be delegated to the CORDEs, which may
construct some project schools (see para. 64); (b) training of senior staff
in management and in school construction planning and supervision; and (c)
school mapping for the second and third phases of the Government's education
program. The Government has prepared detailed terms of reference for these
studies. The presentation to the Bank of a satisfactory plan for the
in-service training of INIED staff would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 5.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       Finally, the project would support a follow-up study of the
assistance provided by the Public Sector Management Project for improving
MOE's budgeting process and information systems. In addition, the project
would finance an assessment of the computer software needed to implement a
completely automated budgeting and accounting system for the education sector
and acquisition of this software. Terms of reference for these studies would
be prepared by the MOE and the Ministry of Economy and would be sent for Bank
review and comments by June 30, 1985 (Section 3.13 of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 15 -
Project Cost and Financing
61.       Total project cost is estimated at about US$46.7 million
equivalent, of which US$12 million or 26 percent represents foreign costs.
Cost estimates are based on estimated May 1984 prices. Taxes on locally
procured furniture and civil works estimated at USS1.8 million equivalent are
included in project costs. Imported equipment and materials would be
exempted from duties. For construction, these costs are derived from recent
contracts for buildings similar to those included in the project. They take
into account the need for reinforcement against earthquake. Fellowship costs
are estimated at US$2,CO0 per staff-month. Physical contingencies are
estimated at 10 percent of base costs for construction and 5 percent of
furniture, equipment, professional service and technical assistance posts.
Price contingencies of 3.5 percent were used for 1984, 7.5 percent in 1985,
8.0 percent in 1986, 7.5 percent in 1987 and 6.0 percent for 1988 to 1991.
Local cost contingencies have been calculated in US dollar equivalents on the
assumption that variations in the exchange rate would compensate for the
difference between local and international inflation.
62.       Total financing required for the project is US$46.8 million,
including a US$67,332 front-end fee. The proposed Bank loan of US$27 million
would cover 60 percent of project costs net of taxes, including all foreign
costs and about US$15 million or 43 percent of local costs. The proposed
Bank financing of local costs is justified by (i) the important contribution
this project will make to revitalizing the primary education system in Peru,
and extending access to the low-income population; and (it) Peru's current
fiscal and balance of payments problems (see para. 17).
63.       The balance of project costs would be provided by the Government.
When completed in 1991, the proposed project is expected to generate addi-
tional recurrent expenditures of about US$7.6 million equivalent per year (at
1981 prices). This amount would represent about 1.2 percent of MOE's total
budget and 2.8 percent of MOE's recurrent budget for the primary education
subsector.
Project Execution
64.       The project would be carried out primarily by INIED and INTDE, with
the support of the MOE. The Borrower would, as a condition of effectiveness,
enter into contractual arrangements with INIED, which is an autonomous
agency, stipulating the latter's responsibility and the mechanism for
allocating funds (Sections 3.01(b) and 5.01(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement). INIDE, as a dependency of MOE, would not require a separate
agreement. INIED would delegate some responsibility for school construction
to the CORDEs in those cases where a CORDE is interested and judged capable
by the Government (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement). CORDEs in
Lambayeque, Loreto and Puno Departments have been appraised and found to be
capable of handling the work should they be contracted by the Government. A
contract satisfactory to the Bank between INIED and the participating CORDE
for construction of the schools would be a condition of disbursement of the
Bank loan proceeds allocated for construction of CORDE schools (para. 4 of
Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). About 10 staff-months of specialist
services would be required to assist INIED in construction supervision.
65.       INIDE would carry out the textbook, in-service training and
bilingual education components of the project. For the textbook and training
programs, INIDE would staff its recently organized textbook and in service
training units in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.08 of the



- 16 -
dratt Loan Agreement). The bilingual education program would continue as
presently organized under the GTZ program; however, further staff would be
added as this program expands.
66.       The primary education directorate of the MOE would help prepare the
multigrade curriculum and assist in the development of school administration
improvement measures.
67.       Specialists services (either Peruvian or foreign) would be
contracted to help carry out these programs. The project would include about
20 staff-months of consultants services, primarily for construction
supervision, training, staff management and textbook programs. All
consultants and experts would have qualifications and be hired under terms of
reference satisfactory to the BanK (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
68.       The Vice Minister of Education would have overall responsibility
for coordinating project activities. The Vice Minister would approve annual
operational and financial plans, monitor project execution and submit a bi-
annual report to the Bank. A satisfactory project director has been selected
to handle day to day matters. The director would be assisted by three to
four support staff and would act as secretary to a Project Coordinating Group
which would operate through completion of the project and would consist of
representatives of INIDE, INIED, the primary education directorate with
participation as appropriate by a representative of the Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Commerce (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). This Group
would annually review and update the project implementation schedule and
agree on the financial resources required for the project. The proposed
budgetary allocations for each coming year would be furnished to the Bank for
its review and comment by June 30 of each year, prior to submission of the
budget proposal to fiscal authorities (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
69. Procurement would be in accordance with the following table:
Procurement Method         Total Excluding
Project Category        ICB    LCB       Other    N.A.      Contingencies
(US$ millions)
Civil Works                    14.50     4.50      1.93         20.93
Furniture                      2.63      0.30                    2.93
Equipment              1.45    1.35      0.09                    2.89
Textbooks              2.10    2.10      0.06     0.20           4.46
Training                                           1.68          1.68
Technical Assistance                              9.77           0.77
Administration                                    0.70           0.7u
3.55   20.58      4.95     5.28          34.36
70.      Prior Bank review would be required for civil works contracts over
US$400,000. LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank. have been used in the
previous education loan and would not preclude foreign firms from
participating in bidding. The local construction industry is capable of
carrying out the proposed civil works, which are small and scattered.
Construction activities that would not be suitable for packaging becau--se of



- 17 -
small size, dispersed location and intended community participation would be
carried out by INIED on a force account basis. In view of the simplicity of
the furniture and much of the equipment (mostly instructional equipment), and
the differences in phasing of the execution of the project, most furniture
and equipment would be procured through LCB procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Prior Bank review would be required for equipment, furniture and
textbook contracts exceeding US$50,000. Miscellaneous furniture and
equipment items, not exceeding US$20,000 per contract, would be procured
through local shopping on the basis of three price quotations. Purcbases by
local shopping would not, in the aggregate, exceed US$75,000, or about 14
percent of estimated equipment and furniture costs, including contingency
allowances.
71.       Printing of textbooks would be contracted under LCB when more than
5,000 copies of one manuscript were required. For less than 5,000 copies,
printing would be done by INIDE and paper would be procured on the basis of
'LCB. Textbook printing contracts would include the cost of paper, textbook
graphics, printing and delivery to INIDE's warehouse. Miscellaneous printing
items (e.g. ink) would be procured through local shopping on the basis of
three price quotations and would not, in the aggregate, exceed US$50,000.
72.       Disbursement for eligible expenditures under the Bank loan would be
made over a seven year period against (i) 50 percent of total expenditures
for civil works and design and supervision services (excluding amounts
withheld for performance guarantees); (ii) 100 percent of total expenditures
for furniture, equipment, textbook materials, printing and distribution; and
Ciii) 100 percent of total expenditures for technical assistance, training
and project administration costs.
73.       Government agencies in Peru have had difficulty in executing Bank
projects because they sometimes have not had funds needed to pay contractors
and suppliers. To assure prompt payment for goods and services, the
Government would establish a working fund in the Banco de la Nacion composed
of two separate accounts: (i) a dollar-denominated Special Account in the
Banco de la Nacion into which an initial deposit of US$600,000 from the
proposed loan would be advanced and replenished from time to time as
necessary; and (ii) a soles-denominated project account in an amount
equivalent to US$400,000 also in the Banco de la Nacion. The Bank would not
deposit its advance in the Special Account until the Government had
established and deposited its funds in the project account. These accounts
would be established on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(Sections 2.02(b) and 3.01(c) and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
74.       To keep project activities moving steadily ahead so momentum is not
lost, retroactive financing of US$300,000 would be provided for: (i)
additional project preparation activities-final design of schools beyond the
30 percent completed by September, 1983; (ii) initiation of the textbook
program; and (iii) the initiation of civil works, to cover expenditures
incurred after September 1, 1983 (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
75.       This project represents the first phase of a ten-year Government
effort to assure a satisfactory primary education for all Peruvian children.
It would concentrate on low income rural and urban areas throughout the



- 18 -
country and would provide new space adequate to accommodate 76,500 students
in double shifts.  The textbook program, school curriculum development,
bilingual and school managemeut programs would improve the quality of
education for 300,000 students, including some 40,000 Aymara- and
Quechua-speaking students in the Punc area. This represents about 12.5
percent of the total public primary school population in Peru. The project
would also improve the quality of primary school and general education
program administration in Peru through technical assistance and training for
school administrators, the school construction and curriculum development
agencies and the MOE itself. This should produce a better run program that
will contribute to improved educational quality and lower costs. With this
assistance, these agencies should be well prepared to initiate the second
phase of the Government's education program-which would focus on rural
areas-in 1988.
Special Risks
76.       The principal risks that the project faces are weak administration,
which may result in slow execution, and a possible shortage of counterpart
funds during a period of financial austerity. To help assure that the
project is carried out expeditiously: (i) final designs have been prepared
for 47 percent of civil works; (ii) the MOE staff is being strengthened and
technical assistance has been included to support its operations; and (iii) a
Coordinating Group would be set up to monitor project progress. The amount
of local counterpart funds required for CY1984 and CY1985 are relatively
small, amounting to US$0.6 and US$2.05 million, respectively. The financial
requirements of the project would be reviewed annually by the Coordinating
Group, which would include a Ministry of Economy representative, to agree on
an adequate allocation of resources for the following year.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The (i) draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the
Bank; and (ii) the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Special features of the project are referred to in the text of this
report and in Annex III.
79.       Special conditions of effectiveness would be (i) preparation of a
detailed plan for training senior INIED personnel; (ii) Bank approval of a
draft contract for execution of the technical assistance program; (iii)
establishment of contractual arrangements between the Borrower and INIED
regarding the latter's participation in the project. A special condition of
disbursement for construction of schools by the Departmental Development
Corporation (CORDE) would be the execution of a contract satisfactory to the
Bank between INIED and the participating CORDE.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - ECOHENDAXION
81.       I recoumend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
C                                                         President
Washington, D.C.
June 20, 1984
r



- 20 -
ANNEX I
T AR LE 3A                                  Page  1  of 6
FEMD                  -SOCIAL TMICATS DATA SUlE?
mmU                                ItamUERECE amIpS (WEQISM AREAUSt) A
MOST                    (lDST RECENT ESTOGAIK) /b
rh     /h ~~RECEII  Mh DDE ISCOE                  DO_I! D-COK
t960-      1970- EST haTngb LAJT. ACA & CMD                  IMROPE
a    CT'USD SQ-. 
TO-71AL                          1285-2     1235.2     1285.2
ACHICLLT!RAL                     30641       299.3      305.2
GIl PER CAPIT  (S$)                 330.0       540.0     1170.0            2088.2                 2453.6
MRtY  Csina   a CAPT1A
(KrLOGRAIS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)   433.0       707.0      807.0            1407.6                  150.8
DOPMATE  NO VIT;L SITTInCS
POPLLATIOS.FID-YEAR CrHOUSANDS)   9665.0    12833.0    17031.0               ,
tRBAS POPCLATION tC OF TTrAL)     46.3        59.5       65.1              65.9                   47.8
POPLATIOs PROTECTIOICS
POrLATI0% IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                          26.3                -                      _
STATIOSARY POPULATION (MILL)                           50.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHaE                          2110
POPBLAT IOSC DENSSITY
PER Sq. R'.                      7.i        10.0       12.9              35.6                   82.0
PER SQ. 105 ACRI. LAW           31.6        42.9       54.4              93.2                  157.2
POPKLATIO% AGE STRLCTL'RE CM)
0-16 YTS                        43.6       44.3       42.4              40.1                    31.9
15-65 VHS                       52.0        51.7       54.1              55.3                   60.9
RS AND ABOVE                     4.4         3.9        3.5               4.1                    7.2
POPtLATIOS CRO0.1 RATE (2)
TOTAL                             2.5        2.8       Z6                2.3                     1.6
URBAN                             5.2        5.3        3.5               3.7                    3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)      45.5        41.5       36.3              31.5                   25.0
CRD'E DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)      1S.3        14.6       11.1               8.1                    9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTIO RATE            3.2         3.0        2.5               2.0                    1.7
FAqMLf PLArITING
ACCEPTORS. ASNUAL T ) -T---
LSERS (Z OF MARRIED WOQEE)        ..         .-          -.
FOOD AMD WURTT
INOEX OF FtOO PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     96.0       102.0       87.0             113.0                  108.4
PER CAPITA SUP?LY OF
CALORIES (2 OF aBjUIRQiESTS)    103.0      102.0       9.o              111.3                   129.6
PROTEINS (GRA2S PER DAY)        67.0        63.0       60.0              67.9                   92.3
OF HICH ANLIAL AND PLSE        29.0       26.0       25.0/c            34.1                    34.6
CHIILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE      37.9        20.2        3.9               5.3                   10.4
MULTI
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)     47.5        53.6       57.9              64.6                    67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOOS)    162.9       119.7       85.4              62.6                   71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER CtPOP)
TorAL                            14.6       35.0       48.3/d            64.8
LMRAN                           30.2        58.0       60.ofl            77.8
RURAL                            0.8         8.0       25.07i            44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DrsPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATIOS)
TOTAL                              ..       36.0       34.0/d            54.6
UPBAN                             ..        52.0       si.o7fl           69.8
RURAL                              .        16.0         ..              29.8
POPMLATION PER PHYSICIA          1910.0     1820.0     1390.0            1776.0                 1094.3
POP. PER FiRSING PERSOK         2210.0ff    720.0       690.0/d          1012.2                  762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL B0
TOTAL                           400.0      450.0      520.0/c           477.0                   334.0
UR8AS                           260.0/e    520.0      4oo.d77           667.5                   216.0
RURAL                              -      2800.0     5610.07c          1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        19.0       23.0/c            27.2                   20.0
nomnsi
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOCSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.9        4.Sg        .
URBAN                            4.8         4.9. 
RURAL                            4.9         4.6*
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROQA
TOTAL                            2.3         1.9/        .
URBAN                            2.0         1.27j
RURAL                            2.7         2.67R
ACCESS TO ELECT. ( OF DWELLINGS)
-TOAL                            26.0       32.0.
URBAN                           50.7        54.3..
RURAL                            4.2         2.7..



- 21 -
TABLE  3A                                   Page  2  of 6
PMIIU                 - SOCiAL  ICATMS DATA SNRT
PMII                               REPEZEK  SOUPS (WICDS AZAIC3S) la
MOST  (lUST Itg n ESTATE) /b
bRECENT lb       MElDDLE 11:n           DDLC lN-Cm
I960t      197OA-  ESTIMATA-    LAT. AIIRICA A CAIB
ADUSTED EFRCILNENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  83.0      105.0      112.0             105.0                   102.2
MALE                  95.0       113.0      116.0             106.3                  107.2
FPALE                 n1.0       97.0       108.0             103.6                   97.9
SECONARY: TOTAL                  15.0       30.0       56.0              40.0                    56.5
.ALE                  18.0        35.0       60.0              3J.6                   63.4
FE"ALE                13.0       26.0        53.0              41.2                   48.9
I
VOCATIONAL (? OF SECONDARY)        19.9       17.1       15.1/d            34.0                    22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          34.0       35.0       39.0              30.7                    24.7
SEEDNARY                         12.0       17.0       29.0/d            16.7                    22.1
ADULT LITERACY RAZE (Z)            61.0       72.5j&     80.0              79.5                    69.7
COsrw
PASSENCER CARS/TUOUSAID POP        8.2        18.0       19.4/c            45.6                    52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/TIOUSAND POP      113.8      161.7      165.6             228.2                   165.5
TV RECEIVERSITNOUSAND POP           3.4       30.8       51.2            10.3                    124.2
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             ..      129.4       51.5/c            64.I                    96.3
CINEMA ANNMWL ATTENOAICE/CAPITA     6.7         ..         ..               2.9                     2.9
LABOR POm
TOTAL LAUOR FORCE (TSOUS)        3025.0     3710.0     5076.0
FEKALE (PERCEUTr                 21.2       20.8       23.4              24.8                    34.5
AERIcULTURE (!IERCFNT)           32.5       48.0       39.2              31.3                    40.7
ZICUSTRY (PERENU)                19.6       18.4       18.2              23.9                   23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOrAL                            31.3       28.9       29.8              31.3                    42.0
MALE                             49.6       45.8       65.6              49.8                    55.2
FtEALE                           13.2       12.0       14.0              14.8                    29.1
ECOWNUIC DEPENDENCY RATIO          1.5         1.7        1.5               1.4                    0.9
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED SS
HICNEST 5 OP HOUSEHOLDS          39.0
HICHEST 20? OF HDUSEHOLDS        64.4       61.          ..
..CBEST 202 OF NOUSEHOLOS         2.5        1.917       .
LwEST 40 OF NOUSENOLDS            8.0
POVlM TANCET CU0W5
ESTrIATED ABOLUTE POVERTY INCRE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..      235.0/c           289.8
RURAL                              ..         ..      180.07            184.5
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INPCE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
UR8AS                              ..         ..      293.0/c           519.8
RURAL                              ..         ..      200.077           372.1                   409.0
ESTMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCrE LEVEL C(2
URBAN                              ..         ..       A9.0/c
RORAL                              ..
NOT AVAILABLE
'ar APPLICABLE
V O T E S
/a The group averages for each Indicator are population-weshted aritluetic manr. Coverme of contries asls the
lndlcators depends on avaIlabilLty of data and Is not unifora.
lb  Unless othervise noted. fData for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Dato for 1970- beteen 1969 and
1971; and data for --!ot Recent Estimate betwen 1979 snd 1981.
IC  1977; Id 197.8 /e 19f2; /f 1964; /6 1972: /h Personal Iocome within labor force.
my 19Y3



-22 -                                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 o~f
tiLFINiTiISM  Or tIL INDIC"lPl
fttaan   Alatik-Sh tha das a.  dram  Irl  ..ats   ga..-ILIp  Jndgnd in. na    glsisi.adrt*l.I   htl   2.b   aa    hita   e    c   etiPalimi
damarib   nra '. at  caltde              iI.at  5r.-ds  ad  achr.atarmml. lmm.nt. aaaa  dtiitraen     htae    lmam.itnia .9h
lb.  Mr.-ree    rnaP. sn-    ) iba aa. t.aay jr-c"a   it  mbjaca vot,yta   CZ*caay graPcia  th tanakL high,.... at tI.-n  tha.l.  r.aar  sic-ar.   lb.
subjec  tcmatfy t.tacptin. That laosa" mll tap.rier    a-P sl.-r  mglddk  macse Hak,b AU,'.a ad Ptiddla riaai   is                      1-..  h....-..-.u .ra
gilita.   Ina.vtr.                    a-P dat. the aveaa.  are:  papaiatLua Imaigbic   ritkettt seM a   attdiaa    n    ta   ci  a..ajri   .   ie.caila
srow  baa dataic  aur,al  ldlcn..    1.                      2.11cc .ag    at cartrIN.   -an  th.Ie idiatara                                                                         I..d mteaalbiiyc    aaai   .a'tiin    -c  a    eth
cgcSta  - T.ra   amra..a    m ia. adaa    s inad  -ntara   l4il.                                                P t.ymri   .maitsir      edrm  .-I .a   icdrmtntat
ccciT  ami  011   d.a.parltia.  Iar Harming                                                                                               Irren-fccatima.ltrdhcamccte ml:.
bAr"acat ...l - te";ttctniarinlart   in  andt1pecriya pMr.acacty                                               saeInd lassi   Pr.i M...aaaat  cen*rrrIrt                                           a
lar erre    naa.n  mretaa  maka   adenerM  IL.  .taia.l I-P..aana.altein
"Pt WA CAPIlTA  L=ii     - carPa.cpt   taaa    tttetcr.   rca*anika v..PL                                                        . .tcII, cr Prm.t    c.ra  .andcti           .mn       ..rita   a mi
1ibl0. 170. an  1481 dale.                                                                                    kr a tratI     ecpiac-r    ntblimaactctirermrma                                 .tda
matactG oIctt!trrlab ptA CaPITA -  -a.-I  raaicncr  a  a   anria                                                   ttctcatt    a   acmmct  a-fl..%I .m  a   ...ita t-                        ceaani
yrarver-n   cclar               tata    atI.a.nmna-P.nt)hdr.aare-.maatmt-cte.*aaie-tttchc  min  t-ateta.camnnia                                                                                     tn
maatiai.  c-e  cc m              .a.mPmit.te mat  mtetai aatt   rnem
te-a  Maiit.n    md-ari    ana                    ad a   mI.  t: t1tt. tayi. and  m-at                       .Idcaiaemrt..ii?hd     ea    iair*i.im                         .caa     .1 cIt ...a-haraa
data.                                                                            fr-n  haarttdta  chattel be rime aceter ei tc.aia.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;VE  N
Ilti                                                                                                                     P";sinIirntc  tit      at    ta'ccn   aaIrrmcmn
fta: tatnde  am  nnc  ebnerc   a  at  I=a  aprktie  tmm                                                   c.mm
aaangtamaartn ;7 llhi,--lilt, arid tIii dta.1ae.raimttt   ict.altt.r.m.crnaa.mcmctat   rre,tmrra
frcA5ayr.tiam                                                                                              iicaai.l  ctiitlaear.ipc  mdttttne  ti   bae   mr.e,arar
ra  Enia   an et. StAt -te-rm   rarcnn-mn   rnrtmnar    a-de tIra                                     a   net -m    t, A-  k-actr   rmi- me a--ac-tscntbtta at
Ill=plmmtma      g  and cIIa .at mmmem  catImm *          r t -mt                                 Wa   acatmdtrna a   clpr.nm
reta.  r-alrIct-  ra -nancr  tnr   -.tI.a"  enttce-t    ctItrrAaaenmbrctrrcunmtrc  tcha.  e-bn,an   Mrarlceaec
te.  L-AernaitaLf           tel-tti.-iheam                            -I't.rntrn                      Ltem nrreiatra.cd  ea..aicrcmctaa
capiatccna-  net,en  -aIl  tacemmtcrmai lmaa    Piaatima.raemtl. rel mt-  a  id.tittniei    neiic    t
-ear,lTh. Pa.-arata f., I              lii LL.   rcIe sian  be-a itit-  Iee.-nI.attit
caaiidalc-        nmettt                                           p-rmdt  tr.tat  n    atmatca..n   c  lrittaiL.r.ncc   inlicm-ea.  t,                                  .  la   aa 
ylai.g  nti-'aItc  takrntpm   taama.a    n   .  tme   t,                                           caaitiaa    ea            .amt e-act ri.ta ...    t m-c,    cnai.a  n      rece
r.catatnaitcta et natillty  and fattlat. i.t-;da tar     .. Pata ttctparrmae.-               at.-..   rnict-rr?Iatma    e~~i
i _in L-ar L.mannttti       Ia a . mttctr If     pa_ a!                                                               -...there    -- -rncnt
ctrntmnrntsainc   nm.c.Ti   e  cie.                       ca  e ',L  t.ttd t1t1-aeU .1                              hI at.t mntaiW aaat.caP,                                l
n-ricnaantenrracntei   srt.                                    hnalnarer.mnceulaaam                                                           faraa.lnl.ctm.c1aaeai.ncc.m.
taaTcicr   I. -      siatda i        n.taita!tie   rance   ccrttt-praar  c iai-ag   rata t mas!-ra?   m                                                                Pmadm rtmln._ Iceam
9ettat 0a . tarn4ac       tlenal.ma                                                                           --II,rma   mctcncera   adaa Kcmn--;irm          a   nee    -vt ta
pcpelaait    a -  te -ait be lracarted                                                                      Se.cidat  Iraat  ---nl.,ihn fsl      ence    c  t :ne.mdr
Pn 1yc ta -cd- -ar      )paaapc  aca -ra   tt.--Ict   Mt.aitc..tarnt 'id                                 pacd.,a a-cra.tt-maclhttcrcrtatt                                immtcrtca  icrlh
Pe  .h ., atiat1-a I lan   c (paae   ae91 abn   a    niataa    adg e.li  a.1 tiae.-IW                                                      pltL...   %
.al?m'  Itc,tat-adme.,aca.tnalaichi-catana  v-ees   i  at.adacitc-a
Pacltmndn ..      mr   mreatcttltc  01    -m.aCan-cetl                                                     mace   -ctea    iaar-t. c   airaccceaaar   reaetirrd
macacta  .aa  Imnt. cad IIIm  I'M.cLe                                                             fr.it.-cmcica-t-atm  rra"'I-'I.ennct.n-tcat td.m-tr ildm.
ChnRalanenGr-att tea. teent-ntl-t-cera                                   aeatalIlt                             merILcr- ahidncladr  aai  dcta   ytntnccitaheam   i-cr
bear  .nmlta t.. t  li.t..         tcl.admttt.taccd                                                                      ee,
rnrlatctiCtacianet  ly-n-ent  -  n-ta -daanl  taeb  rte,ct  rtma  Mmli mica.  ateimetrea I- L tearaadn tmtabac  n i-ca  acdIaitt  m
rI.ct.aa~sfrmM-i.ttcli   n    acc.5ptemam    ttl    dl   .rittaantI   tr    n    icr
Zn-ca  -cr-tn:te       nateacryde...he..a  _inaaae                            ali  traCaa ltr   ehcas
ten- masal rrradnattea relad  ifcat e       Inrnen - rrmciatsirmt                             e   aarter      e   tera.   am ie     M- A t.tae  ai   .,etar I...   Iadm-
f.t.i.rtr;aaa y  ti-rranicaedIndoIn    l~   aci                                                 trc.atca tcc. en-a   pam1h is.  1rIiaa    t  .rlttn  rraaae
yaml  Pacetr    tnea  rernea  a  cttnd e.anaI-er-catc                       -ftr.m                    rene-   ain-   me,-t)  Lbc..a  seI-atmc.:  m  tccecat...mma ..               reeie.
ac    ctrilaeern    t  cc~-  camiam,ca   mttfeenrc   ncm..  r,a. .aittcct  -ctacr   atMm                           t-crale-    .c   am-a mI-  eii.ccm
stccrrea..ed     -    Mc  mactrue-1 acmr -.cctc2I                                                                                0cn~-c.mtc                   ~-e
r,n-it as:- V:t;c%                                                                                 - i.cc.ctc-c- c   tat            : :cmnrrc   cnccm.ertd-lnsi  .ccccc"c1
.-.cZ tTcittec~-ttc.j   -e-mmt,m.  trcdnca.-1.n tcnldcc-)st                                    et    at-   t  t-mt-ta    en   .n    mea.e
fea 'nn ae     l=arta  ta.    accem.r   aeeel-r    me4ca-a'ia   rnlbceidcare     ta-c   .ctlaa-   n  Zmiitc
Par  aett  P,-r,, cat eatarem  i erra           ctn  -attae.t ti    tfPlen.tEd teen                       d?T-Ic-ak,     ittie I. Fi.-c.aa      cen.aI    tnrme-cc.m. ci ~aa
caaanaatd   agdm   adprytlg    idlnr   t d"naribitic                           -                              enl  iere. I Fnaelaui  esea                      "rrIradra'        tta   srttr
en- hEmmp-mc   leel   It--im17   n               a   aa                                                         ann nltl-.    t-   rat  i  gaac.r..n..                  Itna   lbatt.Ic  I
Pa  arat    neta   tamaIra    e    ti-   tti   aercn  per iaata                                               tlt -adeLr t               taed
nt ne ly ettci     -e dn   btnapl  a   ad   idmind   sabvcpstcpcin   aeimrtc)-rem.  ae  adtrcc-   citta5p                                                                                    a
Thia  art   Pes   crr;ha-aIL.-t-c a           Id ttIi(p data-a               y                     teaWa -at.narn-nltt -.   bi-ItdntUae  immlci-                            nda   -a-- mn-
r-Latt  Fn.amteet 1-  -    In-can naak        md,alr-pan.   aeppdt a                                         P-di.inalIatirc
data.                                                                                           lit:tcrtr t?%ThIcl??ltaa
ana.trt-- daa.em.            r-n itt d-attna; mcan,1Al  n-d  ti   dtec                                       lcaeI..dc
ardLint                                                                                           riflEman Ts-rbC- h.  -tf pi
Lim- t.r-t-ie it.1. iitN.?n 1nc9a cne   iea-a     ncamiia                                                   trtmtai83asica-.ta    prnsi-  eaeactIctreleic   n



3A1Nim  1.S  in         -. 193                                                                            sw &of 6
Q1 Fr Cqa              (0 I                              - 23 -
AM  qwb SI=Wc
-~k           1      1D     353   151      1                 19     155   1511   li 
~~~I    - ~ ~     ~    ~     AI
cic ?  Ja 1a.42                       S        U-       1        3     '    3A        -       2.     52     4.4    4.3
jkc -1.2_       41      4.6   -6      1L9    Z.4        -93V   40    8.0    5.0    5.0
TAMy 4 WOf                       5.439           .0       5.3    5.0   -LO    0.1       -32.0    2.     4.3    4.5    3.)
C. --.U.3                                         -L0    3.      43    4.0    L3         -4L2    36    5.       4.2    4.6
C&_t                              15WA             -5.6    3.5    73J    .9    2.          -99   -2.      4.9   3.e    4.6
-                                 3.5o3.          -3.5   -0.   39.519.    -1.             -M.9    3.8    6.0    6.0    6.3
_Nm af aS                         4.  S.                  15.9  -.        13    12.       -LS,  32.3  I35    5.1    Ls
-     d at  4s a            o        44           -33.    p3.    AL6    7.6    3.2        -ML2    -.      2.6    3.3    40
mO                                  2163           31.2    OA3  14.0        2     !7       -2    -3    -Z5    -3        7A
-_ -                                63.           n33   MA   137  4L9   6S.6  1,                   -      -      -      -
-d AM  ftM4                             (me oto  ~im PWM
13    s35            1      no                     113)5 154  15S 1S15s3
__     .ic   c                                                                               5.0    LB   -4.8    4.3
-oduamm                              5.5   37       7.9    9.0    961                       0.6    0.2    LS    5.0
Xnkmy & W*                           ]L0    314   ..2    3'3   33                           5.1    2.6   -2      3.9
5uimc                                 40    O5    4LO    &30 A   3.5                       635    L4   -4LZ    4.6
G-rAmti_"                                           MOA9.0 3 3S                             S.3    L     -0.7    43
GM= ymoulame13.    39.    3741  14.2   5.0                                        17.5   .7.0   -637   6.3
-wo  atO 05                          3VA    30.5   16      ".    21.0                      -7.5    6.4    1.6    2.5
rlp_t. .E GM                         16.0    M.    53      L.6   23.LS                      as   -3.    -0       3.8
QMM Ati_nd oviA    Da                                                                       L7   -Zo 6m          96
OAM5    q 4   45.7
QzMt  -i                                           31.  5L2  iS
._ Cv   ) Wor SG   ()                              4.9    9.5   4.
Capitol aI   n                                       .S    9.6   ILO
r53     z    7.5
or Qmmb   IDc c                                      .6    0.8  -1.2    4.6
or  l am" ak f         )                            LB    -M6   -3.5    Z.6
3011                                                3.8    9.    5.0    3.4
I        5                                              0.1 0     O.Z    03
Taco= Zbwticity                                     03   -L3    09       0
I4. AL ult pic=cprwj   t M&   oshi cE UK3.       at         t..ad M*SMaiu.
to hplmczd Y~a    jomt  M=
/  C couae   }aic SKIM.
Say 15. 1936



- 24_
pal      1-5 -Uum ii                                                                                   PAg 5of 6
GNP VW       NSID CL
PM
Amw  _od: smmc
oElrll;.-_ US$ atFiCD
_=a   dm
mmam~~~~3Zimag=             2               WS   273    94        -6   14A -6.    133    3A  0.                LO
p-           W        L        O       0M                  2L5   1        AA    152 lIM         LS   Z   0    43   -&
mmf_un                              720            176   75.6    1.    IL5 3L0   93    ZLS    $A               S0      OA
Nobmie                           371            -42.4    6A    ".9   3Z-5    3A   -20.3   -2          LS    20
raad                               35      z 1     QS      L2    OaP SU          1     -ll 2L         -251  -63 9   -IU
pkcet                               360           -W.   -8L  SUL3   22 aJ.                      2.6     5.  SJ        43
ffcb=  cD                     142            -        35A  50I   39.6    0.i5  -3.3  SO            6.5    6|0  6.3
atb                                M=              -3.    -19    36B9   666       9S   S0       3D0    Q1    3A       3.1
- 7 c                                      ;     f 5.0  57.0   MA 0  nnLn   8C,J   75A    7J.9  W  S      NL6    IeD.3 
ePsicm  90.4                               SLO   gz          o mA  t         90A    9 L3 9L         M      D       TT%ms
Mom of Mme0d                                    7"      BIE MA3 9"            M       M        0  gl.7 JMJU    9D2
i0    't975   M              i            S-7- LW54W10. S0-
BW)LTB                     ~~~~IOlQ   IOQO   0   U       MM6iI  &6  1>                         21
fta          9<                          0    =0 Wa         O   8LI               -78,05  9.1    3.Z    0.
j, F.                                  3      8A &   ZL3      -9  2ZL0            183   AL2    -4.       LO
Foodt                            ~~~~~7.0   12='    I903              6.9      2      i      3
Pe s                     lL0D    Ll0    La    Ls                                 35J   -Z^        O    4.3
1cio  ad Eqcos                              3L0D   37J0   37.8SL                 2!L3   -L9   -42    6.3
ot                                            a    5L0  45D 6S A"         S2            -63    -24      3.2
aw of Uw  im          5 bf  cE 2c- toft                       hm EMd wt
Gowr_-s          D _       ekf  Gaui  (            Cat-  bow    Oa          CK
L970    197       191        two0   I!R         I9         MIO    I9S        IM
ZmE  (F mm
IR,                         ~~~81   5Sw6   65.9           8L9   2LO    26               0.5    LO    LA
TBFOM                       ~~77.3   7Sv9   79J           2L6   I"z  1MA                LO    46    0.9
I",  Lt gZas me f[wL74
iuAe7
May 29, lva&



Ii =zi  E    M             MUuNPl            IS  Iie        [Si ii
ii     [8h  tu'IES uu,,                      n    w,"@u1                  .gf 
V   iCbB    i        lliil}ll8rt t    a8i     dlii                              1
| LLL>.L  ?a                                    jJwwli  eEEIS;  NSW {1  lSlS1&1   2|  i    
t4w Wll         LlSil 
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZQgs f lSf 
~~~~~~~t  b4&g   b                                   R! 
~~~~~~~C  3iWgb"Wi



-26-                         ANNEIIX
rage I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERIIOS IN PEicI
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LANS (as of March 31, 1984) 1/
Amoamt
Loan                                                       (less cancellations)
Number     Year           Borrower            Purpose        Bank    Undisbursed
-   US$ million  -
32 loans fully disbursed                                     561.2
1196       1976    Republic of Peru       Transport           76.5         7.9
1403       1977    Republic of Peru       Agriculture         25.0        12.4
S-11       1978    Republic of Peru       Preinvestment        8.8         0.8
1771       1980    Republic of Peru       Irrigation          56.0        33.9
1806       1980    PETROPERU              Petroleum Prod.    32.5          6.5
1812       1980    Republic of Peru       Rural Dev.          15.0        10.0
1"88       1980    Republic of Peru       Preinvestment        7.5         3.8
S-19       1980    SIDERPERU              Technical Asst.      5.0         3.6
1963       1981    CORPAC                 Aviation            58.0        55.7
1968       1981    COFIDE                 Industry            60.0        35.4
2018       1981    ELECTROPERU            Power               25.0        19.9
2064       1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry             26.0        16.8
2091       1982    Republic of Peru       Transport           93.0        87.8
2117       1982    PETROPERU              Industry             5.3         5.U
2139       1982    SEDAPAL                Water Supply        40.6        36.s
2150       1982    Republic of Peru       Agriculture         40.6        36.3
2179       1982    ELETROLIMA             Power               81.2        74.4
2195       1982    PETROPERU              Petroleum           81.2        78.3
2204       1982    Republic of Peru       Technical Asst.    10.2          4.9
2208       1982    Republic of Peru       Education           17.3        17.U
2211       1982    Republic of Peru       Health              33.5        32.4
2219       1982    Republic of Peru       Rural Develop.      30.0        24.6
2302       1983    Republic of Peru       Agriculture        130.0       122.6
Total                                                 1,519.4
of which has been repaid                              236.3
Total now outstanding                                 1,283.1                         )
Amount sold                          18.3
of which has been repaid           18.3                 -
Total nw  held by Bank                                1,264.8
Total undisbursed                                                  726.8
=
1/ on March 27, 1984 the Board apprtoved a US$40 million loan for the Chanchamayo-
Satipo Rural Development Project and on June 21, 1984, it approved a US$82.5
million loan for the Lima Metropolitan Development Project.



- 27-                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   STA7EMENT OF IFC INVESrHENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Type of
Year               Obligor                     Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.       Home Appliances   0.2       -      0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.    Bricks              0.3      -      0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru. S.A.          Building
Materials         0.3      -      0.3
1960; 1962 Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers        4.1       -      4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.            Cenent            2.3      0.2     2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo       Cement             1.1    0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.      Mining            15.0      -     15.0
1978/83     Cia. de M1na  Buenaventura      Mining            6.0      0.5     6.5
1980       Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.            Mining            2.7      0.5     3.2
1981        Sogewiese                       Leasing            3.0     0.1     3.1
1981        Consorcio Energetico de         Power
Huancavelica                  Transmission       4.5      -      4.5
1982       Palmas del Espino                Palm Oil          15.0      -     15.0
Total gross commitments                           54.5     1.8    56.3
less canceliations, terminations,
repayments and sales                         40.6      0.6    41.2
C                  Total held by IFC                                 13.9     1.2    15.1
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                            4.4      -      4.4
1982 1/    Sociedad Minera
Gran Bretana S.A.             Mining             3.0     0.5     3.5
1984 2/    Compania Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha                  Mining            4.0       -      4.0
1/ Approved by Board on July 6, 1982, but not yet signed.
2/ Approved by Board on March 13, 1984 but not yet signed.



- 28 -
ANNEK III
Page 1 of 2
PERUJ
PRDIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: 26 months
(b) Project prepared by: Government with assistance of consultants.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: June 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: June/July 198Z
fe) Completion of Negotiations: June 1984
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness: December 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) As conditions of loan effectiveness the Government would (i) prepare a
detailed plan for the INIED training program satisfactory to the Bank; (ii)
obtain Bank approval of a draft contract for executioa of the technical
assistance program, and (iii) make contractual arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank with INIDE regarding its functions in the project and the
mechanism for allocating funds (paras. 59, 53, and 64, respectively);
(b)  all schools to be financed under the project would be located according to
criteria agreed upon with the Bank and all textbooks would be field tested
also in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank (paras. 52 and 54);
(c) the Bank would be furnished, by March 31, 1986, and be given an opportunity
to comment on the recommendations developed on school administrative
practices; the agreed upon recommendations would be put into operation
(para. 56);
(d) INIED would enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with
iuterested CORDEs which are judged to have the required capacity for the
construction of schools in those areas before disbursement of loan
resources for those schools (para. 64);
(e) qualified staff would be selected and retained for the textbook and
in-service training units of INIDE (para. 65);



- 29 -
(f) the Government would create a project Coordinating Group which would
include representatives of INIDE, INIED, the primary education directorate
and, when appropriate, the Ministry of Economy, and this Group would review
the project implementation schedule and prepare a budget proposal to be
sent to the Bank for comment by June 30 of each year (para. 68) and
(g)  Special Accouat for the project to be established, and a revolving fund for
local contributions to be set up and US$400,000 deposited by the Government
prior to the Bank's provision of the initial deposit from loan resources.






