Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4487 d-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION II)
June 20, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(May 15, 1984)
Currency Unit   =   Sol. Peruano (S/)
US$1       =   S/3,025
S/l,OO ,OOO      =   US$331
MEASURES
1 kilometer          0.62 mile
1 meter              3.28 feet
ABBREVIATIONS
CARE      -    Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CEB       -    Basic Education Center
CECABE    -    Center for Professional Training
COPO      -    "Cooperacion Popular" program for school building
CORDES    -    Departmental Development Corporations
ECIEL     -    Joint Latin American Studies on Economic Integration
EPPA      -    Public Promotional Enterprise for Handicraft Industries
ESEP      -    Upper Secondary School for Professional Education
GTZ       -    German Agency for Technical Cooperation
INIED     -    National Institute of Education Infrastructure
INIDE     -    National Institute of Research and Education Development
IDB       -    Interamerican Development Bank.
MOE       -    Ministry of Education
NEC       -    National Education Council
ORDES     -    Regional Development Organizations
SENATI    -    National Service for Industrial Training
SENCICO   -    National Service for Construction Industry Training
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Academic Year
April 1 - December 20



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA ...................................................           i
I.    INTRODUCTION         .      ....................                   I1
II.   MAIN ISSUES IN PRIMARY EDUCATION ....... ..........                2
Overview ...............................................          2
A.  Few Children Finish Primary Education   ,....                 3
Late Entrance to School............. .........             3
School Absenteeism..... .oo .. . ,. . ... .............. .  3
Inadequate Physical Facilities.............,...            5
Inadequate Evaluation System                                5
Language Problemsobm..... o...... o..... o.o                5
Poor Economic Conditions of the Families .........          5
Consequences.. ...  ....  . ...                             6
B.  Learning Achievement Levels are Low ...... ......             6
Deficient School Management............... ................  6
Unqualified Teachers............... ...... ...o .... .      7
Inadequate Teaching Materials.......o. ........            8
Frequent Changes of Curricula ....................          9
C.  Education Management is Weak .....................            9
Overview ....... reseve@@svos**@ ..... ........ ........... o.f.o......  9
Organizational Problemso ..............                     9
Staffing Problems ..... ............ ............-        10
Financial Problems ... ,..o... ......... .   ...... ,..    11
Possible Solutions..o..       .. .o.o..... ...... . f . . .  12
III.  GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY .....................          12
A.  Provide Sufficient Student Places as..       .......         12
B.  Improve Quality and Efficiency..o......o..........           15
C.  Improve Education Management..o .................            16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Peru in July 1982 and on discussions with MOE authorities during a
post-appraisal mission of September 1983. The appraisal mission consisted of
A.Cespedes (Senior Educator, mission leader), S. Apergis (Senior Economist),
R. Corradine (Facility Planner), H. Martinez (General Educator), N. Dutcher
(Bilingual Education Specialist), and A. de Guzman (Textbook Specialist,
Consultant). A contribution on the auditing system of the MOE was made by
Mr. J. Graves (LCP).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



table of Contents (Continued)
Page
IV.   THE PROJECT  .. ...... . . .............                      16
A.    Overview.o.  ..........................                 16
B.  Objective 1:  Provision of Sufficient and
Adequate Student Places ........         17
C.  Objective 2:  Improvement of School Efficiency
and Quality ............ ............    19
D.  Objective 3:  Improvement of Management ........ o-    24
E.  Summary of Technical Assistancey....................    26
V.  MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION.......... .  o.... .. ....    28
A.  Project Organization. ........ . ........ -. ......... .    28
B.  Textbook Program Organization.....o.......... - ......    31
C.  Staffing Plans ............. . -              . . ..... o..    31
D.  Implementation ......... ...  ...... 0.    .....          33
Professional and Technical Services .......... .  34
Procurement .......     ..       ......... . ........ .    34
Working Fund      ................. .    35
Accounting and Auditing...........o...........o ....    35
E.  Status of Readiness ..     .  . ....       ...... ... .    36
F.  Implementation Schedule   ...................... o-oo    36
VI.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS.........o.....    37
A.  Project Costs ................ . .. .....   ....         37
Base  Cost0*0.*.0..*..0 ............  ....... 00        37
Contingency Allowances ...................... ..   37
Foreign Exchange Cost  ......... o ..............    40
Duties  and  Taxes ..... ................       .... ..  40
Recurrent Expenditures......................           40
B.  Financing Plan. ....... . @ , .....     ....... .    41
C.  Disbursements ..... ...0..........  41
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................ ............    43
Benefits ............   43
Risks ..                          ......................  44
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........    44
TABLES
Table 2.1   Primary Education (1981)
Table 2.2   Average Promotion, Repetition and Dropout Rates (1977-1981)
Table 2.3   Enrollment Rates by Age (1979)
Table 2.4   Education Expenditures in Relation to GDP and Total
Government Expenditures



Table of Contents (Continued)
TABLES (Continued)
Table 3.1     School Construction Program
Table 4.1     Peru: Physical Facilities by City
Table 4.2     Phasing of Textbook Development and Production
(1984-1993)
Table 4.3     Summary of Technical Assistance
Diagram 5.1   Project Organization
Diagram 5.2   Textbook Program Organization
Table 6.1     Summary of Project Cost by Project Element
Table 6.2     Summary of Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
Table 6.3     Expected Price Increases during Project Implementation
Table 6.4     Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
ANNEXES
1.    Comparative Education Indicators
2.    The Education System
3.    School Textbook Needs
4.    Puno Bilingual Textbook Program
5.    In-service Training Programs
6.    Implementation Schedule
7.    Project Incremental Recurrent Costs by 1987
8.    Selected Documents Available in the Project File






BASIC DATA
(1983)
Adult Literacy Rate                                               90%
Net Enrollment Ratios
Pre-school (3-5 years)                                      32%
Primary (6-11 years)                                        90%
Secondary (12-16 years)                                     47%
Higher Education (17-23 years)                              16%
Language of Instruction: Spanish
(Vernacular-Speaking Children: 30%)
Educational Finance (1980)
% of Total Public Expenditures Devoted to Education    14.3%
Educational Expenditures as % of GDP                       3.6%
Per Capita Expenditures on Education                      US$35






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank Group has supported education development in Peru through
two projects (Loans 949-PE for US$24 million and 2208-PE for US$17.3
million). The First Project, under Loan 949-PE, assisted the government in
introducing work-oriented curricula into secondary education. Thirty-five
(35) schools were built with 31,000 student places. Following efforts to
solve project implementation problems (weak administration of the project
unit, delays in the definition of the post-secondary vocational curricula and
bureaucratic procedures blocking the use of funds allocated for technical
assistance), the project was completed on June 30, 1982. The Higher
Education Project, under Loan 2208-PE, is now being implemented as
scheduled. It is assisting the government in accelerating the development of
Peru's agricultural sector by improving the National Agrarian University
facilities and quality of instruction.
1.02      The present Government of Peru, which took office in mid-1980 has
formulated a new set of education policies and objectives. On May 18, 1982,
a law was passed modifying the educational structure. The structure now
comprises two years of preschool, six years of primary, five years of
secondary, and four to six years of higher education. Primary education
continues to be free and compulsory for 6-11 year-olds. Secondary education
(12-16 year-olds) has been subdivided in two cycles: one for two years of
basic education, the other for three years of diversified education. The
ESEPs (Upper Secondary Schools for Professional Education) are being
converted into post-secondary technical institutes, and students do not need
to enroll in these schools as a prerequisite for entering higher education
institutions. The education law has also decentralized the country's school
supervision system by establishing supervisory units at the municipal and
provincial levels. Finally, the law established a National Education Council
in charge of policy-making.
1.03      The new government has given priority to primary education.
Accordingly, it has submitted a request for a loan to improve and to expand
primary education. The proposed loan--US$27 million to cover 60% of the
net-of-tax estimated total project cost of US$45 million--would directly
support the first three-year phase of a ten-year education program which aims
at:
(a) providing sufficient and adequate student places for school-age
children;
(b) improving the quality of primary education; and
(c) improving primary education management.
1.04      The proposed project is recommended for Bank financing mainly
because:
(a) the project would address the main problems of primary education in
the marginal urban areas and poor towns and villages of selected
departments;



(b) it would finance implementation of major education policies
concerning: (i) language of instruction for the non-Spanish
speaking population; (ii) production and distribution of school
textbooks; and (iii) a decentralized supervisory school system; and
(c) it would strengthen the government's administrative capacity in
needed units of the MOE.
II. MAIN ISSUES IN PRIMARY EDUCATION
Overview
2.01      This chapter focuses on the issues and features of primary
education mainly because (a) the development of this subsector has been given
a high priority by the government and (b) the iissues concerning other
subsectors (secondary, vocational and higher eduacation) are in part being
addressed through the projects mentioned in Chapter I or will be addressed by
future operations of the Bank or other external aid agencies (IDB, USAID,
UNDP, UNESCO). Table 2.1 gives an overview of the primary education
subsector. In 1981 this subsector comprised 3.2 million students,
accommodated in 21,000 schools and taught by 86,000 teachers. About 450,000
children were not attending school. Annex I presents the comparative
education indicators. Annex 2 shows the structure of the system in Peru.
Table 2.1 PRIMARY EDUCATION (1981)
Private
Public Sector          Sector
Urban &
Urban       Rural        Rural       Total
Enrollment                      1,621,266   1,175,054    419,002   3,215,322 a/
Estimated Net Enrollment t%)            -            -           -           83
Schools (Complete and
Incomplete)                        3,936       14,821      2,224       20,981
Incomplete Schools (with
less than six grades)                680        8,500          20       9,200
Teachers                           42,915       30,196      13,138      86,249
Classrooms                         43,300       40,020      13,000      96,320
Students/School                       412           79         188          153
Classrooms/School                      11            2.7         6            4.6
Students/Classroom                     37           29          32          33
33 Students/School Group               50           39          NA          44
Teachers/School                        11            2           6            4
Students/Teacher                       38           39          32           37
Area M2/Student                          1.14        1.40       NA            1.24
Service Personnel/School                0.48         0.02       NA            0.13
a/  Approximately 450,000 youngsters (ages 6-11) were not enrolled in 1981.
Sources: MOE-Estadisticas de la Educacion-1981 (Cifras provisionales), Lima,
Peru. MOE-Indicadores Zonales, Direccion de Estadistica, Unidad de
Estudios y Analisis Estadisticos, Lima, Peru, 1980.



- 3 -
2.02      There were some significant developments in education in the
1970s. During that time gross enrollment at the primary level increased by
35% (from 2.3 million in 1970 to 3.2 million in 1981). As can be noted in
Table 2.1, well over 13% of this enrollment is attending private sector
schools. At present the net enrollment rate, in both public and private
sector schools, is 83%, which is about average compared with other countries
in the region. However, there are still major issues confronting the
Peruvian primary education system:
(a) few children finish primary education;
(b) children do not learn enough and the achievement levels of those
who graduate are poor; and
(c) the Ministry of Education is not adequately organized, staffed or
financed to deal with the above-mentioned issues.
A. Few Children Finish Primary Education
2.03      Although most children (95%) have initial access to primary
education, only 56% of the students who enroll in first grade finish the
six-year program. This problem is particularly acute in the country's poor
urban and rural areas. The low completion rate is caused by high repetition
and dropout. Thirty percent of the students registered in 1981 were
repeaters. On the average, about 37% of the children repeat first grade
(Table 2.2). Repetition rates for the second, third, and fourth year are
higher than 20%. Moreover, about 45% of the children who started first grade
in 1975 dropped out before entering sixth grade. On the average, 4% of the
children drop out in each grade before completing the school year. In
addition, 4% of those who are promoted do not enroll the following year.
2.04      High repetition and dropout rates are caused by: (a) late entrance
to school; (b) school absenteeism; (c) inadequate physical facilities; (d) an
inadequate evaluation system; (e) language problems; and (f) poor economic
conditions of the families.
Late Entrance to School
2.05      Late entrance to school is a major cause for dropping out before
finishing primary education. More than half of the first-grade children are
overage, and approximately 10% are ten years or older (Table 2.3). As a
result, in a typical Peruvian school less than 35% of the students are
attending the grade which corresponds to their age. Children who start
school at a late age do not remain long enough to complete their primary
education either because they have to start working or because they feel
out-of-place when confined with younger children.
School Absenteeism
2.06      On a daily average, 15% of the children are absent from urban
schools and 30% of the children are absent from rural schools. After being
absent from school, children seldom receive remedial help from their
teachers. Since they have neither textbooks nor facilities to study on their
own, children who miss school get far behind in their school work and fail to
pass the final exams.



-4-
Table 2.2 AVERAGE PROMOTION, REPETITION AND DROPOUT RATES (1977-1981)
kin percent)
Grade          1        2        3        4      5        6
Promotion  a!    59        70       73       76      84      91
Repetition        37       26       23       20      13        6
Drop out b/         4       4        4        4       3        3
a/ Children who pass do not necessarily enroll the
following year.
b/ Children who drop out before ccompleting the school year.
Source: Bank estimates
Table 2.3: ENROLLMENT RATES BY AGE (1979)
(in percent)
Grades
Age          1        2        3         4        5        6
5 yrs.         4
6 yrs.        42        5
7 yrs.        24       35        4
8 yrs.        13       25       32         4
9 yrs.         9       15       24        31         5
10 yrs.         3        8       15       22        30         5
11 yrs.         2        5       10        15       23        28
12 yrs.         1        3        7        12       16        24
13 yrs.         2        4        8        16       26        43
Source: Bank estimates.



-5-
Inadequate Physical Facilities
2.07      The tendency in Peruvian primary schools is to have small
classrooms, with small windows, poor lighting and insufficient space for
children's work. Moreover, classrooms tend to be unfurnished and poorly
maintained. It is estimated that about 40% of the existing public schools
need major repairs, and that only 2% of the schools do not need any repairs.
In addition, about one-third of the children (about 1.0 million) do not have
desks or chairs. This lack of appropriate physical facilities results in
children not being able to follow the lessons when they have no space to
work, and not being able to do their school work when they have no place to
sit and write.
2.08      The inadequacy of the physical facilities is compounded by
overcrowding. About 80% of urban classrooms are crowded. There are no data
on rural crowding, but field observations reveal that often 70 children share
the same classroom with one teacher, which is particularly noted in the
incomplete rural schools (see Table 2.1 above). In this situation, teachers
are forced to concentrate on teaching the average students, leaving the slow
learners behind and giving them no opportunities to catch up with the group.
Slow learners are thus likely to be repeaters or dropouts year after year.
Inadequate Evaluation System
2.09      The government established an evaluation committee in 1981 and
evaluation guidelines were distributed to the teachers. Despite these
efforts, the promotion system is still haphazard: children who should be
promoted are often forced to repeat, and children who should repeat may be
promoted. This situation is aggravated by the fact that there are no
standardized exams, comparisons among outcomes from different schools or
educational research covering evaluation variables and procedures in Peru.
This is so because the MOE evaluation department employs inadequately trained
tectnicians who have little experience in testing procedures.
Language Problems
2.10      About 30% of the Peruvian school children are native speakers of
vernacular languages. Vernacular-speaking children have great difficulty in
learning in the Spanish-medium classroom, which more than 96% of them
attend. Often they do not adjust to the Spanish language schools. As a
result, most of the non-Spanish-speaking children do not complete primary
education or acquire fundamental literacy and numeracy.
Poor Economic Conditions of the Families
2.11      Many youngsters do not complete six years of schooling because they
lack financial resources. Approximately 30% of the total Peruvian popullation
lives under conditions of absolute poverty, i.e., earning incomes that do not
permit the consumption of an adequate volume of food and non-food basic
items. I/ A. a result, parents are often unable to finance the direct and
indirect costs of six years of schooling. Direct costs, which include
1/   World bank Report 34-38-PE "Major DevelopmenL Policy Issues a1id
Recommendations," April 27, 1981.



-6-
clothes, shoes, books and transportation, are estimated to be US$20 per child
per year. Indirect costs include the need oi poor parents for the services
and labor of their children.
Consequences
2.12      Incomplete primary education results in high illiteracy rates.
Illiteracy limits the social, political and cultural development of
individuals and their communities. It also limits access to further
education and middle and high-level occupations, and reduces possibilities
for ascending the job ladder for those who find jobs. Moreover, farmers and
self-employed urban workers who are illiterate may have little chance to be
efficient in their activities. Their inability to read and write reduces the
possibility of utilizing modern production and marketing techniques.
B. Learning Achievements are Low
2,13      Children in Peruvian schools do not learn enough and the
achievement levels of those who graduate are poor. Although documentation on
achievement in Peru is scarce, the few studies and field observations
available reveal that completion of primary school in Peru does not assure
functional literacy. On a scale of 0-20, the average reading level of urban
sixth grade students was 14.5 and that of rural students only 7.6.  Science
achievement was 13.3 for urban students and 8.5 for rural students. 2/
2.14      Low achievement can be attributed to:  (a) deficiencies in school
management; (b) unqualified teachers; (c) lack of consumable teaching
materials and textbooks; and (d) frequent changes of curricula.
Deficient School Management
2.15      Deficient school management is an important factor determining low
achievement levels in Peruvian schools. School management explains 40% of
the variance found among science achievement scores, and 25% of the variance
found among reading scores. 3,
2.16      Among the school management variables that have been shown to
affect learning achievement one finds:
(a) Use of class time: The amount of class time spent on teacher
explanations is negatively associated with student achievement in
Peru, particularly because of rigidly organized classroom periods.
Therefore, less formal classroom time should be encouraged in
public schools. Teachers should be trained to program their time
so that they can improve their produlctivity;
2/   Data from ECIEL (Joint Latin American Studies on Economic Integration).
3/   Arriagada, Anamaria.  Determinants of Sixth Grade Student Achievement in
Peru. (Washington, World Bank, Education Department, January 1983)
(mieo).



- 7 -
(b)  Remedial Programs.  Remedial programs have been shown to have a
major effect on reading achievement. However, few public schools
have any such programs. Teachers who lecture large classes should
be encouraged to organize children's work so that they can spend
more time with slow learning children while fast learners are
working on their own;
(c)  Rate of absenteeism:  Better organized schools have better control
of student attendance; and
(d)  Criteria of class groupings:  Students in more homogeneous age
groups learn more than students in heterogeneous age groups.
2.17      Finally, the above-mentioned management variables which have an
impact on student achievement are present at different organizational
levels. Some are at the classroom level and are thus handled by the
teachers. Others are at the school administration level and are handled by
school principals. Still, others are at the departmental levels and are
handled by supervisors and departmental administrators. Clarity in defining
decision-making levels and formulation of specific programs at each level
would lead to improvements in school achievement levels in Peru.
Unqualified Teachers
2.18      About three-fourths of primary school teachers have graduated from
normal schools with four years of post-secondary education. This norm is
high compared with the rest of the region, where primary school teachers
are only secondary school graduates. The reasons why Peru's teacher training
needs are not fully met are that: (a) there is an inadequate supply of
teachers for rural areas (30% of teachers in those areas are unqualified)
mainly because the normal schools were closed in 1976 (following a government
policy of cutting off an over-supply of teachers in the mid-1970s) and only
reopened in 1981; (b) there has been no pre-service teacher training in
bilingual education, which is badly needed for most of the rural teachers;
(c) there are no stable policies for in-service training, incorporating the
experiences gained by INIDE (the National Institute of Research and Education
Development); and (d) the unit in the MOE in charge of coordinating teacher
training is understaffed.
2.19      In 1982 approximately 5,000 teachers who had no formal training
were appointed to teach in rural areas. It was necessary to hire these
unqualified teachers because of the reason explained in para. 2.18(a). It is
expected that during 1983/1984 approximately 12,000 untrained teachers will
be appointed. The government will need to provide opportunities for
in-service training for all of them.
2.20      The lack of stable policies for teacher training has affected the
quality of teaching. In-service teacher training programs have been
subjected to radical changes both in their coverage targets and in their



8-
content. In the early 1970s, the training content emphasized increasing the
level of political awareness and political organization to allow teachers to
participate fully in the process of social ciange.  In 1976, the political
orientation of the courses was no longer sponsored by the government, thus
few courses were offered from 1976 to 1979. In the 1980s, teacher training
has been given a high priority, and various clivisions in the MOE were
designated with the task of promoting the training of teachers with varied
orientations. These changes in the quality and in the curricula of teacher
training courses have had a negative impact on teaching practices. Teachers
have not been allowed sufficient time to beccime skillful in any one of the
areas they have been trained in and their formal training has not always been
geared towards improving their classroom methods. Basic topics such as the
teaching of reading or techniques for multigrade teaching and methods for
meeting the needs of non-Spanish speaking children have not been covered.
2.21      Although there are several agencies in charge of various aspects of
teacher training, each university, normal school and MOE office makes
decisions as to the content and the length of the course offered. Nobody
coordinates these teacher training programs. As a result, teachers are
exposed to a wide variety of topics, not always related to their main
concerns and not always helpful for improving their teaching methodologies.
Moreover, the same teachers take the same courses year after year. Various
research papers have been produced by INIDE and a good diagnosis of the
problem has been advanced. However, weak links between INIDE, the MOE
offices and the Regional Directorates, as well as lack of funds, have
prevented INIDE from having a more direct and a more effective impact on the
training courses offered throughout the country.
Inadequate Teaching Materials
2.22      Learning Materials.  There are shortages of basic learning
materials, i.e., pencils and paper, in Peruviian classrooms. The cost of
these materials is US$15 per student per year, but the government does not
appropriate funds for them. Moreover, parents usually cannot afford them.
The absence of these teaching materials minimizes student participation in
the learning process. Classrooms constitute an impoverished learning
environment, with only a map, some charts or similar learning aids. There
are no other resources to stimulate children's learning and to help them in
understanding and remembering basic facts.
2.23       Textbooks.  Two-thirds of the Peruvian school children do not have
use of even one textbook (the norm is that each student ought to have at
least one book). Rural teachers do not use textbooks because there are none
in rural areas.  In addition, there are virtually no teachers' manuals or
guides, keys to correction, achievement test samples or professional
literature. Moreover, efforts to distribute textbooks have failed due to
lack of adequate distribution plans and lack of appropriate warehouses.
Annex 3 outlines Peru's textbook needs for grades 1-4. No assessment has
been conducted for the needs of grades 5-6.
2.24       Not having textbooks implies that children cannot develop good
reading skills or acquire reading habits that will allow them to continue
learning when they leave school. In addition, practice and drill exercises
consume valuable time when children copy in their notebooks all the



- 9 -
instructions and illustrations that are usually supplied in the textbook.
The lack of books creates a passive and dull atmosphere at school, increasing
the absenteeism and dropout rates of children.
Frequent Changes of Curricula
2.25      During the last decade, there have been frequent changes in Peru's
primary curriculum (1972, 1974, 1980, 1982). As a result, many children have
been subject to more than one program of study. These drastic changes in
curricula affect learning achievements of students in the following ways:
(a)  the development of literacy, numeracy and language skills is
affected when the graded sequence in which the topics are taught is
changed and children must adapt to a different sequence; and
(b)  teachers are expected to know the new content; however, since this
is not the case, and since no training has taken place, teachers
skip the subjects they do not know.
2.26      In order to overcome these difficulties, the government has planned
to keep the present curriculum for at least six years so that children
following it will be evaluated at the end of their primary education course.
Time will then be allowed for adjustments, modifications and the sequential
introduction into the classrooms.
C. Education Management is Weak
Overview
2.27      The new education law (para 1.02) will encounter major obstacles if
measures are not taken to improve the managerial capacity of the Ministry of
Education (MOE). The Ministry's organizational, staffing and financial
problems are discussed in sequence below and possible solutions are briefly
outlined.
Organizationl Problems
2.28      The responsiblities of the central, regional and local administra-
tion offices are not clear. The new education law abolished the nucleariza-
tion system and a new structure for education administration has been
prepared by the MOE. Under this new structure the education system will be
administered at four levels:
(a) national policy-Waking, by the National Education Council
(NEC); 4/
(b) national-level administration, by the MOE;
4/   The NEC has seven members (Article 126 of Law 23384 of May 1982),
representing the President of the country, the university council,
scientific and cultural organizations, public and private schools,
PTAs, and teachers' unions.



- 10 -
(c)  regional administration, by MOE regional offices  which are being
established in each one of the 25 clepartments including Lima; and
(d)  school supervision, by the local supervision offices being estab-
lished to replace the school nuclei at the provincial/municipal
level.
2.29      Since the new operational guideline!s for these offices are still in
the design process, confusion occurs at all levels of education management.
The NEC has not advised the MOE on policy matters. Moreover, horizontal and
vertical coordination is weak among offices in the education sector.
Coordination among MOE officers of the same rank is weak and vertical
coordination among several levels is almost non-existent. Delegation of
authority from the MOE central headquarters to the regions is virtually
absent and regional directors report to all 25 MOE major offices with little
coordination. Similarly, supervisors and school principals report to local
provincial directors and regional directors, as well as to the MOE central
offices.
2.30      The poor use of available computer systems further aggravates the
management weaknesses of the education sector. Although the MOE has rented
equipment, the existing files are incomplete; therefore, administrative
matters that could be fully automated are still partially done manually. The
budget accounting process, which has just been partially computerized, needs
to be synchronized with other programs. For accounting purposes, the
computer is being used as a printing machine which provides computer-printed
lists but does no processing. Similarly, payroll, which is a major task in
the MOE since 180,000 staff are paid monthly, is only partially
computerized. Since the personnel file is incomplete, monthly salary
additions or deductions are manually calculated and the computer is only used
to print paychecks. The experience gained through implementation of the
Public Sector Management Project under Loan 2204-PE is being utilized to
overcome these problems.
2.31      In summary, there is poor coordination and lack of delegation of
authority among the various administrative levels concerned. This is
compounded by a lack of initiative to use modern technologies efficiently.
Therefore, there are two major consequences emerging from this situation:
(a) the system continues to be inadequately managed, and (b) the human
resources available in the regions are underutilized.
Staffing Problems
2.32      The MOE faces three major staffing problems:  (a) lack of trained
managers; (b) poor salaries; and (c) uneven d:istribution of the education
staff between Lima and the regions. Education administrators are, for the
most part, either teachers or liberal-arts graduates who have received no
training in administration. This situation is aggravated by the low civil
service salaries which lately have lagged behind inflation and do not allow
for recruitment of trained managers. To compensate for this, staff have been
promoted to higher posts, resulting in higher level staff not always having
the qualifications required for their jobs. In addition, most of the MOE
specialists in curriculum development, education planning and evaluation are
located at headquarters (50-60 persons), leaving the regions with only



- 11 -
supervisory staff. The majority of the regions lack specialists in
curriculum, evaluation, education planning, and bilingual education and have
mostly school supervisors who are usually too overburdened with
administrative work to carry out their own duties.
Financial Problems
2.33      Education has been in continuous financial difficulties as the
result of the drastic reduction of its share in public expenditures. While
in 1965 education (MOE budget only) absorbed 25% of total central government
revenues, in 1975 it absorbed 17%, and in 1982 (after a temporary increase in
1980 and 1981) 11% or, in real terms, less than in 1970. Expressed as a
percentage of GDP, the corresponding figures were 5% in 1965, 3.7% in 1975
and 2.5% in 1982 (Table 2.4).
Table 2.4: EDUCATION EXPENDITURES IN RELATION TO
CDP AND TOTAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES
1965   1975    1982
Education expenditures in relation to GDP (%)           5.0    3.7      2.5
Education expenditures in relation to total
government expenditures (%)                          25.0   16.6.   11.0
Sources: Gbvernment data and Bank estimates.
2.34      The principal causes of this trend have been:  (a) constant
political friction, especially at the university level, which seems to have
cooled the successive governments' enthusiasm for education; (b) the economic
crisis that started in 1975, which triggered reduced participation of the
labor-intensive education sector in the CDP; and (c) government policy, in
the face of economic crisis and limited public revenues, to favor investment
in sectors that promise shorter pay-off periods.
2.35      The financial stringency has adversely affected teacher salaries,
capital investments, and non-salary operational expenditures. For example,
in 1982 the monthly salary of a married, fully qualified, full-time primary
school teacher with ten years experience is currently the equivalent of about
US$100-130 and, in real terms, about 35% of what it had been in 1973 (when
salaries reached their peak). Important salary increases were granted in
1981, which pushed salaries to about 70-75% of their 1973 level, but
continuing inflation rapidly eroded these gains. Nevertheless, teachers'
salaries, especially outside of Lima, remain fairly competitive, since wages
in all sectors have been adversely affected by the country's economic
difficulties. Capital investment (in constant prices) suffered even more,
registering in 1979 a level below all but five years between 1965 and 1974.
Equally severe has been the impact of the contraction on the all-important
non-salary current expenditures (school maintenance, travel and per diem for
supervision and teacher upgrading, etc.), and on the availability of
textbooks for primary and secondary school students (para. 2.22).



- 12 -
Possible Solutions
2.36      The solution of organizational, staffing and financial problems
mentioned above requires multiple and sustained efforts at the central,
regional and local levels. At the central level, administrative improvement
requires addressing the root problems that pervade all of Peru's public
administration system, i.e., span of control, budgeting procedures, civil-
service incentive systems, and auditing practices. Internally, the MOE
requires upgrading of its managerial capacity anid decentralization of its
routine administrative procedures. At the regional/departmental level, the
reform of the regional education offices must include collaboration of the
newly established CORDES (Departmental Development Corporations). The role
that the CORDES will play in relation to educatiLon management and school
construction at the regional level must be defined. Furthermore, regional
offices must be reorganized in order to assume the responsibilities called
for by the decentralization policies. At the provincial level various
problems must be addressed; school administration procedures must be
established emphasizing school maintenance and aLdequate timing of teacher
transfers and adequate scheduling of teacher and student activities. At all
levels, it is necessary to establish information systems that allow proper
monitoring of schools as well as timely decision making. Fmphasis should be
given to development of the computer software thiat would allow proper
processing of budgeting, accounting and payroll, as well as statistical data
necessary for basic analysis of the education sector.
III.  ODVERNMENT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY
3.01      Primary education has a high priority in the government's develop-
ment plan, as it is considered a prerequisite for overcoming the economic,
cultural and social constraints of the poor urban and rural populations.
Accordingly, and despite the severe budget constraints, important primary
education sector investments including school construction entrusted to the
CORDES as well as this project, have been decided upon by the government.
Following up on these decisions, the Ministry of Education has prepared a
program for expanding and improving the primary school system. The program
aims at: (a) providing sufficient and adequate schooling places for all
primary school-age children by 1993; (b) improving the quality of primary
education; and (c) modernizing education administration. The Gbvernment's
strategy in primary education is in line with the Bank's development strategy
for Peru. Important elements of the latter are, inter alia, increases in the
yield of resources devoted to education through :Lmproved management and
school quality and in labor productivity through improved education and
training.
A. Provide Sufficient Student Places
3.02      About 20,000 new classrooms are needed in Peru to provide universal
primary education to all school-age children by 1993. To meet this need, a
three-phase school construction program (1984-1993) has been prepared by the
government. There are now three main construction agencies involved in
project preparation and implementation: INIED (National Institute of



- 13 -
Education Infrastructure) 5/ CORDES (the Departmental Development
Corporations) and the "Cooperacion Popular" program for school building
(COPO). Table 3.1 shows the implementation responsibilities of each of these
agencies in the school construction program. INIED will be responsible for
building 17% of the primary classrooms planned (Phase I) and of all the
student places for teacher training throughout the program. The CORDES (25
departmental units including Lima) which have evolved from the former ORDES
(the Regional Development Organizations) are now in the process of
reorganizing and restaffing themselves in line with a new legislative decree
issued in 1982. As can be noted in Table 3.1, the CORDES are responsible for
building the greatest number of planned public classrooms (50% of the
program: Phase I), which will be financed exclusively with government funds.
The "Cooperacion Popular" program (33% in Phase I) will be financed partly
with government funds (an estimated 60%) and the rest (40%) with community
resources. Implementation of the "Cooperacion Popular" program has been
strengthened through technical assistance from CARE (Cooperative for American
Relief Everywhere).
3.03      Because the above program is an ambitious one, it has been planned
in 3 phases. The first phase of the program would meet the needs of poor
urban areas and of selected rural villages. The fast growing cities, have
been selected by the government for this phase because they have high
concentrations of poor people, and because their education needs are well
identified and would be comparatively easy to meet in the starting phase of
the program, particularly in view of the managerial and administrative
problems being faced by MOE and the recently established CORDES. All cities
are located in areas where immigration has been high in recent years and
where the government is making efforts to provide social services to the
urban poor. One of these cities is Iquitos, the major city in the jungle
area of Peru located by the Amazon River. At least 70% of the facilities
would be built in the marginal urban neighborhoods of the selected cities,
that is, in the so-called "Pueblos Jovenes" (poor urban neighborhoods in the
outskirts of fast growing cities) and the rest (30%) would be built in the
rural areas of selected departments.
3.04      The second phase of the program would meet the needs of rural areas
in coastal departments as well as part of those in the altiplano (high
altitude) departments. The third phase would aim at meeting the remaining
school needs in the altiplano and the jungle areas.
5/   INIED, under the Ministry of Education, has been established as the
major education infrastructure building unit of the central government,
in charge of implementing education projects financed by external
agencies (IDB, IBRD, OEA, UNDP). Since its inception in 1981, INIED has
organized itself into two general directorates: School Planning and
School Construction. Both directorates have at the present about 280
staff, including some 114 professionals (25 architects, 42 engineers,
2 economists and 45 liberal arts graduates) and 166 support staff.



- 14 -
Table 3.1 SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Phase I         Phase II         Phase III
(1984-1987)      (1988-1990)      (1991-1993)       Total
Areas covered      poor urban        rural coastal   altiplano
areas and         and altiplano   and jungle
selected rural   areas             areas
neighborhoods
New Classrooms      6,000              9,000           5,000          20,000
INIED            1,000 a/           1,000           1,000           3,000
CORDES           3,000              6,000           3,000          12,000 b/
COPO             2,000              2,000           1,000           5,000 c/
Student Places
(primary schools)
('000)              230                360             210             800
Student Places
(teacher training
institutions)                                                               d/
6,000              9,-000          5,000          20,000
Estimated cost                                                                -
(US$ million)      125                190             115             430
a/ Partly financed (60%) by IBRD and the rest (40%) by the government.
b/ Entirely financed by the government.
c/ Partly financed by government (60%) and by community resources
(40%). Technical assistance provided by CARE.
d/ Partly financed (60%) by IDB and the rest (40%) by the government.
e/ Construction costs without contingencies.
Source: Ministry of Education.



- 15 -
B. Improve Quality and Efficiency
3.05      The education program also envisages improvement of the quality
and efficiency of primary education. The strategy to accomplish these
improvements calls for: (a) improved school administration practices;
(b) adaptation of the curriculum to meet needs of local populations;
(c) provision of textbooks and related teaching materials; and (d) training
of teachers and school administrators.
3.06      The program calls for improvement of school organization and
administration practices. It aims at improving ways in which schools make
use of available resources. Specifically, the program supports remedial
programs for slow learners, control of student attendance, establishment of
criteria for school groupings and effective use of class time (i.e., length
and regularity of class time).
3.07      A new curriculum for the whole country was adopted in 1982.  Two
special adaptations of this new curriculum are being designed to meet the
needs of rural areas of non-Spanish speaking students. The nature of rural
schools calls for a multigraded approach (i.e., one-room schoolhouses and one
or two teachers for various grades). This multigraded curriculum is being
tested in about 100 primary schools. It is expected that during the second
phase of the education program (1988-1990) the curriculum will be implemented
in the 9,000 incomplete schools found in rural areas of Peru. Similarly,
various bilingual education programs are being implemented. One of them is
in Puno for Aymara and Quechua-speaking children by the German Agency for
Technical Cooperation (GTZ) and MOE. Under this program the Puno educational
authorities are teaching almost 6,000 vernacular-speaking children in grades
1-3 to read and write in their vernacular language, as well as in Spanish.
As part of this project textbooks have been developed and teachers have
received special training. Plans have been developed to expand coverage to
almost 40,000 children in grades 1-6 by 1987.
3.08      The production and distribution of textbooks (for grades 1-2) and
other learning materials have been included in the education program. Books
should become available to all primary school students, meeting demands as
stated in Annex 3.
3.09      Teachers, supervisors and school administrators (about 20,000
persons) need to be trained in accordance with the changes and innovations
envisaged in the new curriculum (in Phases I and II of the education program)
and especially for the use of new textbooks. The preservice program, which
will be partly financed by IDB, includes the construction and equipment
needed for about 15 teacher training centers (20,000 student places)
nationwide (Table 3.1). The in-service training needs are being proposed for
Bank financing. To carry out this program the government has strengthened
INIDE (The National Institute of Research and Education Development), which
will be also in charge of implementing the multigraded curriculum (para.
3.07) and the program concerning the production and distribution of textbooks
(para. 3.08). INIDE is now a well organized and staffed institution with
about 370 staff (10 senior managers, 160 education specialists, 80 tech-
nicians and 120 support personnel).



- 16 -
C. Improve Education M[anagement
3.10      The education program recognizes the need to modernize education
administration and management. As a result, the following actions are being
taken:
(a) twenty-five regional directorates are being established with the
purpose of decentralizing education administration and delegating
monitoring of the system to local authorities;
(b) the school supervision system is being decentralized into municipal
supervisory units to ensure participation of school principals in
the supervision process;
(c) a unit for analyzing the status of all Ministry departments and
offices has been established within the Office of the Minister;
(d)  the MOE budgetary system is being studied as part of a management
assessment scheme conducted by the Ministry of Finance; and
(e)  the overall institutional capacity of the MOE is being strengthened
as a result of the actions that are being taken in (a), (b), (c)
and (d) above.
3.11      In general terms, the government's education program is sound.
However, time will be needed to address all problems in view of the finan-
cial, human and managerial constraints facing Peru. Priorities concerning
improvements in the primary education subsector (quality, coverage, school
supervision and management) have been established so that the most pressing
problems in the marginal urban areas and selected rural villages can be
adequately addressed first.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Overview
4.01      The proposed project has been designed in accordance with the
government's policies and development strategy (Chapter III). It aims at
providing student places to meet the enrollment targets of the first phase
and part (30%) of those of the second phase of ithe ten-year educational
program. In addition, the project would improve quality and efficiency of
education for about 300,000 students by improving school administration
practices, by training teachers and by providing textbooks. The project
would also assist the government in its efforts to strengthen and further
develop the MOE's administrative and managerial capacity.
4.02      The first project objective is to provide sufficient and adequate
school places in target areas: ten fast-growing cities of Peru and rural
areas of ten departments. The project would provide about 1,250 classrooms
in some 150 schools. A total of about 39,000 new student places would be
provided to accommodate 76,500 students in double shifts (Considers a second
shift for existing facilities at 75%).



- 17 -
4.03      The second objective of the project is to improve the quality and
efficiency of primary education in all schools located in ten selected
departments included in the first phase of the government's educational
program. This objective would be achieved by:
(a) improving school management practices;
(b) training 4,000 school principals, 1,000 regional and local
supervisors and 16,000 school teachers;
(c) providing textbooks and other learning materials for about 300,000
children;
(d) developing the curriculum for the multigraded schools that function
in rural areas of Lambayeque as a pilot program; and
(e) supporting the institutionalization and expansion of the bilingual
education project for Aymara-and Quechua-speaking children in Puno.
4.04      The third objective of the project is to assist the government in
strengthening the MOE's project implementation capacity.. This objective
would be achieved by:
(a) developing INIDE's (the Pedagogical Unit of the MOE) capacity to
implement in-service training programs and produce textbooks and
other printing materials;
(b) strengthening INIED's (the Physical Implementation Unit) managerial
capacity through: (i) training of senior staff and (ii) improving
construction planning, overall management and supervision capacity;
and
(c) supporting a follow-up study of the assistance provided by the
Public Sector Management Project (Loan 2204-PE mentioned earlier)
for improving the budgeting processes of the Ministry of Education.
B. Objective 1: Provision of Sufficient and Adequate Student Places
(Proposed outlay without contingencies: about US$24.0 million)
4.05      The project would provide sufficient and adequate student places
for 53,500 primary school-age children in ten rapidly growing cities and
for about 23,000 students of the poor rural areas of ten departments of
Peru. A school mapping exercise conducted by the MOE revealed that about 910
classrooms would be needed in the ten cities and some 340 classrooms in the
rural areas of the selected departments to meet expected demand for primary
education by 1988 (Table 4.1). Accordingly, the project would finance:
(a) construction and renovation of, and furniture and equipment for
about 90 schools in urban centers (910 classrooms); and
(b) construction and renovation of, and furniture and equipment for
about 60 schools (340 classrooms) in rural neighborhoods and
villages.



- 18 -
Table 4.1: PERU: PHYSICAL FACILITIES BY CITY
Project Schools                 Classrocns                        Enrollments
Total    Enrolhmnt
Urban  Riral a/    Urban Centers          Rural Areas a/    Student  in lbuble
Centers Areas    New bT Extensions b/ Ne b/ Etensions b/ Places    Shifting c/
Arequipa         12       3        80        30         '3         6         5,000      7,400
(Arequipa)
Cajamarca        4       10        32         8         32        18         3,600      5,700
(Cajanmrca)
Cidclayo        12        4       106        34         15        10         6,600     11,800
(Tlantayeque)
Chimbote         8       10        70        10         36        14         5,200      7,000
(Ancash)
Ica              6        4        40        10         12        8          2,800      4,000
(Ica)
Iquitos          5        -        45        15         -         -          2,400      3,200
(Loreto)
Liina/Call      20        8       190        10         32        18        10,000     15,700
(lT.m)
Piura/Sullana    10       6        90        30         32        18         6,800     10,000
(Piura)
Trujillo         9        5        73         7         18        12         4,400      7,200
(La Libertad)
Puno/Juliaca     4       10        24         6         32        18         3,200      4,500
(Puno)
Total:       90       60       750       160        218       122        50,000     76,500
a/ Includes rural schools facilities in the selected departoents as a whole.
b/ 'W"  means new classrooms in schools to be constructed and 'Extensions"  eans new classrooms in
existing schools. Classroonrs to be renovated are not shawn in this
Table.
c/ Considers only a second shift for the existing facilities at 75% utilization in
such a shift.



- 19 -
4.06      School location criteria and standards for school designs are
acceptable to the Bank. Urban schools would be located in poor neighborhoods
of the project cities. Classrooms would have a maximum of 40 student places
and they would be used in two shifts in at least 75% of the schools. Rural
schools financed by the project would be located in neighborhoods that have
500-1,500 inhabitants. These schools would be located no more than three
kilometers from students' homes. They would have one to three classrooms
with a maximum class size of 40 students and would provide multigrade
teaching. The MOE has already applied these criteria for the school designs
of about 47% of the new schools to be constructed. During negotiations, the
government provided assurances that all the project schools would be located
according to criteria agreed upon with the Bank.
C. Objective 2: Improvement of School Efficiency and Quality
(Proposed outlay without contingencies: about US$7.7 million)
4.07      Improvements in school efficiency and quality would be sought in
all ten departments which constitute the target areas of the first phase of
the government's educational program. In order to improve school efficiency,
drastic reductions in repetition and dropout rates are required and provision
of learning inputs is necessary to increase student achievement levels. This
would be achieved in Peru through (a) strengthening and improving school
management practices through technical assistance and in-house training;
(b) providing textbooks and other learning materials; (c) training school
teachers; (d) developing a special curriculum for multigraded schools in
rural areas; and (e) expanding bilingual programs in communities with
vernacular-speaking children.
4.08      Within this framework, the project would finance: (a) technical
assistance for improving school management; (b) provision of textbooks and
other learning materials for about 300,000 public school children; (c) in-
service training of 1,000 regional and local school supervisors, 2,500 school
principals, and 17,500 school teachers; (d) technical assistance for
developing the unitary school curriculum to be piloted in Lambayeque; and
(e) printing of bilingual textbooks and training of bilingual teachers for
Aymara- and Quechua-speaking areas of the Puno department.
Improvements in School Management (Proposed outlay: about US$250,000)
4.09      As stated in para. 2.16, weak school management practices have a
significant impact on low public school student achievement levels. In order
to identify existing problems better and to design and implement new mana-
gerial procedures that address existing deficiencies, the project would
support technical assistance for: (a) a thorough analysis of current school
administrative practices; and (b) development of school administration and
school supervision procedures. Special attention would be given to defining
the role and responsibilities of school principals, school supervisors and
departmental administrators in establishing adequate school calendars for
rural areas and defining school maintenance procedures.



- 20 -
4.10      One specialist in school administration would work in the Regional
Directorate of Chiclayo assisting the regional director in the above-
mentioned tasks and in the training of staff in the use of the managerial
guidelines and procedures to be designed. Once these new administrative
practices are implemented in the regional directorate, a seminar for five
other regional directors would be conducted in Chiclayo and procedures for
similar developments in other regions would 'be designed. Within this
framework, the project would finance: (a) salaries for the specialist in
school administration for two years; (b) printing of the school
administration and supervision manuals; and (c) the seminar for the other
regional directors and their senior staff. During negotiations, the
government provided assurances that recommendations of the Chiclayo seminar
on school administrative practices would be taken into account for
strengthening the project school administrative practices. The Government
would review these recommendations with the Bank and put into operation those
agreed upon.
Provision of Textbooks (Proposed outlay: about US$5.4 million)
4.11      The project would support the first phase of a ten-year textbook
program aimed at providing low cost textbooks to all children enrolled in
public schools nationwide. The ten-year textbook program is shown in Table
4.2. During the first phase some 3.0 million textbooks and 15 manuscripts
(including 7 that are ready for field testing) would be developed, printed
and distributed to children in the ten project departments.
4.12      Textbook development would be undertaken by INIDE.  Field testing
and revision of prototypes would be conducted in about 12 project schools, in
actual classroom conditions, for a whole school year, under the supervision
of INIDE staff. The textbook development unit of INIDE would then be
responsible for revising the manuscripts based on field observations and
teachers' suggestions. INIDE would also be responsible for securing the
necessary official approval, including copyrights. The project would finance
(a) contracts with individual authors and editors for textbook writing and
revision; (b) paper for try-out editions; (c) field testing of manuscripts;
and (d) the necessary supplies and equipment for textbook graphics and page
designs.
4.13      Textbook printing would be undertaken by INIDE when less than 5,000
copies are required; otherwise, they would be contracted with private
firms.Production quantities would be based on enrollments plus a reserve
stock of at least 30% to cover enrollment increases and the expected
replacement of copies over the four to five-year period of implementation.
The project would finance (a) extension of the physical facilities of INIDE
printing shop; (b) equipment, paper and printing supplies for textbooks to be
printed by INIDE; and (c) contracts with private printing firms.



- 21 -
Table 4.2: PHASING OF TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT
AND PRODUCTION (1984-1993)
Phase I                        Phase II                   Phase III
(1984-87)                      (1988-90)                   (1991-93)
Production of Grades 1-2:
Languages & Mathematics
(7 titles) a/
Development of Grades 1-2:   Production of Grade 3:
Science & Social Studies --- Science & Social Studies
(4 titles)                      (4 titles)
Development of Grade 3:         Development of Grade 3:   Production of Grade 3:
Language & Mathematics   --- Science & Social             -- Science & Social
(4 titles)                      Studies                      Studies
(4 titles)                   (4 titles)
Development of Grade 4:   Production of Grade 4:
Language, Mathematics, -- Language, Mathematics,
Science & Social Studies  Science & Social
(8 titles)                  Studies
(8 titles)
Development of Grades
5-6: Language, Mathe-
matics, Science &
Social Studies
(16 titles)
Production of Grades
5-6:  Language, Mathe-
matics, Science &
Social Studies
(16 titles)
Total:         15               20                           40
Production:    7 titles          8 titles                    28 titles
Development:   8 titles         12 titles                    16 titles
a/   Developed and ready for production at the start of the project.



- 22 -
4.14      Textbook distribution would be organized by INIDE on the basis of
one book per student for first and second grades, and one book per two
students for third grade. Distribution would be done from INIDE to the
Regional Directorates and from the Regional Directorates to the schools. The
project would finance: (a) construction of a textbook warehouse in INIDE;
(b) delivery of textbooks from INIDE to the regional directorates; and
(c) expenses incurred by the Regional Directorates in distributing textbooks
to schools. In the long-run, distribution of textbooks would be financed by
the proceeds of selling textbooks to children in private schools. The text-
books for public schools would be school property and would be utilized
mainly within school premises. Unit costs of textbooks for sale would be the
production cost plus 30-40% profit which is estimated to be 50% less than the
commercial price of textbooks in Peru. During negotiations, the Bank
reviewed an acceptable version of the textbook distribution plan.
In-service Training Program (Proposed outlay without contingencies: about
US$2.10 million)
4.15      The project would support training of regional and local
supervisors, school principals and school teachers in the ten project
departments. The training program would be planned, organized and
coordinated by INIDE in close cooperation with the Primary Education
Department of the MOE. Fifteen INIDE staff and five MOE staff would be
responsible for planning and coordinating the program with the assistance of
an internationally recruited consultant. These staff would then assist the
regional education staff in implementing the training program in each one of
the project departments.
4.16      Three in-service programs would be organized: (a) a program for
training regional and local supervisors; (b) a program for all school
principals and teachers who would be working in the project schools; and
(c) an orientation program for all first and second grade teachers who would
use the new textbooks.  Annex 5 outlines the objectives and scheduling of
these programs.
4.17      The training program for regional and local supervisors has four
major objectives: (a) to improve the school administration practices,
including school maintenance practices, and the adequate use of the equipment
and educational materials available; (b) to improve the academic supervision
practices including the training of teachers and the use of new books
provided by the project; (c) to improve the student evaluation practices; and
(d) to improve the utilization of community resources for the organization of
nutrition and health courses and school activities. In order to meet these
objectives, four one-week seminars would be organized in each one of the ten
departments covered by the project. The seminars would be taught by INIDE
staff and contracted professionals outside MOE. One thousand (1,000)
regional and local supervisors would be trained.
4.18      The training program for school principals and teachers for the
project schools has four major objectives: (a) to improve the schools'
organization practices, including the planning of curriculum; (b) to



- 23 -
introduce the new books provided by the project; (c) to improve the student
evaluation practices; and (d) to enhance both the school and community by
using community resources. To meet these objectives four one-week seminars
would be organized throughout the ten departments covered by the project.
The seminars would be taught by INIDE staff, contracted professionals, and
regional and local supervisors. Two-thousand five-hundred (2,500) school
principals and teachers, mainly for the classrooms to be built or remodeled
by the project, would be trained.
4.19      The training program for school principles and teachers in the
project departments has two major objectives: (a) to review effective
administrative procedures for the texts and (b) to familiarize the principals
and teachers with the texts and the teachers guides so that they would be
able to effectively use the textbooks. To meet these objectives, two five-
day seminars would be organized throughout the ten departments covered by the
project. The seminars would be taught by the regional and local supervisors
supplemented by radio and correspondence lessons. Seventeen-thousand
five-hundred (17,500) principals and teachers would be trained.
4.20      Taking into consideration the difficulties encountered by the
existing teacher training programs (para. 2.20), and in order to make sure
that the supervisors, principals, and teachers acquire the skills necessary
for improving their work, the in-service training component has been designed
with the characteristics noted below. Each seminar will: (a) have a specific
objective; (b) be followed by a period of practice in the use of the skills
related to the training objective; and (c) be followed by a discussion and
evaluation of the skills acquired. Under this seminar-practice-discussion
format, it is expected that the new knowledge and skills would have an impact
on school administration and teaching practices throughout the ten
departments of the project. Moreover, it is expected that this new approach
to training in specific skills would become a regular feature of the courses
taught by INIDE and the regional and local supervisors in the future. INIDE
would participate in the training courses by visiting schools, gathering data
on school administration practices, the use of textbooks by teachers and
students, and the supervision and evaluation practices used after the
training courses.
4.21      The project would finance: (a) travel and per diem expenses (US$10
per day) for INIDE staff when working outside of Lima; (b) salaries for
persons outside the MOE who are contracted to provide training; (c) travel
and per diem expenses for participants (US$5-8 per day) receiving training
outside of their own communities; (d) radio lessons, materials and equipment
required for the seminars; and (e) salaries for internationally recruited
consultants who would assist INIDE in refining plans for the program and
developing appropriate measures for evaluation.



- 24 -
4.22      The training program is expected to be implemented after textbooks
have been developed and after the school administration analysis has been
conducted in Lambayeque. This schedule would allow trainers to use the
school management manuals and the textbooks as materials for training
supervisors, principals and teachers. Seminars for supervisors are therefore
scheduled to begin the second year of the project. Seminars for school
principals and teachers would take place during the third and fourth year of
the project.
4.23      Curriculum for Multigrade Schools.  The project would support the
development of a special curriculum for multigrade schools (schools with six
grades, but only one or two classrooms). This; curriculum is intended for
scarcely populated rural areas where one teacher has to teach various grades
simultaneously. In order to ensure that these multigrade schools can offer
the six-grade primary school cycle, special provisions must be made in the
curriculum, teachers must have special training and special teaching
materials must be provided to schools. Within this framework, the project
would finance: (a) six fellowships for three MOE staff and three staff from
the Regional Directorate in Chiclayo to visit countries where a multigrade
school curriculum has been implemented; (b) ten months of technical
assistance for the development of the Peruvian multigrade school curriculum;
and (c) training of about 20 multigrade school teachers who would pilot the
new curriculum in their schools.
4.24      Bilingual Education.  The project would support the
institutionzalization and expansion of the bilingual education program for
Aymara- and Quechua-speaking children in the Puno department (para. 3.07).
About 40,000 children would receive education in both their own language and
in Spanish. This would bring coverage in the Puno department from its
present 4% to 36%. To do this, the project would provide for
(a) publication and distribution of 220,000 already-piloted books at a cost
of US$255,000; and (b) training of about 1,200 specialists and teachers at a
cost of US$245,000. It is expected that the GTZ assistance mentioned in
para. 3.07 will continue throughout the 1987 school year.
4.25      Additionally, and in order to assist the government in its commit-
ment to bilingual education, the project would support a feasibility study to
include: (a) assessment of all inputs necessary to provide bilingual
education on a country-wide basis to all vernacular-speaking children; and
(b) recommendations as to which phases (two or three) of the government's
educational program would support bilingual education. The execution of this
study would be contracted by MOE with outside experts. The cost of the study
is estimated to be US$180,000. The terms of reference for the above study
were discussed and agreed upon during negotiatiLons.
D. Objective 3: Improvement of Management
(Proposed outlay without contingencies:
about US$1.1 million)
4.26      The project would support the strengthening and further development
of the agencies involved in project implementation and the administrative
changes that are needed to modernize management: of education in Peru. The



- 25 -
project would support key actions which are feasible during the life of the
project and which directly affect the primary education subsector and the
project. Within this perspective, the project would assist the government
in: (a) strengthening INIDE's capacity to develop, print and distribute text-
books; (b) strengthening INIED's administrative capacity; and (c) carrying
out a follow-up study of the outcome of the assistance provided by the Public
Sector Management Project (Report No. 3383-PE, dated September 1, 1982) for
improving budgeting processes in the Planning Office of the MOE. These
activities are discussed below.
Establishment of a Textbook Unit within INIDE (Proposed outlay: US$120,000)
4.27      The project would help in strengthening INIDE's capacity to
develop, print and supply textbooks by strengthening a recently established
(July 1983) permanent unit within INIDE responsible for the full range of
textbook production functions: manuscript development, printing, distribution
and field testing. The project would finance (a) forty eight (48)
staff-months of technical assistance for assisting INIDE in planning,
organizing and implementing the textbook program; (b) textbook-related
operation expenses (travel expenses, office supplies, supporting staff); and
(c) a study on the establishment of a permanent system to distribute the
textbooks produced. The terms of reference for the study on the distribution
of textbooks were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. During
negotiations the government provided assurances that all textbooks would be
field-tested according to criteria agreed with the Bank, and revised on the
basis of the field tests before large-scale printing.
Strengthening the Administrative Capacity of the Physical Implementation Unit
(INIED) (Proposed outlay: about US$700,000)
4.28      The project would address three major administrative deficiencies
encountered in the Physical Implementation Unit (INIED): (a) incomplete
training of its staff; (b) lack of clarity in defining the administrative
functions which should be undertaken locally by the CORDES in accordance with
the government's decentralization policies; and (c) lack of school
construction planning and school design standards for the second and third
phases of the educational program.
4.29      In order to address the above-mentioned problems, the project would
finance: (a) an analysis of the functions that could be delegated to the
CORDES; (b) training of senior staff in management and in school construction
planning and supervision; and (c) future project preparation. The government
has prepared detailed terms of reference for the above mentioned analysis.
A detailed plan for the in-service training of senior INIED staff would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. This should include senior personnel from
the accounting, costing, overall planning and supervision units of INIED.
4.30      In order to improve school construction planning, the project would
support a school mapping exercise to determine school sites for the second
and third phases of the educational program. The exercise would include:
(a) criteria and guidelines for locating schools (e.g., population density,



- 26 -
school size, existing school deficits and appropriate walking distances);
(b) data on physical conditions of existing facilities and anticipated repair
needs; (c) policies for school capital investments at the national, regional
and local levels; and (d) school construction standards and methods for
different climatic zones.
4.31      The project would finance: (a) 15 staff-months of technical assist-
ance for the above-mentioned tasks; and (b) travel expenses for INIED staff
involved in conducting the school mapping exercise.
Improving of the Budgeting Processes (Proposed outlay:US$300,000)
4.32      The project would support a follow-up study of the assistance
provided by the Public Sector Management Project for improving the budgeting
process and information system of the Ministry of Education. In addition,
the project would finance an assessment of the computer software needed to
implement a completely automated budgeting and accounting system for the
education sector. Terms of reference for these studies would be prepared by
the MOE and by the Ministry of Finance and would be sent for Bank review and
comments during 1985. The project would finance: (a) about 15 staff-months
of technical assistance for this project element; (b) the software needed to
implement the budgeting and accounting systems.
E. Summary of Technical Assistance
4.33      Table 4.3 summarizes the technical assistance and studies to be
supported by the project. A total of about 206 staff-months would be
financed. In addition, about 60 staff-months of fellowships would be
provided to staff working in developing the mu:Ltigrade school curriculum and
to the MOE senior staff involved in project implementation. A condition of
effectiveness would be the preparation of a draft contract agreed upon with
the Bank for the execution of the technical assistance program with private
or international organizations. Such a contract should include specifics
about the monitoring, evaluating and staffing procedures of the whole
technical assistance program. During negotiatjions, the government provided
assurances that it would hire, no later than June 30, 1985 and under contract
satisfactory to the Bank, the services of a private or international
organization that would execute the technical assistance program included or
related to the project.



- 27 -
Table 4.3 SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Staff-Months
Short-Term   Long-Term
Expert Services                 Specialists  Specialists    MOE Units
1.  School Management                 6         48           Regional
Directorate of
Lambayeque
2.  Teacher Training                            48           INIDE
3.  Multigrade school Curriculum                10           General Directorate
of Primary
Education
4.  Textbook Production              24         24           INIDE
5.  Textbook Distribution            12                      INIDE
6.  Budgeting-MOE                     6          12          MOE - Budget Office
7. INIED Construction
Administration                --          10
Total                            54        152
Fellowships                                                  Staff-Months
1. Staff working in developing
the unitary school curriculum (Primary Ed.Directorate)         10
2. INIED senior staff training in
school construction planning                                   15
3.  Textbook production                                             10
4.  Budgeting-MOE                                                   15
5.  In-service training                                            10
Total                                                         60
Studies
1. Bilingual Education Feasibility
Study
2. INIED's Administrative Structure
3. School Mapping



- 28 -
V. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      The government has devised special management arrangements for
efficient implementation of the project. These arrangements, which are
discussed in sequence below, include:
(a) organization of a Project Coordinating Group, under the
Vice-Ministry, and clearly defined responsibilities for all MOE
units involved in project implementation;
(b) organization of a permanent unit within INIDE, which ensures the
carrying out of the full range of textbook production functions:
manuscript development, printing, field testing, distribution and
evaluation of impact;
(c) a staffing plan which ensures that qualified staff would be
available to carry out the project;
(d) well defined implementation procedures; and
(e) a realistic implementation schedule.
A. Project Organization
5.02      Diagram 5.1 shows project organization.  Overall responsibility for
the project would be assigned to the Vice-Ministry of the MOE. Specifically,
the Vice-Minister would be in charge of: (a) approving annual operational and
financial plans; (b) monitoring project execution; and (c) submitting a
biannual progress report to the Bank. In order to carry out these functions
efficiently, the Vice-Minister would be assisted by a Project Coordinating
Group.  This group would consist of a Project Di'rector and representatives
from each one of the executing agencies: INIED (the Physical Implementation
Unit), the General Directorate of Primary Education and INIDE. In addition,
and in order to ensure adequate coordination with other government agencies,
key meetings of the Coordinating Group, during project implementation, would
be attended by a representative from the Ministry of Finance. Specific
responsibilities of the Project Coordinating Group and of the executing
agencies are discussed in sequence below. During negotiations, the
government provided assurances that meetings of the Project Coordinating
Group, to discuss budget and financial matters would be attended by a
representative of the Ministry of Finance. A condition of effectiveness
would be the contractual arrangements between the MOE and INIDE and INIED
stipulating INIDE and INIED participation in the project execution including
the transfer of loan proceeds and budgetary resources.



- 29 -
Diagram 5.1: PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Ministry of
Education             Project     ...
Coordinating
Vice-Ministry            Group
Coordinating,
monitoring and
programming of
a/            all project
activities
.. .. .    .   .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .. .. . .. . .. ... ... .. . ..
The Pedagogical      General Directorate     The Physical
implementation               of              Implementation
Unit (INIDE)          Primary Education      Unit (INIED)
Teacher                  School               School
Training               Management          Construction
Textbooks             Curriculum              School
Development            Planning
*                                                   0
Bilingual
Education
_    .     Regional      _
.  0  0  0  .  .  .  0  0  .  0  .  0  Offices   of  .  .  .  .  .  0  0  0  .  .  0  0  0  0
Education
a/ It is understood that this setting works only for project implementation.
Authority Line.
Technical Coordination.



- 30 -
Project Coordinating Group
5.03      The Project Coordinating Group would assist the Vice-Minister of
Education in coordinating and monitoring projeci: implementation. The project
director would be responsible for day-to-day coordination, guidance and
monitoring activities and for liaison with the Bank. In addition, the
Project Director would be responsible for planning and coordinating the
technical assistance component of the project, ifor preparing the annual
operational and financial plan and the biannual progress reports. The
Project Director would be assisted by three or four support staff including a
programmer/financial specialist. The project would finance: (a) operating
costs for the project coordinating activities (travel expenses, consumable
materials) and; (b) basic office equipment for the Project Director. The
government would bring to negotiations an MOE resolution adopting Diagram 5.1
as the working organization for implementing the project.
INIED
5.04      The Physical Implementation Unit (INIED) would be responsible for
implementing the physical components of the project. More specifically,
it would be responsible for (a) selecting and acquiring sites for new
schools; (b) contracting private firms to design facilities; (c) preparing
bid proposals and awarding contracts; (d) certifying progress of civil works
and making necessary payments to construction firms accordingly; (e) furnish-
ing and equipping schools (preparing master lists and bid proposals, awarding
contracts and distributing all goods procured) and (f) carrying out the
school mapping exercise for the second and third phases of the government's
educational program (para. 3.02). In accordance with the government's wish
to decentralize public administration, the Physical Implementation Unit would
delegate some of these functions to the CORDES which, in the INIED's
judgment, have the operational capabilities required to carry out their
duties under the given contract. For delegation of activities to CORDES,
contracts, satisfactory to the Bank, would be signed between the CORDES in
question and INIED. During negotiations the government provided assurances
that INIED would delegate only to the CORDES which have the operational
capability, the construction and/or furnishing and/or equipping of project
schools through adequate contracts.
General Directorate of Primary Education
5.05      The General Directorate of Primary Education, in cooperation with
INIDE, would be responsible for improving school management, for training
school administrators and school supervisors and for developing the new
curriculum for multigrade schools. In addition, the General Directorate for
Primary Education would review textbook manuscripts to be printed by INIDE
and would assist INIDE in planning, organizing anid implementing all the
training programs to be executed in each one of the project departments (see
Table 4.1).  The implementation capacity of the P?rimary Education Directorate
would be reinforced through the technical assistance program (Table 4.3).



- 31 -
INIDE
5.06      INIDE would be responsible for in-service teacher training and for
the bilingual and textbook programs. Teacher training would be carried out
by the existing teacher training unit (about 15 staff) with the assistance of
teacher training and supervisory staff of the general Directorate of Primary
Education and of the regional education offices (about 15 staff). The
bilingual education component of the project would be implemented by the
existing bilingual education group within INIDE in close cooperation with the
GTZ and the regional education office in Puno. As described below, a
permanent unit has been created within INIDE for the textbook program.
B. Textbook Program Organization
5.07      A textbook unit (about 15 staff) has been organized as a permanent
division within INIDE to undertake the full range of textbook production
functions: manuscript development, printing, distribution, evaluation and
testing of prototypes. Diagram 5.2 shows the organization chart of the
textbook unit. A textbook program director would be assisted by a
procurement specialist, a financial specialist and three coordinators: one
for manuscript development, one for textbook printing and one for textbook
distribution. The project would finance operating expenses of the textbook
unit during the life of the project (domestic and abroad travel, office
supplies and equipment and short-term (2-6 weeks) consultants and support
staff). The director of the textbook unit has been appointed and is now in
the process of recruiting and training staff.
5.08      The manuscript development coordinator would be in charge of
manuscript planning, writing, editing and field testing. The production
coordinator would be responsible for textbook designs and for coordinating
the printing activities. The distribution coordinator would prepare lists of
recipient schools, make arrangements for contracting freight to schools, and
verify deliveries.
C. Staffing Plans
5.09      Arrangements are being made to ensure that qualified staff are
available for project execution (Diagram 5.1). These arrangements are
summarized below.
Coordinating Group
5.10      Day-to-day project coordinating activities would be handled by the
Project Director assisted by three to four support staff, including a
programmer/financial specialist (para. 5.03). The government has now
appointed the Project Director in accordance with the terms of reference
already agreed upon with the Bank.



- 32 -
Diagram 5.2: TEXTBOOK PROCRAM ORGANIZATION
DIRECTOR (NERAL-INIDE
Policy planning
Budget & contracts approval
Coordination with:
- Vice Minister's Office
- Project Coordinating Group
- Primary Education
- Director of INIED
TEXTBOOK PROGRAM DIRECTOR
Policy execution
Planning, coordination,
control of all publishing
activities
PROCUREMENT & FINANCE (2)  a/                           TEACHER TRAINING    b/
Staffing
Budget & accounting
Cashier
Auditing                                                 EVALUATION        b/
Procurement
Process and
evaluation studies
Quality control
MANUSCRIPT DEVELOPMENT (4)           PRODUCTION (4)               DISTRIBUTION (4)
Misc. planning & writing          Book planning &               Warehousing
Supervision of writing               design                     List preparation,
contracts                      Preparation of final             dispatching
Editing                              pages                      Contrating freight
Field testing                     Printing supervision             forwarders
Approval of final pages                                         Verification of
_  .   .   M  .                   deliveries
a/ Numbers in parenthesis indicate number of staff needed by 1984.
b/ Existing teacher training and evaluation units of INIDE.



- 33 -
INIED
5.11      The Physical Implementation Unit has the technical and admin-
istrative staff required for execution of the physical component of the
project (para. 3.02). Although a team of INIED staff (two architects, three
engineers, one accountant and one auditor) has been assigned to the project,
written assignment of responsibilities would be required. Therefore, before
negotiations the government was asked to prepare: (a) a list of the Physical
Implementation Unit staff who would be involved in project implementation,
indicating the specific responsibilities they would have during the life of
the project; and (b) a set of the curriculum vitae of the staff involved in
project implementation, who are acceptable to the Bank.
General Directorate of Primary Education
5.12      The General Directorate of Primary Education (GDOPE) would make use
of existing staff to carry out the project activities. Five staff members
would be permanently assigned to improve school management activities and to
train school administrators. Three staff members would be assigned to assist
INIDE in textbook manuscript review and three staff members would be assigned
to develop the unitary school curriculum. The government would bring to the
Bank for review and agreement a list of the GDOPE staff involved in project
execution.
INIDE
5.13      About 15 professional staff would be assigned to carry out the
teacher training program and about 15 professionals would be assigned to the
new textbook unit (Diagram 5.2). Before negotiations, the government would
prepare terms of reference for INIDE staff. During negotiations the
government would be asked to provide assurances that qualified staff would be
selected and retained in the textbook unit.
5.14      The bilingual education program would continue being developed by
five professionals in the research unit with the GTZ technical cooperation.
Staffing for expansion of the program would be the responsibility of the
regional education office in Puno.
D. Implementation
5.15      Experience gained in implementing Loan 949-PE has been used to
formulate implementation procedures. Bank guidelines would be followed in
contracting professional and technical services and in procuring goods. A
special working fund would be established to ensure that funds for civil
works will be available in a timely manner. A project auditor and a
programmer/financing analyst would be appointed to ensure transactions of the
project. In addition, provisions have been made for adequate school
maintenance, as described below.



- 34 -
Professional and Technical Services
5.16      Specialist services would be used by the Physical Implementation
Unit for architectural designs and construction supervision and by INIDE for
textbook development. Architectural design and related engineering and
construction supervision would be contracted by the Physical Implementation
Unit following government procedures acceptable to the Bank. Textbook
manuscript development and review of existing textbook manuscripts could be
contracted by INIDE with individual authors and institutions on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement
5.17      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.1 and in the
sections below.
Table 5.1: METHODS OF PROCUREMENT BY PROJECT CATEGORY
Procurement Method              Total Excluding
Project Category         ICB       LCB     Other      N.A.       Contingencies
(US$ millions)
Civil Works                       14.50     4.50      1.93             20.93
Furniture                          2.63     0.30                        2.93
Equipment                1.45      1.35     0.09                        2.89
Textbooks                2.10      2.10     0.06      0.20              4.46
Training                                              1.68              1.68
Technical Assistance                                  0.77              0.77
Adminstration                                         0.70              0.70
3.55    20.58      4.95     5.28             34.36
5.18      Construction.  About 85% of total construction activities would be
contracted with private firms and about 15% would be executed through force
account. Most of the contracts for new schools are expected to be valued
below US$1 million and therefore would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB), following the procedeures used in Loan 949-PE,
which are acceptable to the Bank. Although foreign firms would have also the
right to participate in the LCB bidding, foreign contractors are not expected
to participate in the tenders because (a) the country has a competitive
construction industry capable of carrying out the proposed project, and (b)
civil works are small and scattered. Force account activities would be
carried out by the Physical Implementation Unit's Operations Division. Such
activities would not in aggregate exceed US$3.3 million (excluding
contingencies). Construction of facilities for a central textbook warehouse
estimated to cost US$220,000 (excluding contingencies) would be procured
under LCB.



- 35 -
5.19      Furniture and Equipment.  Furniture and equipment contracts would
be awarded on the basis of LCB because: (a) the local industry is highly
competitive for the kind of goods needed; and (b) it would not be practicable
to group sizeable packages for ICB (international competitive bidding) in
view of the the simplicity of the equipment needs (mostly instructional
equipment), number of districts involved and the differences in phasing of
the execution of the project. Therefore, LCB procedures satisfactory to the
Bank would be utilized. Procurement of miscellaneous furniture and equipment
items, not exceeding US$20,000 per contract, would be procured through local
shopping on the basis of three price quotations. Local shopping would not in
aggregate exceed US$75,000, or about 14% of estimated equipment and furniture
costs, including contingency allowances.
5.20      Textbooks.  Printing of textbooks would be contracted under LCB
when more than 5,000 copies of one manuscript were required. Interested
foreign suppliers would not be precluded from bidding. For less than 5,000
copies, printing would be done by INIDE and paper would be procured on the
basis of LCB. Textbook printing contracts would include the cost of paper,
textbook graphics, printing and delivery to INIDE's warehouse. Miscellaneous
printing items (e.g., ink) would be procured through local shopping on the
basis of three price quotations and would not in aggregate exceed US$50,000.
5.21      Prior Bank review would be required for: (a) civil works contracts
exceeding US$400,000. These contracts would amount to about US$9 million
equivalent, or about 50% of all civil works contracts; and (b) equipment,
furniture and textbook contracts exceeding US$50,000. These contracts would
amount to about US$1.2 million or about 30% of total cost of these items.
All contracts would be subject to random review by the Bank after contract
award.
Working Fund
5.22      In order to ensure that funds would be available in a timely manner
for efficient project implementation, MOE would establish a working fund in
the "Banco de la Nacion". The working fund would comprise two separate
accounts: (a) a special account; and (b) a project account. The special
account would be used for crediting proceeds from the loan. An initial
amount of US$0.6 million equivalent would be deposited by the Bank after loan
effectiveness. The special account would be replenished periodically when
statements reflecting transactions are sent by the government to the Bank.
The Bank would commence recovery of the initial deposit when the amount
undisbursed in the loan is equivalent to twice the amount of the initial
deposit (US$1.2 million). The project account, in the name of INIED, would
be opened with an initial deposit of US$0.4 million equivalent as part of the
government counterpart funds for the project. One-hundred percent of local
expenditures would be paid out of this account. The project account would be
replenished from the special account when the Bank's share is appropriately
documented; otherwise, it would be replenished by government counterpart
funds. The Bank's initial deposit of US$0.6 million equivalent will take
place when INIED establishes the project account mentioned above.
Accounting and Auditing
5.23      The Ministry of Education's accounting system is adequate for the
recording, reporting and certification of financial transactions related to



- 36 -
the project. Internal auditing of the Ministry's accounts is carried out on
a continuous basis by the Inspectoria, which performs this function
adequately. External auditing of all financial transactions related to the
public sector is the responsibility of the Contraloria General de la
Republica. Audit reports, including auditing of statements of
expenditures,would be furnished to the Bank after four months of the end of
the fiscal year. During negotiations the government provided assurances on
appointment of the project auditor and on the scope, format, content,
frequency, and timing of financial reporting and auditing requirements.
E. Status of Readiness
5.24      The proposed project is now ready for implementation.  The physical
implementation's unit's preparation group has received about US$370,000 from
the loan proceeds from the First Education Project (Loan 949-PE) to finalize
project preparation. These funds have been used to complete the following
activities:
(a)  selecting project school sites (about 30% of the total);
(b)  preparing standard architectural p:Lans and tender and contractual
documents for about 30% of the project schools (which would be
built during the first two years of project implementation, see
para. 4.06);
(c)  preparing master lists and tender and contractual documents for the
procurement of furniture and equipmient (70% of the total);
(d)  preparing seven textbook prototypes (about 50% of the total of
Phase I Table 4.2) and completing INIDE's textbook distribution
study;
(e)  preparing terms of reference for the textbook unit staff;
(f)  preparing detailed work and financial plans for the first two years
of project implementation;
(g)  scheduling further project preparation activities (70% of the
remaining civil works); and
(h)  preparing terms of reference for national and foreign consultants
who would be contracted during the life of the project.
F. Implementation Schedule
5.25     Project implementation would take approximately 84 months, assuming
a starting date of July 31, 1984, a completion date of December 1990, and a
closing date of June 1991. In order to assist in the effective and timely
execution, the Preparation Group has prepared a general implementation
schedule for the life of the project and a detailed implementation schedule
for the project's first year (Annex 6). The Coordinating Group would
annually review (June/July each year) the general implementation schedule in
order to identify potential problems which could cause delays and cost



- 37 -
overruns and to permit possible rescheduling of activities. During
negotiations, the government provided assurances that the Coordinating Group,
jointly with the Ministry of Finance, would annually update and review the
above-mentioned implementation schedule in line with proposed eypenditures
for the following year budget. This schedule would be sent to the Bank for
its comments by the end of each August during the life of the project,
coinciding with the preparation of the government's annual budget.
VI. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
6.01      Total project cost is estimated at US$46.8 million (US$45.0 million
net of taxes an duties) (or about S/135.0 billion net of tayes and duties).
The breakdown of total cost by project element and by category of expenditure
is summarized in Tables 6.1 and 6.2 below.
Base Cost
6.02      Cost estimates are based on May 1984 estimated prices.  Civil works
costs are derived from recent contracts for simple buildings representing the
type of facility included in the project and actual costs of the First
Education Project institutions taking into account recent price increases.
Base costs range from US$167/m~ to US$245/m2, given a per student place cost
of US$340, which is slightly below the Bank's median (US$350 at 1980
prices). These prices are high for small schools but reasonable considering
that three-fourths of the schools would require reinforced roofing and
earthquake-resistant walls. The range in prices is due to difficult access
to certain sites, particularly for the rural schools of Iquitos. In order
toreduce construction costs the project would:
(a) use local materials and simple technology for construction;
(b) seek community participation in school construction (particularly
in the rural areas); and
(c) use simple school designs, excluding complex workshops and
unnecessary school areas (e.g., gymnasiums and school cafeterias).
6.03      Furniture and equipment lists were prepared during appraisal and
would be reviewed during negotiations to ascertain that they are reasonable
In scope and costs. Teacher training costs are based on detailed estimates
of operational expenditures from similar INIDE programs. Textbook costs are
based on current production costs of similar materials in the private
sector. Cost estimates for professional services, administration and local
staff for the various elements of the project are based upon those obtained
under Loan 949-PE. Professional fees for school mapping, architectural
design and construction supervision have been estimated at 8% of the base
cost for civil works.
Contingency Allowances
6.04      Contingency allowances (US$12.2 million) have been added to base
cost estimates for:



-38 -
Table 6.1   SUMARY CF PRQJECW  GM BY PROUEC1 E[MNT
(Prices as of May 1984) (US$1.0 = S/3,000)
In S (million)            In US$ (illion)        % of
Objective and Project Element    local   Foreign Ibtal   local              Tbtal    Total
1. Provision of student places  56,224  15,436    71,,660   18.74    5.15   23.89    73.4
2. Q4ality improvemmnt
- School Management            419      302       721    0.14    0.10       0.24     0.7
- In-servioe Trainirg a/     4,821    1,437     6,258    1.61    0.48       2.09     6.4
- Txtbooks a/                7,974   7,983    15,957    2.66    2.66        5.32    16.4
3. Mangement -Improvement b/    1,784   1,290      3,074    0.59    0.43       1.02     3.1
Bseline Costs
(Qt of Taxes)                71,222  26,448    97,670   23.74    8.82      32.56    100%
76,620  24,448   103,069   25.54    8.82      34.36 c/
Contingencies
- Fhysical a/                6,329   2,221      8,550    2.11    0.74       2.85     8.7
- Price                     20,974   7,597    28,571    6.99    2.53        9.52    29.2
Front-end-fee (about US$67,500)    -      209       209      -      0.07      0.07
TUtAL PRJECt COST
(Net of Taxes)            98,525  36,475   135,000   32.84   12.16       45.00
103,923  36,475   140t398   34.64   12.16      46.80 c/
a/ TInudirg bilirgual education (about US$700,000)
b/ Ticludirg US$200,000 for future project preparation
c/ Includlig local duties and taxes on civil works and locaUly procured
furniture and equipient (US$1.8 million in para. 6.06).



- 39 -
Table 6.2:  SUMMARY CF PROJECr COST BY CATE (iF  CF EXPNDfrME
(Prices as of May 1984) (US$1.0 = S/3,000)
In S/(million)             In US$ 6IllTm)          % of
_ _                     Iocal   Fore       Total   Iocal               Total    Total
1. COnstruction
- Site Development           5,509    1,377    6,886    1.84        0.46     2.30      7.0
- Buldirg                   40.890    9,181   50.071   13.63        3.06    16.69    47.0
- Professional services      5,226       581    5,807    1.74       0.20     1.94      6.0
Subtotal                    50,625   11,139   62,764   17.21        3.72    20.93    60.0
2. Furniture                    7,170    1,608    8,778    2.39        0.54     2.93      8.2
3. EquipuEnt                    4,590    4,097    8,687    1.53        1.36     2.89      8.4
4. Textbooks                    6,702    6,702   13,404    2.23        2.23     4.46    13.7
Subtotal                     18,462   12,407   30,869    6.15       4.13    10.28    30.3
5. Technical Assistance
-Fellowhips                     33       621       654    0.01      0.21     0.22      0.7
- Exprt Services                82    1,568    1,650    0.03        0.52     0.55      1.7
- In-service trainirg        4,528       503    5,031    1.51       0.17      1.68     5.2
- Project Adinistration      1,890       210    2,100    0.63       0.07     0.70      2.1
Subtotal                     6,533    2,902    9,435    2.18        0.97     3.15      9.7
Baseline Costs
(Net of Taxes)             71,222   26,448   97,670   23.74        8.82    32.56
76,620   26,448   103,068   25.54      8.82    34.36 a/ 100.0
- Ehysical                   6,329     2,221    8,550    2.11       0.74      2.85      8.7
- Price                     20,974    7,597    28,571    6.99       2.53      9.52     29.2
Front-end-fee of
about US$67,500             -          209       209     -        0.07      0.07
TOTAL PRFRWBX COST
(Net of axes)               98,525   36,475  135L,O    32.84    12.16    45.00
103,923   36,475  140,398   34.64    12.16    46.80 a/
a/ Includirg loeal duties ard taxes on civil crks and locally procured furniture
and equxipmit (US$1.8 million in para. 6.06).



- 40 -
(a) unforeseen factors equal to 10% of base-cost estimates for
con-struction, in-service training, textbooks and project
administration, and 5% of base-cost estimates for furniture and
equipment, professional services, and technical assistance; and
(b) price escalation contingencies, as shown in Table 6.3 below. These
contingencies were estimated in US$ Dollar equivalents on the
assumptions that variations in the exchange rate would compensate
for the difference between local and international inflation.
Table 6.3 EXPECTED PRICE INCREASES DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(in annual percentages)
Year                  Conti ngenci es
1984                      3.5
1985                      7.5
1986                      8.0
1987                      7.5
1988                      6.0
1989                      6.0
1990                      6.0
1991                      6.0
Foreign Exchange Cost
6.05      The foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$8.8 million, or about
27% of the total baseline cost. Foreign exchange costs were calculated on
the basis of a breakdown of cost components and the analysis of local and
foreign exchange content and proportion of each component. They are
estimated at 20% of civil works, furniture, professional fees, local
fellowships and project administration, 50% for equipment and textbooks, and
95% for fellowships and consultant services.
Duties and Taxes
6.06      Local taxes on civil works and locally procured furniture and
equipment would amount to US$1.8 million or about 9% of the estimated cost of
these items excluding contingencies. It would be paid by the Borrower. No
customs duties would be levied on directly imported equipment and textbooks.
Recurrent Expenditures
6.07      When completed by 1991, the proposed project is expected to
generate additional recurrent expenditures of about US$6.7 million equivalent
per year (at 1982 prices). A summary of these expenditures is given in Annex
7. This amount would represent about 1.4% of MOE's total budget and 3.9% of
MOE's recurrent budget for the primary education subsector in 1982. The
implied additional effort appears manageable, particularly if the economy and
public finances start recovering from their current depressed levels.



- 41 -
However, there may be two potential sources of problems regarding the
financing of recurrent costs. First, teacher salaries are extremely low at
present (para. 2.35), while teacher militancy is relatively weak as the
result of the economic crisis. If the economy starts recovering, stronger
teacher unrest may force the government to make significant salary
concessions. Second, the share of primary education in total education
expenditures has been reduced in recent years. If the forces pushing in this
direction continue in the coming years, there may be increased difficulties
for financing project schools' recurrent expenditures along with the rest of
primary education.
B. Financing Plan
6.08      The total project cost of US$46.8 million (US$45.0 million net of
texes and duties) would be financed as follows:
(a) the proposed Bank loan of US$27 million would meet 60% of the total
project cost excluding taxes and duties (100% of foreign exchange
costs and about 45% of local costs); and
(b) the government would meet: (i) 40% of the total project costs,
excluding taxes and duties (US$18.0 million); and (ii) all taxes
and duties associated with the project (US$1.8 million).
C. Disbursements
6.09      The proposed loan, which would represent 60% of project cost net of
taxes, would cover the following:
(a) about 50% of total expenditures for civil works and professional
services for design and supervision (excluding amounts withheld for
performance guaranties);
(b) 100% of foreign and 80% of local expenditures for furniture,
equipment and textbook materials (paper, ink, glue);
(c) 100% for textbook development, printing and distribution; and
(c) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance, training
courses and project operating costs.
6.10      In order to ease the current financial difficulties, USAID has
indicated it is willing to finance part of the counterpart funds needed by
the government, during the early years of the project. In addition,
retroactive financing for about US$300,000 would be authorized for civil
works (see paras. 4.06 and 5.24), textbooks (see paras. 4.11 and 5.24), and
for further project preparations as noted in paragraph 5.24(g).
6.11      Disbursements would be fully documented, with the exception of
(a) claims for expenditures in respect of civil works by force account, (b)
per diems for teacher training courses, (c) and purchases of equipment and
materials under contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent. These would be
disbursed against statements of expenditures, the documentation of which
would be retained by the executing agencies for review during project
supervi si on mi ssi ons.



- 42 -
6.12      Disbursements are expected to occur over about seven years.  The
estimated schedule of expenditures and disbursement is shown in Table 6.4.
This schedule is more accelerated than the disbursement profile of the
previous education project in Peru (Loan 949-PE). It is expected that the
adopted normal disbursement profile for this operation would be
achievedbecause:
(a) the advanced stage of project preparation;
(b) the project organization for project execution (Diagram 5.1),
which involves all parties concerned in project implementation;
and
(c) the expected assistance of USAID (para. 6.10) in the financing
of counterpart funds, as a means to assist the government to cope
with its current fiscal difficulties.
Table 6.4:  ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
CY
and              Government                  Ban:k               Cumulative
Semester   Semester   Cumulative   Semester   Cumulative         Percentage
1984
2nd          0.60         0.60         0.50         0.50             4
1985
1st          1.18         1.78         1.40         1.90
2nd          0.87         2.65         1.00         2.90            12
1986
ist          1.14         3.79         2.00         4.90
2nd           1.89        5.68         2.60         7.50            30
1987
Ist          2.40         8.08         4.00        11.50
2nd          2.70        10.78         4.30        15.80            60
1988
1st          3.00        13.78         4.00        19.80
2nd          2.00        15.78         4.00        23.80            89
1989
1st          1.00        16.78         1.00        24.80
2nd          0.45        17.23         1.00        25.80            95
1990
1st          0.47        17.70         0.70        26.50
2nd          0.20        17.90         0.30        26.80            99
1991
Ist          0.10        18.00         0.20        27.00           100



- 43 -
6.13      In view of the difficulties experienced under Loan 949-PE in
provision of sufficient counterpart funds for timely implementation, a review
procedure would be established whereby the allocation of resources for this
project would be monitored. This review would take into account budget and
staff allocations for programs included along the implementation period of
the proposed project (see para. 5.25).
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The project is expected to improve primary education in poor urban
and rural areas of ten departments. It will have an impact on future
developments of the primary education sector by improving education
management (see relevant documents in Annex 8). Specifically, the project
outcomes and the target groups benefitting from the proposed investments
would be:
(a)  Project Outcomes.  At completion the Peruvian primary education
subsector would: (i) have some 50,000 additional student places
(Table 4.1); (ii) have produced and distributed about 3.0 million
textbooks, including 15 manuscripts; (iii) have trained about
21,000 Peruvian educators and school administrators (1,000 school
supervisors, 2,500 project school teachers and principals and
17,500 teachers and principals in the use of textbooks) through
in-service training courses; and (iv) have provided project related
technical assistance (specialist services: 206 staff-months and
fellowships: 60 staff-months).
(b) Target Groups. Some 76,500 school-age children would have adequate
places in the poor urban areas of the project departments and in
targetted rural areas and about 300,000 students would have
adequate textbooks and improved teaching. The students concerned
would have the opportunity to learn basic skills (literacy,
numeracy, personal hygiene, and some pre-vocational skills); this
would improve the productivity of those entering the labor market
as farmers and enable others to seek employment as unskilled but
literate workers. This group would also be prepared to continue on
to secondary schooling or to enter into non formal, on-the-job
training courses, which are organized for primary school graduates
by SENATI (The National Service for Industrial Training) and other
similar training institutes (SENCICO, EPPA, CECAPE).
7.02      The project would also assist the government in establishing the
institutional framework needed for continuous improvement of the educational
system. Under the project INIDE would be strengthened to coordinate and
monitor the in-service teacher training programs throughout the country.
INIDE would also improve its textbook development, printing and distribution
systems. The Physical Implementation Unit would strengthen its links with
the regional offices, enabling the local, provincial and municipal
authorities to foster community participation in school construction
activities. By 1988, both INIDE and the Physical Implementation Unit would
be ready to undertake preparation and implementation of the second phase of
the government's educational program, aimed at improving primary education in
rural areas.



- 44 -
Risks
7.03      The Bank's experience with Loan 949-PE (para. 1.01) and the
financial and managerial constraints of the sector (para. 2.27), have been
taken into account in determining the following risks concerning project
implementation:
(a) there might be delays in preparing school construction bidding
documents for the remaining schools (about 70% para. 5.24), which
may occur because of the lack of strong management of the Physical
Implementation Unit.   To miminize the risk, the Bank should not
enter into formal negotiations with the government until an
acceptable Director of the Coordination Group (para. 5.03) has been
appointed, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
(b) complications may arise because of the involvement of two separate
agencies (INIDE and INIED); therefore, close Bank supervision of
both agencies and monitoring of the Coordinating Group would be
required to avoid this risk;
(c) the government might be unable to provide timely counterpart funds
in the face of the economic stringency facing the country. To
minimize this risk, a working fund with government funds and a
working fund in United States Dollars (placed in the Central Bank
to be converted into Soles as needed) would be established to cover
investments for about three months (S/280 million and US$600,000,
respectively). Establishment of the working fund is a condition of
the loan (paras. 5.22 and 8.04); and
(d) project schools may be subject to future earthquakes. Therefore,
to minimize this risk, structural designs should be strong enough
to withstand earthquakes as strong as 7-8 on the Richter Scale.
Hence, the Bank should check the structural designs to ensure that
the above requirement is met.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the Bank reviewed and found acceptable the
following documents:
(a) The terms of reference for the director of the coordinating group
(para. 5.10); and for the INIED staff who would be involved in
project implementation, including their curriculum vitae (para.
5.11);
(b)  the terms of reference for INIDE staff who would be assigned to
the textbook unit and to the in-service training program (para.
5.13);
(c)  a copy of the textbook distribution plan (para. 4.14); and
(d) a list of INIED staff involved in project implementation
(para. 5.11).



- 45 -
8.02      During negotiations the government provided assurances on the
following matters:
(a)  all schools to be financed by the project would be located
according to criteria agreed upon with the Bank (para. 4.06);
(b)  recommendations of the seminar on school administrative practices
would be reviewed by the authorities concerned and those agreed
upon with the Bank would be put into operation (para. 4.10);
(c) textbook prototypes would be field-tested in accordance with
criteria agreed upon with the Bank (para. 4.27);
(d) a representative of the Ministry of Finance would be invited to
the meetings of the ]?roject Coordinating Group in which budget and
financial matters would be discussed (para. 5.02).
(e) INIED would take all reasonable steps to charge to qualified CORDES
the responsibilities for carrying out certain aspects of the
projects in respect of specific schools through adequate contracts
(para. 5.04);
(f)  qualified staff would be selected and retained in the textbook and
in-service training units of INIDE (para. 5.13);
(g)  appointment of the project auditor and the financial reporting and
auditing arrangement (para. 5.23);
(h) review of the project implementation schedule and the allocation of
resources (paras. 5.25 and 6.13);
(i) establishment of the working fund in the "Banco de la Nacion" with
two separate accounts and an initial deposit by the government
of US$0.4 million equivalent (para. 5.22); and
(j) contract the services of a private or international organization
that would execute the technical assistance program (para. 4.33).
8.03      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) a detailed plan for training senior personnel for INIED (para.
4.29);
(b) the approval by the Bank of a draft contract for the execution of
the technical assistance program with a private or international
organization (para. 4.33); and
(c) the contractual arrangements between the Borrower and INIDE
stipulating the Ministry of Education (including INIDE) and INIED's
participation in the project indicating transfer of loan proceeds
and budgetary resources (para. 5.02).
8.04      Subject to the above conditions the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a loan of US$27.0 mIllion equivalent to the Government of Peru at
terms prevailing at the time of the Board decision. This amount includes a
front-end-fee of about US$67,500.



-46-
Annex I
Page I of 2
GONPARATV  RWCATION INDICA  LSI
JurA 12, 1914
_CENTRAL                                  _                     _
+                  ~~~~~~~XPENDITURE   EDUCATION                   COMP LETION           RECURRENT
ON EDUCATION  X!C0RRENT       ADULT              RATE FOR              UNIT COST  PROGRESSION
GNP PER              AS PERCENT    EXPENDITURES  LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMIARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE FROM   SECONDARY SECONDARY HIGRER
EASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE           EIROLL. SCROOL       STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENROLL.  STUDENTS  ENROLL.
YEAR MILLS. (USS3   DEVOTED TO  GOVEtRNMNT    PRI  SEC  RI    (2)    RATIO   CTCLE              PER      AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO         PER       RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE            (X)        (1976)   (X)        (2)      TEACEER  GNP/CAPITA       (X)        (X)      TEACHER      (X)
(1)     (2)        (3)           (4)            (5)          (6)       (7)      (8)        (9)        (10)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES
AUSTRALIA          80    14.6b  R.870       6.38        14.6                              1030        I00         21       -             99           73        13      20.90
CANADA             81    23.7b  9,650b    7.78          18.5-Y      308? 348? 238?   ggb        106x      10(        21        19.9a?       100          92t       18       22.60x
GERMANY F.R.       79    61.2  12,200       4.6          9.98        -        -  -     99- b     89'      100-        --       --            1008         94-      --       12.10-
NETHERLANDS        79    14.0  10,490       7.9          5.1        20   35   25       99b?      96        9i         IS        15.3          99          82        13      12.40
NEW ZEALAND        80      3,2b  6,061b    5.5"          13.4       37   31   26       gg9      100       100         24        11.6         100          82        IS      25.80x
SWEDEN             79      8.3  12,250      9.0         18.2        31   10   10       ggb       99g     100         1i8       19.9         100           79x      l0sy    36.508y
EASTERN AFRICA
BOTSWANA           B0       .81,   720b    6.3P         19.3        4N   26   15       35b       94        74         32       22.0           33**        20       18        1.50
BURUNDI            81      4.2     235      2.8bw       19.0        43   28   27       23        290      35         37        20.2          12            30      17        1.00
COMOROS            80      0.4b    260      6.5"        25.4        40   28b  14       ---       99x       65i       45        16.0          58           21x      30        1.40
DJIBOUTI           84      0.4     480      8.0         11.9        73   26   ...    10          42       66         40        67.0          40           10       19        0.60
ETHIOPIA           81    32.8b    140b    2.9P          38.7        45   25   20       53        42        30'        63       19.3           93'         14       44        0.45
KENYA              79    15.3       390     5.9"        18.0b       71   15   14       45        92        74        40        15.6          41           19       28        1.00
LESOTHO            82      1.4b    435b    5.5          16.9        38   32   26       53b      116x      41         48         9.6          46          21        21        1.30
MADAGASCAR         77      8.5      330     4.0w        24.0        53   28   19       50        94bx      33        55b        8.0          38           14       23        3.10by
MALAWI             81      6.1,   2.30b    3.5          11.4        38   14   25       25b       62        23        65         5.8          12            4       21        0.40
MAURITIUS          80      0.9b  1,080b    6.0          11.5        39   40    7       80        87       78         22b       17.1          79          450       21        0.40
RWANDA             80      5.0b    200b    3.2          21.3        62   17   11       23b       57'      62         40        14.0           6           4'       13        0.40
SEYCHELLES         79      0.6   1,770      5.9         22.4a       34-  33a  loa    __                              25        ---           --          ---       ---      ---
SOMALIA            81      4.5     280      1.5         10.5        50b  44b   6b    50b         220      80b        29b        9.0b         80b         12b       22        1.00
SUDAN              S0    19.2b    380b    3.0           --          66   39   ...    32          51"A    68          34         1.4          44           16       16       ...
SUA2ILAND          90      0.6     760      7.9         16.8        41   34   15       65b       79       50         34        11.2          98          37b       18        2.50
TANZANIA           80    18.5       260     5.9         17.7        47   10   16       79b       90b      87         43        11.0          19b           3       208       0.30
UGANDA             90    12.6b    300b    --            16.1"       23b  37b  20b    48          540      61         34        ---           17            5       23        0.60
ZAIRE              78    27.5      210a    6.0w         22.0        49   26   25       15       B4y       44         42x       ---           41          133       27        1.10by
ZAMBIA             80      5.7b    566b    4.5P         11.1        48   23   22       44b       95       60         48        12.9          19          16        22        1.50
ZIMBABWE           81      7.7b    700b    5.1          19.5        62   32    6       44b      90        55         39        20.0          85          15        23        0.50
WESTERN AFRICA
SENIN              79      3.4b    3230    6.53         35.0        43   21    5    hjb          42       30         46        14.0          30           11       43        1.001
CAMEROON           76      9.2      590     2.9Y        16.OY       33a  430  208   ---          74Y      45"        50Y       11.8'         20'          14Y      26        1.301
C.A.R.             79      2.2     280      3.83Y       20.6aY      ---  ---  ---                            .       6         --            --          o-- -_              0.70'Y
sRAD               76      4.4      120     2.4b0y      21.7b                __  ___   15      25Y      ---         77                      ---  -      30y      21        0.20Y
CONGO              76      1.5      670     g.o-wy      27.7PY      ---  --3 --           ---    --                  56by0                   30          ---       43by      4.00?y
GABON              77      0.6   3,420      3.7by        B.4Y       --  ---  ---    ---          ---                 46by                    ---         ---       Igby      2.B0Oy
GAMBIA             77      0.6      220     3.3"'        6.5b       46   25a   6'    o0b         40b7     90'        27by      44.78         40           12b0y    17        ---
GHANA              76    11.3       400     4.01'       15.50       - -  ---  --    -           71b6y    _          27by      ---           ---         36bxv    21          -
0UINEA             79      5.3      290P    4.68p       --          25a  28a  28.  20            34       36         38        20.0aP        85           16       29        7.00,
IVORY COAST        61     R.3b  1,070b   10.0           45.0        33   46   13    30b         60        86         43        26.0          47          15axy    26         1.90'?
LIBERIA            90      1.9     520      4.6         19.6        43   23   24    30           52       32         35        20.0          76          22        20        2.90
MALI               61      7.0b    190      4.2a        21.7'       38   21   11    10           20       60         44        15.7          66            1       11        0.9087
MAURITANIA         76      1.60    3200    5.5          16.9        33   43   25    170          32       60         44        52.0          30           9        25        0.37
NIGER              76      5.2      300     4.3'Y       16.6ay      523  43a   5-    B           17       560        41-       38.70         40            2       24b       0.201
NIGERIA            77    82.6      910      4.1Y         9.6        ---  ---  --   --            ---      ---        ---       --            --          1oxy      25        0.17Y
SENEGAL            77      5.5     450      5.0         23.0        46   34   20    10           340xy    __         43by 0                  20          10        21        2.20by
SIERRA LEONE       77      3.4     250      4.0b        16.Ob       ---  ---  ---   15b          370      --         35        25.0b         84          15'       22        0.60by
TOGD               78      2.4      400     6.5qo       26.5q       30a  2Ba  210   18           74       40          54by     36.0          52          32bxy    48b        1.60by
UPPER VOLTA        78      5.6      180     3.0"'       19.30Y      31   16   32    -            15by     23         53by      52.5?         19            3b0y    25        0.02y
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
ARGENTINA          78    27.3   2.210       2.7         10.9        43a  310  19a   93b          89       52          17       --            87           31        B       23.00
BAHA1AS            79      0.2   2,770      5.7         19.1        36   36   11    93b          99       97         24        ---           97          75        19       ---
BARBADOS           78     0.2   2,680       8.5awy      22.10       43a  31a  16a   ggb         100Y      998        271y      19.98         998         78y       20y      ---
BOLIVIA            90      5.4     550      4.1ay       30.5a        -- --- --   63              74y      --         20y       ---           ---         15y       ---      12.60y
BRAZIL             79   116.5   1,770       3.8          6.2        51         14    76          738Y      --        230y       4.5b         61'         15-Y      148Y    12.62b
CHILE              76    10.9   1,890       3.2by       13.0b                __   _  _        119bxy    --         34by      ---            ---        55b0y    20b?    11,90by
COLOMBIA           80    26.70  181a0b    3.3           25.0        35   20   20    8lb          78       36         32         6.6          --          47        20       10.02ay
COSTA RICA         90      2.2b  16100b   8.4           31.1        40   27   33    90         .93        77         33         5.5          77          40        27       14.00
C0RA               78      9.8     ---      8.0         11.0         --  ---  ---   96         112bxy    98         1sby      ---           98          71bxy    15        19.02by
DOMINICAN REP.    80       5.3   1,030      2.9         13.0        39   21   22    66b          60        31        59         3.2          94           30       33       16.00
ECUADOR            80      8.40  1,110      6;0P        36.7        45   31   16    81          105       --         36        12.6          86          47        16       29.00
EL SALVADOR        77      4.4     640      3.4by       23.1by      64    8   27    62           62b0y    32         39        ---           41          26bx0    27by       7.90by
GUATEMALA          78      6.8   1,010      1.78y       12.6b        --  --- ---     -          69b0      --        35by       ---          69           15bxy    1gby      5.507
GUYANA             76      0.8      630     8.1by        13.8by     --- ---  --           ---    99bxy     ---        32hy     --             ---         s900y    --        3.00by
HAITI              80      5.0b    230      3.4w         7.9ay      65    9    6    23b          50       20         41        19.0          628          4'       27        0.80
HONDURAS           78      3.6      500     3.5by       14.3by      62-  150  198   60           89bxy    308        41by      12.8*         68-         21xy      19        8.007
JAMAICA            80      2.1   1,110      6.5         13.7        37   43   20    90           98       98         40         2.3          95          81        22        8.00
MEYICO             80    65.5   1,880       4.7         17.0a       46   39   15    92           98        53        44         9.5          86          56        17       10.30
NICARAGUA          78      2 6b   610b      3.0bw       14.00-b -- -                 -   go0b    85bx     24         37b       ---           --          26bx      30b      __
PANAMA             78      1:8b  1.550      5.5bly      21.8by      428  13a  13    82b          95by     ---        25by      11.6           85-        50by      27by    20.40by
PARAGUAY           79      3.0   1,140      1.4"        14.2b       42   17   20    84           83       32         28         3.Ir         76          22b       12        0 70
PERU               80    16.6   1,000       3.6         11.0        53   15   19    90           90       56         39         9.8          89           47       22       16.0U11
TRINIDAD 6 TOB.   77       1.1   3,910      4.8by        8.8by      48   32   20    95           98       91          30        10.5?        49          62        24        --
URUGUAY            78      2.9   2,500      2.5          9.4b       ---  --   ---   94          105bx      --         24b      ---            --          64bx     -        17.80ay
VENEZUELA          78    14.4   3,440       s.1Y        18.9,       __  ___  __   82            106bx      ---       28        ---            ---         38b6     17       21.10?



-47'.
Anne I
Page 2 of 2
COHPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
Jun 12, 1984
_  _   _                 CEIIT2AL -CENTRAL
COVERINCIIT
UPIOtITUM         ISDUCATION                    COltLET1OH           aMCUtMliT
Z            ~~~~~ON EDUCATION  RCURRENT    ADULT             RATE FOR              UNIT COST  PROCRESSIOF
GNP PERa             AS PERCENT    UXPzNDITURES  LITERAC  PRINAU  PRIMIARY    PRIART  PRIKAMY    RATE FROW.  SECCONDARY S ECONDARY EIlCH8R
BASE  POP. CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE          ENROLL. SCHOOL       STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENROLL.   STUDENTS  ENROLL.
YER  MILLS. (USS)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNNT    PRI  SEC  HI    (2)    RATIO   CYCLE              PER      AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO        PER       RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE           (S)       (1976)   (2)         (X)     TEACHER  GNP/CAPITA       (2)         (2)    TEACHER      (2)
(1)     (2)        (3)           (4)           (5)         (6)       (7)       (8)       (9)        (10)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHINA              81   996.0b    300b    3.6           8.3        34   39   27      69b       80       63         23         7.0          72         38        17        3.70
INDONESIA          81   150.5b    520       2.1         9.3        70   24    6      32b       98       61         37        11.0          74         27        26        3.70
KOREA              82    39.3b  1,636b    7.7'         20.8        34   34   31      96        99        98        43        19.0          98         84        38       21.80
MALAYSIA           81    14.2b  1,788b    5.2          22.0        32'  37w  15w    60b        96*x     97         22        12.2'         87         658       19        3.70a
PAPUA N.G.         83     3.08    820      5.4         19.0        40   17   22      -         60       738        31*       15.0          35          13::     27z       1.00
PHILIPPINES        79    48.3b    690b    2.8w         14.0        64   36***---    75b        84       65         31         7.1          89         55        36       21.00
SINGAPORE          80     2.4   4,420      2.7          6.7        39   40   16      83        92       82         31         8.8          96         55        22        8.00
SOLOMON ISL.       80     0.2      460     4.2Pw       10.08       41   34   20      __        60       80         26        --            35         18        --- 
THAILAND           80    47.3b    723b    3.4          20.9        59   15   13      86b       96       __         17         9.3          59         29        22        4.00
SOUTH ASIA
BANGLADESH         79    92.3b      90      1.lP       10.1*3      51   17   20      22b       639      -          53         5.6          __         14        23        1.43
INDIA              77   659.6      210     2.9y         9.9gw      _      _          36        79:      __         41        ---                      28:       --       8.30ay
NEPAL              82    15.0b    150b    1.4         --                             19        70       -          38        ---           _          21        23        3.70*
PAKISTAN           79    79.7      270     2.Owy        5.1y       39   26   27      24        564      80s        48         6.5          51         20:       17        6.00
EUROPE. MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH APRICA
APHGANISTAN        77    15.5      ---      1.7         3.7        47   19   15      12        31by     69         37b       __            62           8       22by      1.00y
ALGERIA            79    18.3   1,770       3.8       12.3        34a  268  218    35         83Y      458        37         7.0?         55*        29Y       26        3.70y
EGYPT              81    43.0b    580b    3.1aw         4.5        31a  35*  26-    44         84x      80s        34         9.8*         83*        43        19       15.00a
GREECE             76     9.3   4,140       2.6'       10.6b       37   26   21      --        97by     --        23b         6.2?                    79b6      27by    17.80by
IRA?!              79    36.9      ---     5.7aY       14.1ay      ---  ---  ---    50        1olax     __         32-       --            ---        44*-      248       4.90*Y
IRAQ               79    12.6   2,710      4.3ay        6.9aY      ---  --  --                100y      ---        28        ---          -           45*y      29*       9.30ay
IRELAND            81     3,4b  4,480      6.34y       1180        __ __            98        93       94         29        __            98         81        14       11.00
JORDAN             81      2.2b  1.420b    4.9'        10.2        19   44   18      70b      1081      85         32         7.2          91         82'       25       19.00
LEbANON            79      2.3     --      ---        18.6-       ---  ---  ---    --         96       --         19        ---            _         466'      --       27.80*Y
MOROCCO            80    19.5      740     6 3a'       17.5a       36   44   20      28        56y      35         39        19.7          40         25:       21        4.50
OMAN               82     0.9b  5,920b    2.5a         12.78       ---  ---  ---    30b?       71'      65         25        ---           86          11       14
PORTUGAL           79     9.8b  2,060      3.6         22.2        50   28   11      78        97       20         Iga       12.8         88*         45'       17a      8.30'
ROMANIA            78    22.1   2,100       3.9by       6.2Y        --  --- __       98       106b6:     --        23b       _             98         84b6      22b      10.60by
SPAIN              76    37.0   4,920      2.1y        16.87       ---  ---  ---    -_         987b      ---       29b       ___          ---         67by      --       24.10by
SYRIA              78     8.6   1,170      4.4P        10.3        39   23   26      58        87by     80         35h       ---           68         41bY      21b      12.60
TUNISIA            79     6.4   1,130       7.OP       19.0        42   39   18      62b      20o0      80         39b       12.8          30         30:       30        6.00
TURKEY             81     4,7b  1,460b    3.1          26.2        ---  -_ ---    73b         118X      9Q4        28         7.9          51         38        20        6.70
YEMEN A.R.         80     6.8      420      5.Opw      12.0        94    7    7      21b       37       12a        38Y       67.0          85          3        20        1.10
YEMEN P.D.R.       82     2.Ob    420b    7.6           9.7        63a  j4a   8a    53         61       34         25        22.Oa        46          17        20        2.50
SUMMARY FOR DRVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NvMber of Countriea:                    84              94       70   69   67      76       88        64         94       62            72          91        86      85
Range:                                  (1.4-           3.7-  (19-  (7-  (5"    (8-        (15-     (12-        (17-     (1.1-         (6-         (2-       (8-     (0.01-
10.0)         45.0)  94)   46)  36)    99)        119)     99)         77)       67.0)        99)         84)       48)     29.0)
Quartiles: Upper:                        5.6           20.8      52   35   21      nO        96       79         42        20            85         45        25       10.6
Median:                      4.0           15.5      43   27   18      52        83       60         35        12            61         25        21        3.7
Lower:                        3.5           20.5     37   18   13      24        56       35         27         7            40          13       18        1.0
Qoortile Deviation:                      1.1            5.1    7.5  9.0  4.0   23.0        20.5     22.5        7.5      6.4          22.5        15.5       8.5       4.8
Mean:                                    4.5           16.1      46   28   18      53        75       60         36        16           60          31        21       6.9
Standard Deviation:                      1.9            7.4      13   10    7      30        26       25         11        13           27          23         7       7.4
MediOan:                                 4.0           15.5      43   28   19      53        83       61         35        12           61          25        22       3.7
SYMBOLS:                                                     FOOTNOTES:
--  DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                           A - DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR                         S - MINISTRY OP ZDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
...  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                                B - DATIUM MORE RECENT THAN EASE YEAR                T - MOE AND STATE GOVERNMENT ONLY
?  DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                        N - CURRENT PRICES                                    W - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
*  INCLUDES PART-TIME STIUDENTS                               P - GDP                                              X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
Y - UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES:                                                                                                                         E - LOWER SECONDARY ONY
Coloens I sod 2: World Bank Atlas or IBRD :ieeions.
Colooso 3 to 14:  IBRD nlasiensa  Gov-rnnent asrooc. and/or Unesco Stattatical Yarbook.
Comparative Education Data are useful in the evaluation of various educ-tion systems and analysis of relative stages of educational developeent between varIous
countries.  However, on the basis of the present date, cross-national comparison should be approached with great caution.  Data presented in the above table have
been collected largely by Bank missions froe government sou'rces; the reminder are ataff estimtes or data fros Uneaco. Efforts have been mde ts atandardise
definitions and, within limits, to check the acc-r-cy of the date. Ne-ertheless, such data are still Imperfect in aeveral respects and the Bank is working tE
improve them progressively on the occasion of its operational work. Is the use of theae data, the following qualificationa should be kept in mind:
(1) -Edocation" as defined in the table includes all education and training, both formal and non-formal.
(2) "Primary' education refers to education at the first level and "aecondary" edscation refers to all education at the secondary level regardless of type
(e.g., general, technical, agricultural).
(3)  -Literacy rates" (col. 6) are often obtained fro. country censuses.  In many countries they are only approxmations and it is doubtful that any unitfor
definition of "literste" has been followed consistently.
(4) -Public empenditure in education" (cols. 4 and 5) refers to all capital and recurrent expenditures devoted to edocation by public and quasi-public
agencies.
(5) "Enrollment ratios" (cols. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are the percentage of eligible children enrolled full-time in the appropriate school,
public and private by level. They are often subject to a wide margin of error In the developing countries owing to variaticns in the accaracy of basic
data (i.e., age-specific population and enrollments). Enrollment figures frequently are higher than the number of students actually in school. Over-aged
students whose Inclusion is indicated by footnotes also can inflate the ratios.



- 48 -
ANN   2
PERU-
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJ;ECT (Education II)
The Education Svs tem
RfIornwd System (a of 19721                Nw Adnittion'S Proposd Systm
(Oraf Education LaWI
UNIVERSITY:
Of ard III Cyc leUninersitV                                          IV LEVEL - Higher Education
I(Grades 13 thru 17)                        Technical/
_______,,i.                                       | Vocational
III LEVEL - Higher Education              T21
18~~~7
E SE PI                    17                     th Yr.
(Gdes 10 -12/13)                                        4th Yr.  S  a
t   li                                 _    3rd Yr. n           II I LEVL - Secondary Education
9th Grade                                       2nd Yr.
3th Grde                                        lst Yr.
____ ____ ____ ___ __ _      13.      _   
7th Grade 
6th Gnds                                       6th Grade
il -LEVEL - Basic Eduration                             .        t, -        .
A. Reular (F ormal 5I  Grade                                                         5th Grade
B. Lbabr-oiented                                                 10th Grade          Sth Grod*      _
(Non4formal)                                         --- _.
4th Grads                                      4th Grade
.......... .....                                    EVEL - Priary Educaon
3rd Grade                                      3rd Grade
2nd Grade                                      2nd Grade
......... . ?..._....
let Grada                                      Ist Grade
iI~~~~~~~~~ ~~5    tIL
........ ... _....... .
I LEVEL - Prachool               Pr,4chool Education                             Pr-echol Education      I LEVEL - Pr-school
(Ags 3-6 Yanl) 
Age
3) Escuele SuPerior de Educacion Profesional (a voational-oriented rchool)
21 Ptogrrn equivlyent to that of ErEP
Word Bunk-2296S



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (Education II)
School Textbook Needs
(1983-1987)
Public         Book/
Education      Student      Nos. and      Total
Grade     Students        Ratio         Titles       No.       Remarks
(1981)
1         840,000          1:1      1  Beginning
Reading       840,000  On tryout
1 Writing
Workbook       840,000  On tryout
1:2     1  Science Text  420,000  To be developed
1 Social
Studies Text  420,000  To be developed
2         560,000          1:1      1 Mathematics
Workbook       560,000  On tryout
1:2     1  Spanish
Reader         280,000  On tryout
1  Science Text  280,000  To be developed
I Social
Studies Text  280,000  To be developed
3         500,000          1:2      1 Mathematics
Text          250,000  To be developed
1 Spanish
Reader        250,000  To be developed
1  Science Text  250,000  To be developed
1 Social
Studies Text  250,000  To be developed
4         400,000          1:2      1 Mathematics
Text          200,000  To be developed
1 Spanish
Reader        200,000  To be developed
1  Science Text  200,000  To be developed
1 Social
Studies Text  200,000  To be developed
2,300,000                 16               5,720,000
Source: Ministry of Education and Bank staff estimates.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (Education II)
Puno Bilingual Textbook Program
Grade & Subject                  CY1985         CY1986         CY1987         Total
Grade 1
Reader-Quechua                   Printing                     Printing
Workbook-Quechua                 Printing      Printing       Printing
Reader-Aymara                    Printing                     Printing
Workbook-Aymara                  Printing      Printing       Printing
Teacher's Guide                  Printing                     Printing
Spanish Language                 Printing                    Printing
Teacher's Guide                  Printing                     Printing
Vocabulary Posters               Printing                     Printing
Subtotal                          40,000        16,000         45,000        101,000
Grade 2
Reader-Quechua                   Try-out       Printing       Printing
Workbook-Quechua                 Try-out       Printing       Printing
Reader-Aymara                    Try-out       Printing       Printing
Workbook-Aymara                  Try-out       Printing       Printing
Teacher's Guide                  Try-out       Printing       Printing
Reader-Spanish                   Try-out       Printing       Printing
Teacher's Guide                  Try-out       Printing       Printing
Math Workbooks                   Try-out       Printing       Printing
Teacher's Guide                  Try-out       Printing      Printing
Subtotal                            - 1/        53,000         26,000        79,000
Grade 3
Reader-Quechua                   Try-out       Try-out        Printing
Reader-Aymara                    Try-out       Try-out        Printing
Teacher's Guide                  Try-out       Try-out        Printing
Reader-Spanish                   Try-out       Try-out        Printing
Teacher's Guide                  Try-out       Try-out       Printing
Math                             Try-out       Try-out        Printing
Teacher's Guide                  Try-out       Try-out        Printing
Subtotal                            - 1/          - 1/         40,000         40,000
Total                       40,000        69,0(00       111,000        220,000
1/   Try-out costs carried under agreement with GTZ.



-51-
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT. (Education II)                                           ME 5
In Service Training Programs
FRllRM         PhARICIPAIS    StNRA1S (N:   TRAENRS        LOC&TICI CF (th           1986       1987        1988     MKAIAIS
1. In-service     1,000 Super-  a) school    re INDE         Department capitals    25                               School
training         visors at        adsinistra staff per                              one-week                        Ad mnrstration
program for      deprtment,       tion       seidnar.                               semtna                          Guidelines
miervisors       zone, sector                Contracted
and provin-                 persons
cial 1el,
in ten
depnts                                                                        25
of project    b) teacher                                                      one-week             G          for
training                                                    seminars             Teaber Training
and text-                                                                        Now Texts axd
book usage                                                                       Teacher Guides
c) evaluation                                                             25
of student                                                             one-week  Evaluation and
achievement                                                             semnars  Supervision
Guidelines
d) comnLity                                                               25
relations                                                              one-ek  National Program
semlnars  for Ccxumty
Develnt
2. In-service     2,500         a) oirrinaljn One 1NDE       1oc1 centers                       60
traing         scool            plang   staff per                                            one-ieck             Sciool Admlris-
porgram for    principals                  semlnar.                                          seminars             tration Guide-
school         and teacbers                Contracted                                                             line and New
principals     in ten                      persos                                                                 Curriulum
and teadcers   de ents                    9Supervisors                                       60
in project     of project    b) textbodc                                                     one-weec             New Texts and
schools                         usage                                                        aesinars             Teachers Guides
c) evaluatio                                                              60
of student                                                             ora-week  Guidelines for
achievement                                                             sainars  Evaluation of
Studeit
Achievement
d) ccmuity                                                               60
relatin                                                                one-wek   Naticnal
seminars   Program for
Conuanity
DeelEnt
3. Orientation    17,500        Textbokc      Supervisors    Local centers                      400        400
sessions on    scool prin-  usage                                                            one-week  ore-week   New Texts and
textbodo       cipals and                                                                    semnars  sIdnars   Teachers Guides
Usage          teach. using
nf texts



-52 -
PERU                                                               ANIEX 6
PRUMAR  ElEkll PiEllECr (Education II)
Imnplemetaticn Schedule
Project                Fiscal Year           1985                1986                1                   1988                1989                1990
Canwnents      _       Qiarters       1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2    3  4             1   2    3   4    1   2    3   4    1 2   3   4
A. PRWF STMSRUICN                                                                                                     ;_ __
A.1 Recruitnent of Coordination
Group
A.2 Adainistration period            o'_                                                                                                              mm_c
B. CIVIL WDWS
B.1 Site Selection                 'Co   -   _    _   _
B.2 Preparation of Standard
Plans and Bid Dousments          - _ _     _       _ _
B.3 Constriction through
Conpetitive Bidding               :ooc -     _    -   _            _   _    _                  -   - _        
B.4 Construction by Force Accont                                                                                                            XXX _ ___ _   _
C. F1jBNIDJRE AND 1WIEPN
C.1 Preparation of Master List
and Standard Bid Doaments   xxxooc xxcKx
C.2 Procurement                                c     c     ~     ~      - - - -mc
D). PROFESI(NAL SEPVICES
D.1 Lesigns                                                        m _ -   -  _ -  c
D.2 Supervision                              'c cs----------'ccx
E. T1al%X FRXGPM
E.1 Preparation Studies and
Printing                                  m       c      .    -    -    -     -c
E.2 Teacher Orientation and
Textbooks Distribution               _c                         -                     _                                _          __ _ _cc
F. IN-SUQ CETRAUWC                                        c cAI-  _                                          _
M N1CAJL ASSISfBE                                                                   j
G.1 Specialists                                    _XK
G.2 Fel wships                          I           _tz                i                                                              I   I          I       _
3        4    1 2     3   4    1   2    3   4    1   2   3   4     1   2   3   4     1   2   3    4    1                 2
19418                              198                 1987                1988                1989           19



- 53 -
ANNEX 7
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION II)
Project Incremental Recurrent Costs by 1991
Project Component                                          Amount
(US$000, at 1982 Prices)
A.   Primary School Facilities                                   5,243
Staff Salaries                                              3,693
Consumable Materials I/                                     1,050
Utility Bills, Maintenance, Repairs 2/                        500
B.   Improved Quality                                            1,410
In-service Teacher Training                                   637
Textbook Replacement                                          700
Textbook Development and Distribution                          73
C.   Improved Management                                            29
Improved MOE Budgeting                                         24
INIED and INIDE Staff Training                                  5
Total:                                                      6,682
I/   Consumable materials (pencils, paper, classrooms aids, etc.) are
included for project schools' students (equivalent to about
US$17/student-year).
2/   School repairs and maintenance, equivalent 1% of the project school
construction cost is also included in the operational expenditure.



ANNEX 8
-54-
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (Education II)
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.    Gbneral Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al - Arriagada, Ana Maria. Determinants of Sixth Grade Students
Achievement in Peru.
(Washington, World Bank - Education Department, January 1983)
(mimeo).
A2 - Peru: Basic Education Subsector Memorandum, the World Bank,
June 1981 (mimeo).
A3 - Schiefelbein, Ernesto. Peru: Problemas del Financiamiento de la
Educacion (Washington, World Bank - LCPED - October 1981) (mimeo).
A4 - Peru: Major Development Policy Issues and Recommendations
(Washigton, World Bank Report 34-38. PE, April 27, 1981).
A5 - Educacion: Contribucion al Desarrollo Socio-economico, UNESCO,
1978.
B.    General Reports and Studies on the Pro.ject
Bl - Peru: Consideraciones para la Ampliacion inmediata de la
Cobertura de la Infrastructura Educativa (Documento de Trabajo) -
Ministerio de Educacion, Lima, Peru, Febrero de 1981.
B2 - Identificacion Preliminar para la Implementacion de Infrastructura
Educativa para Areas Rurales y Sub-Urbanias.  Ministerio de
Educacion, Lima, Peru, 1981.
B3 - Analysis F~isico - Educativo de las Localizaciones en los Distritos
Seleccionados - Proyecto de Implementacion de Infraestrura -
Primera Etapa. Ministerio de Educacion, Lima, Noviembre de 1981.
C.    Selected Working Papers
Cl - School Textbook Program. The World Bank, 1981.
C2 - Dutcher, Nadine. Peru. The Present State of Bilingual Education
(Washington, The World Bank, January 5, 1983) (mimeo). Bilingual
Education, Puno, (October 11, 1983).
C3 - Costos Unitarios Basicos para Obras Civiles. Gbbierno del Peru,
1981.
C4 - Costos Unitarios Basicos para Obras; Civiles. Gbbierno del Peru,
1981.
C5 - Programa de Asistencia Tecnica: Costos, Terminos de Referencia y
Cronograma de Ejecucion. (bbierno/Banco.



