Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7266-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Fourth Programmatic Social Reform Loan
)
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 16 , 2004
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7266-PE 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated October 
29, 2004 describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty through social reforms in the 
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 (C) 
on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making a loan in one 
tranche (the Loan) as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions:  Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), with modifications set forth below, 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency.  The Bank, at the request and acting as an 
agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn 
from the Loan Account currencies as shall be required to meet payments 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $99,500,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account designated by the Borrower 
and acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of 
an amount of the Loan into said account, such amount or an equivalent amount is credited 
in the Borrower’s accounting system to an account, acceptable to the Bank, that finances 
budget obligations. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Bank.  
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan
,
subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time
.
On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on  January 15 and  July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has made a request, the Borrower 
shall pay to the Bank any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 2.10. 
The Borrower’s Minister of Finance or the Borrower’s Director 
of Public Credit, and any person whom he or she shall designate in writing, is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article 
V
of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish through 
the Office for Coordination of Sectoral Loans of the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy 
and Finance to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Bank may, from time to 
time, reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower 
or its agencies to reverse any action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, 
Page  7
-
6
-
in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the 
Program. 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower 
or its agencies to reverse any action listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
The date March 16, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Jr. Junín 319 
 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(511) 426-8500 or 
 
(511) 426-9822 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/ Pedro Pablo Kuczynski 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Marcelo Giugale 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
2. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
 
parts thereof; fuel 
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %
)
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning January 15, 2013 through January 15, 2018 
8.33% 
 
On July 15, 2018 
8.37% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  13
-
12
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either:  (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
1. 
The Borrower’s Executive Power has approved and submitted to the Borrower’s 
Congress the draft Budget National System General Law (
Ley General del Sistema 
Nacional de
 
Presupuesto
)
allowing the Ministry of Economy and Finance as well as its 
Ministries of Health and Education, when applicable, to sign management agreements 
(
Convenios
 de Administración por Resultados
)
with entities at the national, regional and 
local levels. 
2. 
The Borrower has delivered a memorandum from the Budget Director of its 
Ministry of Economy and Finance, indicating that the priority social programs’ 
(
Programas Sociales Prioritarios
)
budget execution has reached, as of August 31, 2004, 
87% of its budget execution target for the period January-August 2004 (target measured 
proportionally to the execution of the first eight months of the years 2001-2003), with 
individual reallocations of budget across programs not exceeding 30% of the total budget. 
3. 
The Borrower has approved Supreme Decree No. 171-2003-EF, Supreme Decree 
No. 130-EF-2004, Presidential Resolution No. 057-CND-PE-2004, Ministerial 
Resolution No. 681-2004-MIMDES (
Directiva de Estímulos y Sanciones)
 and Directoral 
Resolution No. 047-2003-EF/76.01, all of these to regulate the transfer of food programs 
to municipalities. 
4. 
The Borrower has delivered a report from the Ministry of Women and Social 
Development, indicating that budget transfers for food programs to municipalities during 
2004 have followed a pro-poor formula as established in the 2004 budget. 
5. 
The Borrower has published on the website of its Ministry of Economy and 
Finance a strategy document and action plan describing policies aimed at increasing 
coverage and efficiency of existing pension systems, as well as an implementation 
strategy to carry out said plan. 
6. 
The Borrower has made sustained progress in selected health areas, namely: (i) 
2.6 million children under five years old and 501 thousand pregnant women (equivalent 
to 618 thousand annualized) have been covered under the Borrower’s integral health 
insurance (
Seguro Integral de Salud
)
from January 1, 2004 to August 31, 2004; (ii) the 
percentage of births attended by qualified personnel went from 51% in 2002 to 59% in 
2003; and (iii) the expenditures for the Borrower’s integral health insurance program in 
levels I and II health centers have been 82% of total expenditures for said system in 2003, 
as evidenced by a report prepared by the Borrowers Agency in charge of the Integral 
Health Insurance. 
Page  15
-
14
-
7. 
The Borrower’s reform of the human resources system of its Ministry of 
Education has advanced, as evidenced by a report prepared by said Ministry, indicating 
that, as of August 31, 2004, 90% of executing units were paying teachers through a 
payroll system, covering 85% of the teacher population; 69% of teachers’ payroll and 
positions had been cross-checked and cleaned-up; 60% of said Ministry’s executing units 
had rationalized the term-contract teachers in their jurisdiction; and 90% of teachers were 
paid through the Borrower’s integrated system of financial management (
Sistema 
Integrado de Administración Financiera
). 
8. 
The Borrower has designed and started to implement a transparent and 
participatory monitoring and evaluation system for its priority social programs 
(
Programas Sociales Prioritarios
)
with an emphasis on results and decentralization, as 
evidenced by a report prepared by its Ministry of Economy and Finance. 
9. 
The Borrower has approved Supreme Decree No. 002-2004-MIMDES to 
improve its regulations for the purchase of food for food-aid programs by provincial 
municipalities.
 
