Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
CONCEPT STAGE
Report No.:  AB1119
Operation Name
PE
-
Programmatic Social Reform Loan IV
Region
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
Sector
Other social services (40%);Health (25%);General education 
sector (20%);Non
-
compulsory he
alth finance (8%);Compulsory 
pension and unemployment insurance (7%)
Project ID
P083968
Borrower(s)
REPUBLIC OF PERU
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Environment Assessment
OD 4.01 applies?  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Date PID Prepared
Septemb
er 28, 2004
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization
October 14, 2004
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval
December 7, 2004
1.
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
When a transitional government took over in Peru in 2000, the economic a
nd social situation was at a 
critical point. The GDP was falling.  Fiscal conditions were weak.  Access to social services by the poor 
was limited and affected by serious efficiency problems and a total lack of monitoring and evaluation. 
As the new governm
ent began its term, efforts in both the economic and social fronts were focused on 
stabilizing and guaranteeing continuity of programs and beginning a redesign process to improve the 
overall situation. In that context, the Bank provided support though the 
Programmatic Social Reform 
Loan, approved in April 2001, with a focus on social expenditure, transparency, and rationalization.
The economic situation has significantly improved in Peru since 2000. Growth has been sustained since 
2001 and reached an avera
ge of 4.5 percent in 2002
-
03 (and is expected to continue at that level in 2005
-
06). This growth was obtained in a context of austerity, as fiscal management has been consistent, 
leading to a steady improvement in public accounts. Public sector deficit has
 been declining, going from 
2.2 percent of GDP in 2002 to a projected 1.4 percent in 2004, and the 2005 budget projects to further 
reduce it to 1 percent of GDP.  
In the social sectors, efforts were focused on improving the profile of social expenditures
, increasing 
access by the poor to basic services, and eliminating a culture of secrecy and lack of transparency. As 
the Government designed and began developing its medium term program, the World Bank supported 
the  process,  first  by  promoting  the  adoption
  of  clear  policy  principles  and  goals,  and  then  by 
collaborating in the implementation of the different programs, supporting the policy agenda through the 
Programmatic Social Reform Loan, and more specific actions through investment loans in Health and 
Edu
cation.  As  the  Government  began  advancing  towards  decentralization,  a  specific  adjustment 
operation to support its implementation was prepared (DECSAL) and some areas of the PSRL were 
adapted to provide support to the social programs through the decentrali
zation process.
PSRL IV will be the last stage of the programmatic support the Bank provided to the Government of 
Peru in its effort to reform the social sectors. As such, the focus of the loan and the rationale for the 
Bank’s involvement is the consolida
tion of reforms designed or implemented with support of previous 
operations. By completing the transition towards a more open, accessible system with stable financing 
Page  2
and transparent management, the PSRL IV is strongly increasing the sustainability of refo
rms introduced 
in Peru’s social sectors in the last four years.
2.
Proposed objective(s)
The PSRL program of reforms has now extended to four stages, in a period of over four years. In a 
changing institutional and economic environment
—
adapting to two diffe
rent governments, at least 
sixteen ministers and many more lower level officials in the three social sectors
—
the program has 
preserved its three original goals to:
(i)
improve the antipoverty focus of public expenditures; 
(ii)
 increase the access of the poor to q
uality health and education services; 
(iii)
enhance the transparency of social programs, while empowering their 
beneficiaries in their design and implementation.  
3.
Preliminary description
To achieve these objectives, the PSRL program has supported the adoptio
n of policies and actions in 
five areas:  (i) social expenditures management, (ii) redesign, targeting, and administration of social 
protection programs, (iii) access to health services, (iv) access and  efficiency in  education, and (v) 
transparency and acco
untability in the social sectors. Most reforms aimed at improving the institutional 
framework where policies are designed and implemented and adjusting the design and implementation 
of programs when necessary. The five areas and the main triggers and bench
marks supported by the 
program are as follows:
(i) 
The Shift to Social Expenditures and Countercyclical Social Policy: 
(a) 
Since PSRL I, the program has promoted the adoption of a medium term strategy in the 
assignment of resources to the social sectors. This su
pport resulted in the preparation of a 
Macro Social Framework (MSF), as part of the Multiannual Macroeconomic Framework 
2005
-
07, which provides a medium term framework to design and plan social policies.
(b) 
Budget allocations to priority social programs (PSPs
) have been protected since PSRL I 
to  ensure  adequate  service  provision  in  critical  programs  in  a  context  of  fiscal 
retrenchment. From 1999 to 2003 expenditures on PSPs have doubled from 0.5% to 1% 
of  GDP,  and  both  2004  and  2005  budgets  continue  to  assign 
more  funding  to  these 
programs. 
(ii) 
Redesign, Targeting and Administration of Social Protection programs:
(a) 
During  its  early  stages,  the  PSRL  supported  the  design  and  implementation  of  an 
emergency workfare program. As the economic situation began to improve, t
he workfare 
program was reduced and better targeted, and support for its implementation was not 
necessary on PSRL IV.
(b) 
Food programs, instead, still have a major role in social policy, as more than two
-
third of 
the  poor  households  have  some  type  of  access  t
o  these  benefits.  PSRL  supported  a 
revision to make them better targeted and more transparent, promoting the use of poverty 
maps to assign resources. A “pro
-
poor” formula to distribute funds was adopted, and 
PSRL IV supports the implementation of several i
nstruments linked to its application and 
monitoring.
(c) 
Two critical areas of the pension system were revised with support from PSRL. First, the 
civil servants scheme, a highly subsidized and unequal program, was reformed, reducing 
fiscal  and  equity  problems,
  and  the  Government  has  proposed  (and  advanced  in  its 
approval process) a Constitutional amendment to close it. Also, the institutional design of 
Page  3
the  sector  was  improved,  defining  responsibilities  for  strategy  and  policy  making 
decisions and adopting the g
oal of coverage expansion as an overall objective of the 
system.
(iii) 
Access to health services: 
(a) 
With  support  from  PSRL,  Peru  has  reformed  its  basic  model  of  health  management, 
provision,  and  financing.  The  increasing  role  of  the  regional  health  departments 
(“
DISAS”) improved the accountability and transparency of the system, as DISAS are 
signing  results  agreements  with  the  Ministry  of  Health  and  publishing  monitoring 
indicators. 
By 
supporting 
the 
expansion 
of 
community 
managed 
health 
centers 
(“CLAS”),  the  prog
ram  empowered  local  communities  and  beneficiaries.  Finally  the 
creation of a basic health insurance scheme (“SIS”) resulted in a large scale increase in 
the provision of health services for mothers and children, with near
-
universal coverage by 
the end of 2
003
(iv) 
Access and efficiency in education:
(a) 
In one of the most difficult sectors in Peru, the PSRL program on education supported 
reforms aimed at improving efficiency, equity and quality of education in Peru. While 
some  aspects  of  the  Government  program  (in 
particular,  those  related  to  immediate 
increases in quality) have found serious obstacles, the Bank strongly supported reforms in 
the Ministry of Education Human Resources management system, resulting in a much 
model. The new model was implemented with sup
port from PSRL IV, at a pace that 
largely exceeded expectations
(v) 
Transparency and Accountability in the social sectors:
(a) 
One of the goals of PSRL was to enhance the governance of the system affected by a lack 
of government transparency, increased levels of 
corruption, poor accountability, and little 
opportunity for citizen participation. With support from the PSRL program, the GOP 
designed 
a 
strong 
monitoring 
and 
evaluation 
system, 
open 
to 
participation 
of 
communities  and  individual  citizen.  PSRL  strongly  en
dorsed  the  development  of 
“Ventana Amigable”, a web based public information system which is providing timely, 
trustful and disaggregate information that enables civil society organizations and citizens 
to track budgets and public expenditures; and the ins
titutionalization of all participatory 
processes. 
(b) 
PSRL supported important changes in procurement procedures for the social sectors that 
resulted in increasing transparency, economy, and efficiency, namely,   introducing e
-
government (with the creation of
 a web based procurement portal for more than 600 
public agencies) and unifying the supervision and control rules in public procurement.
4.
Environment Aspects
As the loan focuses on reforming social policies and institutions at the macro level, we do not f
oresee 
any significant impact on the environmental situation in Peru. Actions included in the policy matrix aim 
to increase access to basic social services by the poor by improving fiscal and financial conditions and 
strengthening the institutions involved
 in service delivery.
While some of the proposed actions are related to the health system, they do not have an environmental 
effect, directly or indirectly,  since they focus on the institutional arrangements between the central 
government and local autho
rities, the development of mechanisms to improve community control over 
health services quality, and a financial scheme to provide care for mothers and children under five years 
old.
Page  4
5.
Tentative financing
Source:
($m.)
BORROWER
0
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE
CONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT
100
Total
100
6.
Contact point
Contact: Rafael P. Rofman
Title: Sr Economist
Tel: +54 11 4316
-
0663
Fax: +54 11 4313
-
1233
Email: rrofman@worldbank.org
