                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 34780-PE

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-72660)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                     TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU




                                                 FOR A

                            PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM LOAN IV




                                              April 28, 2006




Human Development Department
Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective April 28, 2006)

                         Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol
                         1.0 Nuevo Sol = US$ 0.29
                                US$ 1.0 = 3.38

                                FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 to December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADSSTAL      Accountability for Decentralization in the Social Sectors Technical Assistance
             Loan
AFP          Administrator of Pension Funds (Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones)
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
CAF          Andean Development Corporation (Corporación Andina de Fomento)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CGR          National Controller's Office (Controlaría General de la República)
CIAS         Interministerial Commission on Social Affairs (Comisión Inter-Ministerial
             para Asuntos Sociales)
CLAS         Community-Managed Health Centers (Comunidades Locales de
             Administración de Salud)
CND          National Decentralization Council (Consejo Nacional de Decentralización)
CONSUCODE    National Council for Contracts and Procurement (Consejo Superior de
             Contrataciones y Adquisiciones del Estado)
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Report
CV           Pension System for Public Sector Workers (Cédula Viva)
DECSAL       Decentralization and Competitiveness Structural Adjustment Loan
DISA         Regional Health Department (Dirección de Salud)
ENAHO        National Household Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Hogares)
ESSALUD      Social Security Health Institute
ESW          Economic and Sector Work
FONCODES     Social Development and Compensation Fund (Fondo Nacional de
             Compensación y Desarrollo Social)
GDP          Gross domestic product
GOP          Government of Peru
ICR          Investment Completion Report
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IFI          International Financial Institution
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INEI         National Statistical Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas e Informática)
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF          Ministry of Economic and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
MIMDES       Ministry of Women and Development (Ministerio de la Mujer y de Desarrollo)
MINSA        Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
MMM          Multiannual Macroeconomic Framework (Marco Macroeconómico Multianual)

MOE       Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educación)
NGO       Non-governmental organization
ONP       Office of Pensions Administration (Oficina de Normalización Previsional)
PCM       Presidency of the Council of Ministers (Presidencia del Consejo de Ministros)
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PRONAA    National Program of Food Assistance (Programa Nacional de Apoyo
          Alimentario)
PSAL      Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
PSP       Protected Social Program (Programa Social Protegido)
PSRL      Programmatic Social Reform Loan
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
SEACE     Electronic System for State Purchases and Contracts
          (Sistema Electrónica de Adquisiciones y Contracciones del Estado)
SIAF      Integrated System of Financial Administration (Sistema Integrada de
          Administración Financiera)
SIS       Integral Health Insurance (Seguro Integral de Salud)
SNP       National Pension System (Sistema Nacional de Pensiones)
SPP       Private Pension System (Sistema Privado de Pensiones)
TAL       Technical assistance loan
UPS       Unified Payroll System



                    Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                  Country Director       Marcelo M. Giugale
                    Sector Manager       Helena Ribe
                Task Team Leader         Rafael Rofman

                                             PERU
                          PE-Programmatic Social Reform Loan IV


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37

Project ID: P083968                                                  Project Name: PE-Programmatic Social Reform Loan
                                                                     IV
Team Leader: Rafael P. Rofman                                        TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 1, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: PE-Programmatic Social Reform Loan IV                    L/C/TF Number: FSLT-72660
   Country/Department: PERU                                                               Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (40%); Health (25%); General education sector (20%); Non-compulsory
                            health finance (8%); Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (7%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Social safety nets (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (S); Child health (S); Nutrition and food security (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/27/2004                                     Effective: 12/17/2004                12/17/2004
     Appraisal: 10/12/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/07/2004                                      Closing: 12/31/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF PERU/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:                 Helena Ribe                                    Helena Ribe
Team Leader at ICR:             Rafael Rofman                                  Rafael Rofman
ICR Primary Author:             Fred Levy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The formal ratings presented in this ICR and the discussions in Sections 3 to 7 focus on PSRL IV, the final loan of
the PSRL series, which was approved by the Board in December 2004. An extended Section 8 will discuss,
evaluate and set out the lessons learned from, the overall program from its beginning (1).

Although a number of factors--e.g., an improving macroeconomic situation, the increasing political priority of
governmental decentralization, and progress made and lessons learned in the course of program
implementation--have resulted in changes in relative emphases and specific program elements over time, the
overarching goals of the PSRL program have remained essentially the same:

·        Improving the anti-poverty impact of public expenditures via the coordinated implementation of a clearly
articulated social strategy, increased efficiency, pro-poor targeting and impact evaluation of social expenditures,
and the budgetary protection of key social programs during periods of fiscal stringency;

·        Increasing the access of poor families to quality health and educational services, particularly in the rural
areas, with specific focus on the expansion of insurance coverage and improvement of maternal and infant health
care services for populations in the lowest two income quintiles, and improved human resource management in the
education sector and enhanced teaching incentives for rural teachers; and

·        Increasing the transparency of social programs and enhancing the participation of the poor in their design,
monitoring and evaluation through the expansion and improvement of information collection and dissemination
and the promotion of mechanisms of consultation, social dialogue, program oversight and feedback.

In order to ensure continued improvements in transparency and participation and in the pro-poor targeting and
efficiency of social programs, PSRL IV continued to give high priority, initiated under PSRL III, to the
implantation of a sound normative framework and the development of procedures, monitoring and evaluation tools
and incentives to guide the transfer of resources and functions to the sub-national governments. As the final
operation in the series, focus was also on consolidating the gains made under previous operations. By this time too,
many of the specific measures designed and initiated under the PSRL program were being carried forward and
their implementation supported by the Bank through specific investment and technical assistance loans as well as
by assistance from other donors.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
PSRL IV proposed to further the above objectives by continued support to:

·        Reorienting government expenditures toward programs to reduce poverty, including the budgetary
protection of specific social programs;

·        Improving the design, targeting and administration of social protection programs, with particular
attention to food distributions and the public pension system;

·        Improved access of the poor to health services through continued expansion of coverage and improved
targeting of the public insurance program for maternal and infant care;

·        Greater efficiency of human resource management in the education system and improvement in the
quality of rural primary education; and




                                                        - 2 -

·        Greater transparency, civil society participation, and accountability of government officials in the
prioritization, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of government expenditures in the social sectors.

As in the preceding loans, each of these components was linked to a number of specific actions, and
implementation involved several government agencies. These sub-components are discussed and assessed in
Section 4 below.

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no QAG review of PSRL IV. The conclusion of this ICR is that quality at entry was Satisfactory.

As in the case of its predecessor operations, PSRL IV was able to draw upon high quality economic and sector
studies as well as extensive discussions with both government and civil society. The objectives being pursued were
entirely relevant to and consistent with the priorities set out in the Government's own program and with the
aspirations being expressed in the public debate that has characterized Peruvian discourse over the past four years.
The information systems, whose development was supported by the earlier PSRL loans, provided a growing source
of data that, along with pilot projects and other analytical work that accompanied the program, made it possible to
refine objectives and performance indicators. The operation also benefited from studies and technical assistance
financed by PPF and PHRD funds. Development of the M&E system was hampered, however, by continued delay
of a long-expected Bank technical assistance project. PSRL IV was fully consistent with the Peru CAS. Indeed, the
PSRL program itself came to a considerable degree to shape the Bank's overall strategy and assistance program in
Peru, as set out in the 2004 CAS Progress Report.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
PSRL IV's principal achievements are set out in Annex 1A. The overall outcome rating for PSRL IV is
Satisfactory. All of the formal triggers for PSRL IV were met as prior actions for Board presentation. The
systematic attention now being given by Peruvian government and civil society to the reduction of poverty, to the
rationalization of public expenditures, and to the promotion of transparency and popular participation is
unprecedented. Important forward steps taken under the present operation included pension reform, where vested
interests had successfully resisted the efforts of previous governments, the establishment of a normative framework
for the decentralization of social program administration, expansion of maternal and infant medical care insurance
coverage, rationalization of the teacher pay system, and the establishment of a web-based procurement system for
the food distribution programs. Institutional change, however, is necessarily a slow and not always unidirectional
process. Although there is evidence of positive shifts in attitudes, technical difficulties as well as political and
bureaucratic resistance to some of the reforms, including rationalization of the food distribution programs,
continued expansion of the community co-managed primary health centers, and the development and implantation
of an effective M&E system for the social programs, have not been completely overcome.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Improving the anti-poverty focus of public expenditures by protecting funding levels and promoting
better targeting.

PSRL IV supported four sets of actions to improve the anti-poverty focus of public expenditures:

·        Formalizing the government's commitment to poverty reduction through the inclusion of social spending
priorities and objectives in the Multiannual Macroeconomic Framework (MMF), and by enacting the legal norms
to govern related management agreements between MEF and the sector ministries and other entities of the
national, regional, and local governments;




                                                          - 3 -

·         Improving the protection of budgetary expenditures for six Priority Social Programs (PSPs);

·         Establishing a normative framework to ensure the pro-poor targeting of food distribution programs, and
their transparency and monitoring, as both resources and implementing responsibility are transferred to the
municipal governments; and

·         Continuing reform of the public pension system through the publication of a strategy for increasing its
coverage and efficiency, the initiation of a time-bound action program for achieving the specified objectives, and
an information system to monitor and disseminate the results.

The first three of these sub-components supported the continued progress of initiatives that had formed part of the
PSRL program from its beginning. The approach to the third sub-component had been adapted under PSRL III to
the acceleration of decentralization. Pension reform was also added to the program under PSRL III.

Assessment:

The outcomes under this component are rated Satisfactory, the institutional development has been Substantial,
and sustainability is Likely.

The incorporation of the Government's anti-poverty objectives into the MMF, which is formally approved by the
Council of Ministers, and the inclusion of social indicators into the model underlying its projections, have served to
give greater political weight, commitment, and analytical rigor to the social policy agenda, while strengthening its
operational significance for the allocation of fiscal resources. The newly enacted General Law for the National
Budget System, establishes norms for management performance contracts between MEF and other governmental
agencies that will incorporate, inter alia, these social objectives. In a striking expansion of its historical role, these
initiatives also reflect the substantial engagement of the planning and budgeting functions of MEF in the design,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of an anti-poverty social agenda (2).

Budgetary protection for the PSPs was continued, along with closer monitoring to ensure that the resources
allocated would not be diverted from the intended investments and expenditures on materials to personnel costs.
Actual expenditures on the six PSPs during 2004 reached 91 percent of their budgeted amounts, exceeding the
minimum 85 percent agreed under PSRL IV, and major shortfalls and resource diversions seen in some programs
under the earlier loans were largely avoided (3).

Continuing attention to the reform of the food distribution programs focused on establishing a normative
framework to ensure that their pro-poor targeting, transparency, and monitoring would be preserved and extended
as resources and responsibilities were progressively transferred to the municipal governments. A substantial body
of laws and regulations have been enacted that, inter alia, establishes the procedures and eligibility criteria for
local governments to receive transfers and assume administration of the programs; sets out allocation criteria for
food assistance based on economic and nutritional need; and defines the contractual and organizational
arrangements for managing the transfers and for monitoring and evaluating the results. By the end of 2004, 125 of
the 194 provincial municipalities had signed management agreements with MIMDES under these rules.
Nevertheless, only a small proportion (15 percent) of PRONAA's food-aid budget was oriented toward programs
emphasizing nutritional objectives or toward the target population of children under five years of age.

Finally, PSRL IV supported the completion and publication of a strategy and action plan for extending the
coverage and improving the equity of the high-cost, narrowly based, and heavily subsidized public pension system,
and regular publication of the results. Further progress was also made in cleaning up the rolls and improving
collections, including of the additional premiums on higher-bracket pensions added to the Cédula Viva (CV)
system under PSRL III. In the event, the Government went considerably beyond its commitments under the loan by
achieving passage of a constitutional amendment closing the expensive, inequitable, and much abused CV system
to new entrants, eliminating the indexing of its benefits to the salary levels of active public sector workers, and



                                                          - 4 -

making any future changes in the public pension system contingent on their fiscal sustainability. This amendment
represented a significant breakthrough that had eluded the efforts of previous Administrations and was followed by
a new law tightening the rules for setting upper limits on pensions and directing that the related savings be used to
raise pensions in the lowest brackets.

(b) Increasing the access of poor families to quality health and educational services.

Actions supported by PSRL IV to improve the access of the poor to quality health and education services included:

·        Continuing expansion of the Integrated Health Insurance (SIS) program's coverage of infant and maternal
care, and strengthening the focus of SIS expenditures on primary health care facilities;

·        Strengthening the monitoring of management agreements between the Ministry of Health (MINSA) and
the Regional Health Departments (DISAs), and introducing quarterly reporting of their goals and results to the
public;

·        Significant further progress in rationalizing human resource management in the public education system,
extending coverage of the Unified Payroll System (UPS) for teachers to provide sector authorities a long-missing
information base and a mechanism to control the growth and allocation of sector resources, eliminate improper
payments, and shift teaching positions from over-staffed schools to areas of need; and

·        Continued pilot testing, consultation, and evaluation of a system of incentives for rural teachers and the
initiation of pilot testing of merit incentives.

Assessment:

The outcomes under this component are rated Satisfactory, the institutional development has been Substantial,
and sustainability is Likely.

Health
Peru succeeded in cutting the national rate of infant mortality by more than half (from 64 to 30 per thousand live
births) between 1992 and 2002, but the rate remained very high at 60 per thousand in the rural areas. Maternal
mortality also declined significantly (from 23 to 16 per thousand live births) over the same period, but remained
exceedingly high in the poorest rural regions. The SIS was created with the support of the PSRL program in 2002,
with particular focus on infant and maternal care. Since then, its number of affiliates and scope of coverage have
grown rapidly.

PSRL IV supported the continued growth of coverage of infant and maternal care services, targeting the lowest 40
percent of the income distribution and care offered through primary health posts and centers. Particular attention
was given to correcting the tendency, evident in the previous two years, to direct SIS resources increasingly to
tertiary health care and more specialized services in the urban centers. Coverage targets were exceeded in 2004,
reaching almost 90 percent of pregnant women and children below the age of five years, although there was a
shortfall in the growth of the proportion of expenditures allocated to primary health centers. There is still ample
room for improving the targeting of SIS expenditures, as recent analysis by MEF shows the higher-income regions
receiving a significantly higher level of public health expenditures per capita (including under the SIS) than the
poorer regions.

The loan attained its instrumental objectives for achieving better management control, monitoring and
transparency of decentralized health expenditures with management agreements now in effect between MINSA
and all DISAs (4). and quarterly progress reports being made available on MINSA's web page. No longer
explicitly supported by PSRL IV, the rapid progress and positive results achieved under the earlier operations in
the expansion and strengthening of locally managed health clinics (CLAS) slowed over the past year, losing
momentum as the effective "unionization" of its medical staffs limited its implementation (5).



                                                        - 5 -

Education

Despite rapid expansion in the numbers of schools and enrollments over the past decade, and a favorable average
student/teacher ratio, resources remain highly concentrated in the richer urban areas, and the quality of education
and student performance generally remains very low by international standards. Although personnel costs
accounted in 2004 for 87 percent of the public budget for basic education (6). teachers are poorly paid, poorly
trained, and often devote considerable time to other jobs outside the school system. In addition to seeking to ensure
the maintenance of budget allocations to basic education, the PSRL program has focused on improving human
resource management in the system, including cleaning up the wasteful and often corrupt administration of teacher
salaries, the introduction of merit criteria in the setting of salaries and of special incentives to improve teacher
attendance and attract good teachers to the rural areas, and the assignment of teachers among schools in
accordance with school needs. The program has also promoted parent participation in these efforts at the school
level.

The UPS has now been extended to cover virtually all basic education teachers in the public sector (with the
exception of some 2 percent of teachers who work in remote areas), substantially exceeding the targets agreed
under PSRL IV. As a result of meticulous cross-checking of information from various data bases, there is now a
comprehensive inventory and matching of teachers to defined positions and payment of salaries in accordance with
the level of the position (7). It is estimated that around S/ 32 million was saved in 2004 as a combined result of the
adjustment of pay levels and the removal of "phantom" teachers from the payroll, and S/ 60 million in savings is
projected for 2005. The electronic payment of salaries through the SIAF system to designated bank accounts has
also eliminated previous abuses facilitated by check payments. The process of reassigning teachers from schools
with excess teachers to schools with unfilled positions has also begun (8). This increased transparency is expected
to facilitate the passage of a new teacher career law, prepared in draft, which would, inter alia, introduce merit
criteria and incentives into the pay system. Long vehemently opposed by the powerful teachers' union, this reform
now appears to be attracting crucial support from younger teachers as well as from civil society organizations. In
the almost complete absence of reliable records of teacher educational backgrounds, experience, or performance,
however, considerable ground work remains before a merit-based salary scale can be introduced and teacher
salaries properly aligned to it.

After a slow start under the earlier loans, the pilot testing of rural teacher incentives and the establishment of
parent participation in monitoring made important progress under PSRL IV. An independent external evaluation
of the experience thus far has verified a positive impact of both the incentives and parent monitoring on teacher
attendance in the schools. The pilot was extended for the 2005-2006 school year to evaluate the impact of these
measures on student performance and to test incentives linked to student improvement as measured by
standardized tests. It may also be combined in some areas with a new program offering family cash allowances to
qualified poor families, contingent, among other things, on student attendance.

(c) Increasing the transparency of social programs and enhancing the participation of the poor in their
design, monitoring and evaluation.

Improved governance, transparency, and participation of the poor were promoted under PSRL IV by support to:

·         The implementation of a transparent and participatory, results-oriented M&E system for the PSPs,
adapted to the process of decentralization;

·         Effective implementation of the Law of Transparency and Access to Information, with dissemination of
information on the decentralized social programs reaching the local communities and the latter increasingly
involved directly in program targeting and monitoring; and

·         Improved regulation and transparency of the procurement of foodstuffs for the food distribution programs.




                                                          - 6 -

Assessment:

The outcomes under this component are rated Satisfactory, institutional development, although potentially
substantial, is thus far Modest, and sustainability is Likely.

The PSRL program from its beginning has given substantial support to the creation of mechanisms and processes
to make government more transparent and participatory, with particular attention to social programs in general
and to the PSPs in particular. With the Government's decision to advance the decentralization process, it became
urgent to focus these efforts on the decisions and actions involved in transferring resources and responsibilities for
administrating the programs to the regional and local governments. Toward that end, PSRL IV has supported the
design and enactment of a body of laws and decrees that, inter alia, mandates and defines the process of
participatory budgeting to be adopted by the sub-national governments, including the establishment of monitoring
systems with local community oversight (Comités de Vigilancia) at the local level. The laws require that the
sub-national governments be in compliance with this latter requirement, as well as with the Law on Transparency
and Access to Information, to qualify to receive these transfers. Regular six-monthly reports evaluating spending
on the PSPs and their results are to be disseminated; the first such report is currently under preparation.

Participatory M&E mechanisms are being established in the social sectors, with links to the SIAF financial
information system. As indicated above, these transparency and participation initiatives are also being reinforced
through the management contracts between MEF and the social sector ministries and between the latter and the
sub-national governments. Nevertheless, considerable work remains in defining the performance indicators and
establishing effective M&E systems. Difficult technical problems have emerged in linking outcomes to budgetary
expenditures under the SIAF system. The law mandates the establishment of a national, high-level, intersectoral
committee, with civil society participation, to oversee the M&E system, but it has apparently not yet met. Local
oversight committees have been constituted in a large number of municipalities, but so far with considerable
variation in their effectiveness.

Commitments under PSRL IV to establish the regulatory framework for a transparent and efficient mechanism and
bidding process for the procurement of foodstuffs for the food distribution programs have been fully met, and the
system is now operating under the supervision and control of CONSUCODE. This should substantially reduce the
opportunities for corruption and resource diversion under these large and formerly opaque procurement programs.
The food programs continue to operate under conflicting objectives, however, with cost minimization tempered by
legal requirements that procurement give preference to small local producers using domestic inputs, and that prices
not be less than 80 percent of local production costs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial institutional development impact has been achieved under PSRL IV. MEF's role as a center of policy
planning, monitoring, and evaluation, as well as resource allocation, for the social programs of the government has
been effectively consolidated through the strengthening and expanded mandate of its technical staff, the enhanced
anti-poverty orientation of the MMF, the further extension and improvement of the SIAF, and the introduction of
government-wide management agreements. Although not an explicit commitment under PSRL IV, the
constitutional amendment to close the CV to new entrants and to de-link pensions from the salaries of active public
sector workers was a major achievement that makes possible the design of a more equitable and fiscally affordable
public pension system and removes a major obstacle to meaningful reform of public sector salaries. Although
further strong consensus-building and data collection efforts are required before full overhaul of the teacher pay




                                                         - 7 -

and incentive system can be completed, the full implementation of the UPS has been an important advance in that
direction.

The immediate objectives of PSRL IV with respect to the enactment of a normative framework for the
decentralization of the food distribution programs were achieved, but the long-term effectiveness of this framework
will only be demonstrated as the decentralization process plays out. Of continuing concern is the social value and
efficiency of the programs themselves, as only a small fraction of the resources allocated are in practice dedicated
to the government's stated nutritional objectives and effectively targeted to clients in greatest need of this
assistance. With support from the ADSSTAL, progress is now being made toward the institution of M&E systems
for the social programs, but considerable work remains to be done at both the national and local levels to make
them effective. Also still at an early stage is the extension of participatory processes from the priority-setting and
planning stages of social programs, where they are now broadly established, to M&E.

Further advances have been made in extending and improving the transparency of government activities at all
levels, and the development and expansion of web-based contracting is increasing the efficiency of government
procurement and reducing the scope for corruption.

 Fiscal protection of the PSPs was more effective under PSRL IV than under the earlier operations. This
commitment, in effect since the beginning of the PSRL program, has succeeded in fortifying the priority of social
expenditures in the face of fiscal retrenchment and competing spending demands, and has directed needed
attention to the assessment of these programs' efficiency and impacts. At the same time, however, it has increased
the rigidity of an already highly inflexible budget, and it remains arguable whether this is a desirable approach to
promoting anti-poverty objectives in the longer term.

Finally, while substantial progress continued to be made under PSRL IV in expanding coverage of the SIS,
pressures are still strong to direct its resources to the provision of services of greater benefit to the urban non-poor.
Progress in the expansion of the CLAS, supported by earlier PSRL loans, slowed down in the last year of the
program.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
While the Government itself was responsible for many of its political difficulties and weakness in the face of the
inevitable resistance to reforms, it also faced deeply entrenched interests and attitudes that under the best of
circumstances would take a long time to change. On the positive side, high international commodity prices and low
interest rates eased somewhat the resource constraints on the economy and the budget and allowed greater attention
to the social agenda and to longer-term strategic planning.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government maintained sound macroeconomic policies that encouraged domestic and foreign private
investment in the economy and the resumption of strong economic growth. Cabinet reorganizations continued to
threaten progress in implementing the reform program, but the clear mandate given to the social agenda and
reform-minded teams at the technical levels in MEF and the sector ministries were able to prevent major
disruptions. In several areas, most effectively with regard to the reform of the public pension system, the
government made a concerted and successful effort to build public consensus and political support behind its
program. Effective control has also been maintained over the pace and design of the decentralization process,
avoiding potentially serious diversions of resources and reversals of the progress made in targeting, transparency,
and the expansion of opportunities for popular participation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MEF, through its Department for Economic and Social Affairs (DGAES) has taken on increased responsibility
for the coordination of the Government's social policy agenda, including its funding, monitoring and evaluation,
and has continued to play a strong role in ensuring implementation of the PSRL program.



                                                           - 8 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of reforms implemented under the program is rated as Likely. As discussed at greater length in
Section 8, the PSRL program is still a "work in progress" even with the completion of PSRL IV. The laws that
have been passed (e.g., to close the CV, and to guide the decentralization of social programs) received substantial
political backing, and the systems that have been put in place or extended (e.g., the UPS and the SIAF) are
demonstrating clear value-added both to government officials and to civil society. These institutional achievements
now appear well established and unlikely to be reversed. The full realization of the reforms they make possible,
however--e.g., in a more equitable pension system, more effective poverty reduction programs with greater
transparency and participatory monitoring, improved teaching and educational performance, etc.--depends on
continued progress at the technical level and, more importantly, in building public understanding and consensus.
Despite the political weakness of the present Government, the momentum and popular support for these changes
appears strong. Key elements of the work in progress, moreover, will continue to receive substantial support under
the Bank's other programmatic, investment, and technical assistance loans and non-lending activities, as well as
from the IDB and other donors. This support will be especially important to avoid any backtracking during the
forthcoming electoral period, especially in view of the ongoing process of decentralization.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance is rated Satisfactory. As its predecessors, PSRL IV benefited from strong
staffing, with skills and experience appropriate to its programmatic elements, and from the maintenance of close
contacts between the Bank's local staff and counterparts. Design and implementation also benefited from strong
sector work, including work on a new poverty assessment, and from close coordination, including overlapping
staffing, with the preparation and implementation of related technical assistance and investment loans. Problems
created by the delay of technical assistance lending were mitigated by the use of PPF and PHRD funds to pay for
pension studies and M&E. The operation also benefited from better control of program scope and the number of
commitments in comparison to the previous operations. Good coordination, particularly at the field office level,
was maintained with other multilateral and bilateral donors.

On the negative side, a potentially difficult situation was created during negotiation of the loan contract, as the new
rules and requirements introduced by OP 8.60 (which replaced the old Structural Adjustment Loans with the
Development Policy Loans) were not completely clear for the Government. Some delays were unavoidable, but the
good will and hard work of government officials and Bank staff in Washington and the Country Office avoided any
further problems.

7.2 Supervision:
Inasmuch as PSRL IV was a final, one-tranche operation, with all commitments met prior to Board presentation, it
did not require formal supervision. Staff and counterparts have continued to monitor and discuss program
performance, however, in the context of ongoing sector work, some of which is aimed at discussions with the new
government to be elected in 2006, and the implementation/preparation of other loans, several of which are
offshoots of the PSRL program.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.



                                                         - 9 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in the preparation of PSRL IV is rated Satisfactory. The institutionalization of the social
policy agenda within the government and of the responsibility for its design and oversight in MEF, as well as the
experience and confidence gained from the first three operations, led to smooth and efficient preparation of this
final operation in the program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's overall implementation performance is rated Satisfactory. In several areas, particularly with
regard to reforms of the pension system and of the teacher pay system, the government successfully undertook a
determined and well-organized technical and consensus-building effort to overcome long-standing and politically
difficult obstacles that had blocked progress on the social agenda as well as public sector reform more broadly. It
has also worked effectively with Congress and civil society to responsibly manage the difficult process of
decentralizing social programs. It has been less forceful, however, in sustaining reform momentum in some other
areas, such as the food distribution programs.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance has been Highly Satisfactory. With accumulating experience and a
strengthened commitment and mandate for pushing forward the government's social policy agenda, MEF has been
an effective coordinator of program implementation across the multiple components and the several agencies
involved. The MEF team worked well with counterparts in the sector ministries, helping to sustain program
continuity despite ministerial changes, and has made good use of the information systems (e.g., SIAF) and
administrative instruments (e.g., management agreements) whose development itself was supported by the PSRL
program.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The first Programmatic Social Reform Loans (PSRLs) was approved by the Board in June 2001, as a Structural
Adjustment Loan. The PSRL program was originally planned to include two or three loans, but the positive
assessment of social policies and sustained advances in the overall economic program of Peru led the Bank to add a
forth and final operation, in the form of a Development Policy Loan. The program was initiated by the Transition
Government that followed the resignation of President Fujimori in November 2000 and has continued since July
2002 under the Government of President Toledo. The relative emphases and detailed components of the PSRL
program evolved over time, but the overarching objectives of the program remained as described in Section 3.1.
The political and institutional context was significantly changed by the government's decision to decentralize the
administration of social programs. Although the Bank had long urged such decentralization in Peru, its initiation
occurred sooner than anticipated, and program elements for PSRLs III and IV had to be adapted accordingly.

PSRL I was conceived, negotiated, and approved at a time of economic and political turmoil and pressures for
deep-reaching institutional change. Economic stabilization was an important short-term objective, along with
establishing a framework for protecting priority social expenditures during times of fiscal retrenchment. Social
programs and expenditures had grown rapidly during the 1990s, but their effectiveness had been hindered by lack
of strategic planning, unclear and often conflicting objectives, overlapping and poorly coordinated implementation
responsibilities among agencies, and the absence of institutional capacity to monitor and control inputs or to
evaluate results. With decision-making highly centralized and information both inadequate and closely held, even
within the government, the opportunities for participation by civil society were extremely limited. The longer-term
focus of PSRL I was on creating the building blocks for the institutions and systems necessary to overcome these
shortcomings.

PSRL II was approved by the Board at the beginning of the Toledo Government's second year in office. Although



                                                        - 10 -

the economy was emerging from the long recession that had begun in 1998, the fiscal situation remained tight and
social protection remained an important short-term objective. Building on the social policy strategy and agenda
articulated under the first loan, PSRL II continued its support of the evolving mechanisms for the articulation and
expression of popular will, the development of systems for information collecting, processing and dissemination,
and improving the efficiency and targeting of priority programs in health, education, food distribution, and rural
infrastructure, while helping to shape a newly introduced workfare program.

PSRL III was guided by the same overarching goals as those of the earlier operations, but the institutional context
of those objectives was fundamentally affected by the accelerating decentralization of responsibilities for program
implementation to regional and local governments. In order to continue the gains being made in the targeting and
efficiency of social expenditure programs, the strengthening of monitoring and evaluation systems and of the legal
and incentive framework for the transfer of resources and responsibilities became increasingly critical. At the same
time, with the macroeconomic situation continuing to improve, PSRL III, at the Government's initiative, shifted
attention from short-term social protection, to longer-term issues inherent in Peru's public pension system. As
described in the previous sections, these efforts were consolidated and continued under PSRL IV.

Assessment

Any summary evaluation of the accomplishments of the PSRL program is necessarily subjective, even after four
years. In the first place, some of the program's objectives and sub-components--e.g., greater transparency of and
participation in public decision-making--respond to widely expressed popular aspirations, but their benefits are
difficult to measure, especially in so short a period of time. Secondly, because they were responding to shared
popular aspirations, some progress in the desired directions would undoubtedly have occurred without PSRL
support. Some of the specific innovations supported--e.g., the SIAF--were initiated during the Fujimori period,
and their development probably would have continued. The macroeconomic framework also benefited from the
reforms undertaken during the 1990s. Any rigorous assessment of PSRL's contribution to accelerating these
changes, reducing their costs, and/or moving them in a more productive direction would require comparison
against a speculative counterfactual scenario. Thirdly, the program has consisted of a large number of
sub-components, some of which can be credited with contributing significantly to the achievement of their stated
objectives, while others were dropped along the way as unfeasible under existing political circumstances. Observers
may differ on the priority accorded these varying outcomes and on the ex ante risks they faced. In any event, four
years is a very short period of time for the changes of attitudes, institutions and interrelationships, the assimilation
of systems and methodologies, and the overcoming of entrenched interests that are involved in such reforms.
Consequently, many elements of the program are still "works in progress" and continue to receive support from the
Bank and other donors.

With these caveats in mind, what can be said about the achievements of the PSRL program over the past four
years? The principal achievements of the program, as well as its shortfalls, are set out in Annex 1B along with an
informal rating of success in meeting the program's original expectations. The summary discussion here is
organized in accordance with the three sets of objectives that have guided the program from its beginning.

Improving the anti-poverty impact of public expenditures via the coordinated implementation of a clearly
articulated social strategy; increased efficiency, pro-poor targeting and impact evaluation of social expenditures;
and the budgetary protection of key social programs during periods of fiscal stringency.

Although significant improvements in social indicators had been achieved during the 1990s, the first issue set out
in the Policy Matrix for PSRL I noted that "Peru has lacked a clearly formulated social policy agenda, and the
coordination of social policy implementation has been inadequate." Over the past four years, with strong support
from the PSRL program, and informed by extensive public dialogue, a substantial and coherent social policy
agenda has taken form, has been progressively integrated into the multiannual macroeconomic program of the
government, and has been formalized in widely disseminated policy documents formally approved by the Council
of Ministers. Progress in its implementation is regularly reported on the web and in the public media. Originally
intended to be centered in CIAS, the responsibility for coordinating and monitoring implementation of the social
agenda has increasingly been assumed by MEF, which has served to strengthen the commitment of budgetary


                                                        - 11 -

resources for the social programs themselves as well as for the information and evaluation systems needed to
monitor and improve their results. PSRL has played an important role in helping to define and maintain the
coherence of the social agenda and sustain its implementation across two Administrations and continual Cabinet
changes. The extent to which the PSRL agenda has been embraced in Peru is reflected indirectly in the remarkable
degree to which the Bank's overall assistance strategy and program, as set out in the 2004 CAS Progress Report,
have come to be shaped by it.

Progress under PSRL in increasing the efficiency and improving the targeting of specific social programs presents
a more mixed picture. Unlike broad statements of principle and intention that enjoyed widespread popular and
political appeal, specific actions to modify, retarget, or eliminate existing programs could be expected to meet
strong resistance from both service providers and current beneficiaries. Advances in the administration and
targeting of food distribution (9) health, and rural infrastructure programs have been achieved through the
consolidation of overlapping programs, clarification of objectives, introduction of management agreements and
definition of performance indicators, better poverty data and target definition, improved procurement rules and
procedures, greater transparency, and closer monitoring. Support under PSRL II and III was effective in helping to
shape the A Trabajar workfare program into an efficient instrument for targeting temporary jobs to lower-income,
unskilled workers during the economic recession. Initial progress in consolidating and more effectively targeting
the food programs slowed after PSRL II, however, in the face of bureaucratic resistance, some difficulties in
aligning poverty and nutritional targets with the legal mandates of specific programs, and shifting attention to
establishing an appropriate legal, institutional and procedural framework to guide the decentralization of these
programs to the regional and local governments. Nevertheless, the flexibility of the programmatic loan instrument
allowed quick adaptation to the decentralizing context, and the program has provided effective support to putting
in place a framework that extends the efficiency, pro-poor targeting, and transparency criteria to the use of the
transferred resources.

Initial expectations and commitments under the PSRL program proved too optimistic with regard to the
government's ability to overcome deeply entrenched interests in several areas, including the coordination of large
health investments and reform of ESSALUD; passage of a new teacher career law that would, inter alia, introduce
merit criteria into promotion, pay, and tenure decisions; and reform or elimination of the very large Vaso de Leche
and Comedores Populares food distribution programs. These commitments were not met and were eventually
dropped from the program (10). A significant advance was accomplished under PSRL IV with the completion of a
comprehensive data base linking teachers to teaching positions and the nationwide establishment of a Uniform
Payroll System for teachers that has substantially eliminated salary payments to "phantom teachers," is bringing
individual salaries in line with the positions actually held, and is facilitating the transfer of teaching positions from
surplus to deficit areas. The introduction of merit-based pay also appears to be gaining support among younger
teachers and the public, and a consultative process is under way centered on a new draft teachers' career law.

A major breakthrough, not anticipated at the start of the PSRL program, was achieved in pension reform with the
support of PSRL III and IV. A commitment to prepare a strategy and action plan for pension reform and to center
in MEF the responsibility for overseeing its implementation helped to ensure the resources and attention needed for
a major information-gathering and analysis effort that in turn became the foundation for building a popular and
political consensus for reform. The principal accomplishment that had long evaded previous governments, was
passage of a constitutional amendment and law to close the costly, corrupted, and highly inequitable Cédula Viva
public employee pension system to new affiliates, rationalize and cap its benefits and de-link them from the salary
levels of active public sector workers, raise the lowest-bracket pensions, increase worker contributions, and nullify
pensions being received illegally. Progress was also made in rationalizing benefits and improving the collection of
contributions under the SNP and raise its minimum pension, and to lower the costs of affiliation in the SPP. Any
future change in the public pension system has also been made subject to a criterion of fiscal sustainability. These
changes should make more feasible the future broadening of the still very narrow coverage of pensions in Peru,
which hardly touch the poor. A clear strategy in this regard has still to emerge, however. The de-indexing of
benefits under the CV also improves the possibility of broader reform and long-needed improvement of public
sector salaries.

Support for efforts to develop mechanisms to protect the poor and programs benefiting the poor during economic


                                                         - 12 -

downturns had begun under a previous adjustment loan and continued to be a prominent component of the PSRL
agenda. The support noted above to A Trabajar fit this objective, but PSRL's principal thrust in this direction was
the protection of budgetary allocations for specified social expenditure categories and designated programs. There
is general agreement that the budgetary commitments made did succeed in preventing or limiting program cuts
during a time of general fiscal retrenchment (11). Significant variations among the programs in meeting spending
targets manifested significant weaknesses in implementation capacity, particularly in the education programs, and
the quality and efficiency of some of the programs was open to question. Arguably, the emphasis on budgetary
protection may therefore have been premature, especially given the additional rigidity it introduced to an already
highly inflexible budget.

Increasing the access of poor families to quality health and educational services, particularly in the rural areas,
with particular focus on the expansion of insurance coverage and improvement of medical services for maternal
and infant health care among the lowest two income quintiles, and improved human resource management and
teaching incentives for rural teachers.

The targeted expansion of health care services to lower-income families is perhaps the most precisely focused and
easily quantifiable success story of the PSRL program. Bank support to the decentralization of health service
delivery and the consolidation and targeted expansion of existing maternal and infant care insurance coverage and
the development and establishment of the community-managed health clinics (CLAS) actually began under the
Health Reform Project, approved by the Board in December 1999, but only began to take off after its inclusion in
the PSRL matrix gave it priority status in the government's social agenda and committed the MEF to supporting
and overseeing its implementation (12).       Coverage of the program, which was operating in 13 of Peru's 27
Regional Health Departments at the time of PSRL I, now covers the entire country. Ambitious targets for the
expansion of services in rural and low-income districts to pregnant women, including professionally assisted
deliveries, and infant care, were exceeded, and recent surveys, albeit covering a short time period and based on
small samples, show promising results in falling infant mortality and delivery-related maternal deaths.

Support and monitoring under successive PSRL operations were key to protecting the pro-poor, basic health care
focus of the SIS and to implementing and sustaining the innovative CLAS model, effectively countervailing
continuing pressures from doctors and middle-class clients for the funding of more sophisticated services in the
major urban hospitals. While PSRL was successful in this regard, it is evident that the issue of priorities in the
competition for health subsidies has not been permanently resolved. Moreover, the resolution of, or failure to
resolve, related issues (not included in PSRL) concerning the pay and incentives of health professionals, which are
problems in many ways similar to those affecting teachers, will importantly influence the sustainability and further
progress of the targeting gains made under the PSRL program.

Progress in education reform has been less than expected relative to the overly optimistic expectations prevailing at
the start of the PSRL program. The program correctly recognized that solution of the system's serious qualitative
deficiencies required deep reforms in the way the system was managed and in the incentives motivating its key
actors, particularly the teachers. However, reform had long been opposed and effectively stymied by the powerful
teachers union, the issues were not generally well understood by the public, the Education Ministry's
implementation capacity was exceedingly weak, and, after years of mismanagement and perhaps intentional
destruction of records, the basic data needed to reform human resource management and incentives in the sector
were either unreliable or altogether absent. Progress has been made, as described above, in rebuilding the data base
and should receive a boost by the establishment of the UPS.

In its efforts to support improved access for poor children to better quality education, the PSRL program has
focused narrowly on rural schools at the primary level. Some progress was made in training teachers to work in the
local indigenous languages, but there was less advancement in strengthening their abilities to work in the typical
multi-grade classrooms. After showing slow progress under the first two PSRL loans, the pilot project to test and
develop incentives and encourage parental participation in school monitoring, the program is now showing results.
An independent external evaluation of the 2004 experiment has shown both the monetary incentives and the
parental participation to be individually and jointly effective in motivating better teacher attendance in the more
remote schools. The pilot has been extended in 2005 to include an evaluation of the impact on student performance


                                                       - 13 -

and may be combined in some areas with a new program offering cash allowances to families contingent, inter
alia, on student attendance (13).

Increasing the transparency of social programs and enhancing the participation of the poor in their design,
monitoring and evaluation through the expansion and improvement of information collection and dissemination,
the promotion of mechanisms of consultation, social dialogue, program oversight and feedback.

Government policy and rapid technological change have resulted in an explosion of the supply of information
available to both public officials and the general public on public sector operations. The PSRL program has made
an important contribution to the improvement of transparency and the expansion of civil society participation in
government decision-making. Enactment of the Transparency and Access to Information Law and its regulations
has established extensive citizen rights to information and access to mechanisms for holding public officials
accountable. The legal framework for sub-national governments, and for the decentralization of programs to them
from the national level, extend these transparency and accountability requirements to the local and regional levels.
Even before the passage of the laws, the information provided to the public was rapidly expanding with the PSRL
program giving particular support to the expansion and upgrading of the SIAF, increasing the user friendliness of
the MEF website, and establishing a web-based procurement system.

The SIAF has been steadily expanded and upgraded, providing real time reports on all national government
budgeted and actual expenditures by program, including transfers to the sub-national governments, and the system
has been extended to more than 800 local governments to provide similar information on their operations.
Websites established by MEF, sector ministries, sub-national governments, and project implementing agencies
regularly report their strategic plans, expenditures, progress toward specified objectives, and a broad range of
economic and social data relevant to their respective responsibilities. The MEF website includes, inter alia, regular
reports on the economy, social developments and indicators, drafts of laws in preparation, special reports on
economic and social issues, communications and recommendations transmitted to Congress, updates on the
execution of the national budget, and progress toward meeting the economic and social objectives set out in the
MMF. Coverage of the e-procurement system (SEACE) has steadily expanded and, in addition to providing a
medium for bids and awards, now provides information on all government procurement contracts, including
disputes and their resolution. Civil society organizations, including the Mesas de Concertación (see next
paragraph) and the media are increasingly drawing on this information for their own analysis and discussion, but
its use remains highly concentrated in Lima and other major population centers.

The social policy agenda adopted by the PSRL was itself prepared on the basis of extensive social dialogue. A
nationwide network of more than 450 Roundtables (Mesas de Concertación) was formed under the Transition
Government to discuss national issues and priorities. The process of dialogue has continued under the Toledo
Government and contributed to a broad consensus on many aspects of social policy despite Peru's often strident
political debate. An active process of participatory budgeting, perhaps unique in the world, has been mandated by
law at the local level and is actively functioning as a mechanism for civil society input into policies, priority
setting, and resource allocation, as well as a means by which the participants become better informed and gain a
greater understanding of the government's operations and the trade-offs involved. There is a widespread
impression that local officials are increasingly responsive to those inputs, and the government itself is beginning to
use dialogue more proactively to build political consensus behind some of the more difficult reforms--e.g., the
closing of the CV.

The PSRL program has played an important role in selling within the government the need to introduce systematic
monitoring and evaluation of its expenditure programs, particularly in the social sectors. The monitoring of agreed
indicators with respect to the PSPs was introduced early in the program and their use as an incentive device has
been strengthened with the increasing application of management agreements between MEF, the sector ministries,
program implementing units and sub-national governments. Appreciation of the importance of M&E was slow to
take hold, however, until being given impulse by the need to put controls in place over the allocation of resources
transferred with decentralization. The establishment of an effective and rigorous system of M&E has also proven
technically more difficult than anticipated, and the technical assistance intended for this effort was delayed.
Although the SIAF system has become a highly effective mechanism for monitoring the use of financial resources



                                                        - 14 -

in accordance with budgetary allocations, including the use of resources transferred for social programs to the
sub-national governments, problems have become apparent in linking expenditures to social outcomes in the
system.

A legal framework has been put in place for M&E throughout the government sector and includes the
establishment of participatory oversight committees (Consejos de Vigilancia) at the local level and a national
coordinating committee at the level of the Council of Ministers. A large number of local Consejos have been
created, although there is reportedly wide variation in their effectiveness. The national Consejo, although formally
constituted, has apparently never met. Two participatory mechanisms supported by PSRL at the sector level--the
CLAS and parental involvement in the monitoring of rural teachers--have proven effective, as described above.
Many government agencies have established "hotlines" and other systems for receiving and responding to citizen
complaints, but little information is available on how well they are functioning.

Lessons

Several lessons can be taken from the PSRL experience. Some of those set out below are drawn from the earlier
ICRs and are reconfirmed by this retrospective assessment of the four loans:

1.        In addition to the "mechanical" aspects of institution-building--information gathering and analysis, new
hardware and software systems, modernization of skills, reorganization of work flow--reforms involving the
realignment of public expenditures and program, as well as increasing the transparency of and broadening
participation in government decision-making and implementation, often require profound changes in social
attitudes and threaten, or are perceived to threaten, powerful entrenched interests. Consequently:

a.        Preparation costs are likely to be high;

b.        The process and the commitment required of those who would support it is likely to be long--it is not
realistic to expect a program of such reforms to be completed in a period of less than five years; and

c.        Confidence in the sustainability of the reforms initiated may take considerably longer and will almost
certainly need continued financial and technical support.

2.        The PSRL has proven itself an effective instrument for maintaining a constructive dialogue and for
supporting a coherent and focused policy agenda that has bridged two Governments and several changes of
Cabinet. It has also allowed the flexibility needed to respond to new initiatives (e.g., the workfare program and
pension reform), to adapt to a changing political context (viz., decentralization), to develop and refine targets and
performance indicators, to initiate and incorporate the results of pilot reform experiments, to adjust Bank support
to the evolving performance of economic and social policies (thus allowing to add a fourth operation to the
originally planned three), and to beat a tactical retreat and seek other approaches and means of support when
certain components proved infeasible.

3.        The assumption by MEF of a central role in the negotiation of the social agenda and responsibility for its
implementation effectively engaged the influence and commitment of the state budget to push the reforms forward,
to monitor their results, and to provide the necessary resources. It is essential to avoid, however, that centering
program design, coordination and loan negotiations in the Finance Ministry weakens contact with operating
realities (capacities, incentives, etc.) in the line ministries responsible for implementation as well as with the
priorities and level of commitment of the respective ministers.

4.        Social reforms are inevitably experimental and strong monitoring and evaluation systems are essential to
drawing the lessons of pilot efforts, refining instruments, and guiding the adjustment of policies and programs over
time. Implementing agencies need to be convinced early in the program of the importance of M&E and of
developing the information, indicators, incentives, and instruments necessary to make it work. An action plan
toward that end, including timely delivery of required technical assistance, should be integrated into the design of
the reform program itself.


                                                        - 15 -

5.       The open and participatory fashion in which the PSRL agenda was formulated helped to build consensus
both inside and outside the government, thereby increasing the likelihood of the sustainability of its achievements.
It also provided a vehicle through which government officials and others could inform the public debate
surrounding controversial issues and gradually overcome resistance to reform. A consensus-building strategy
should be an integral element of a reform program.

6.       Finally, PSRL's support of greater transparency and participation in the setting of social priorities and in
the monitoring of government response to them has undoubtedly made an important contribution, even though the
benefits may not be immediately or rigorously measurable. Complementary efforts are needed to strengthen the
representative institutions through which the growing expressions of popular will and wisdom are mediated and
translated into effective action.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The main aspects that stand out in the assessment of the PSRL IV are the program's performance in the country
and the use of the programmatic loan to comply with the set agreements. The performance of the four PSRL (I, II,
III, IV) has been very satisfactory, as there was a steady advance ­ issues were not added or removed arbitrarily -,
the agreements were consistent unto themselves and in the most part the issues formed part of the sector's pending
agenda. Likewise, the evidence that the loans were disbursed in the set installments can indicate the effort shown
by the Peruvian Government to comply with the agreements.

On the other hand, the use of the programmatic loan for the fulfillment of the agreements has been strengthened by
the presence of the Ministry of Economy and Finances as interlocutor for the Bank, as this Ministry has the
greatest incentives to ensure that the program is successful. The institutional continuity of the MEF has also
guaranteed the consistency of the loans and agreements throughout the 2001-2005 periods. This process is also
strengthened by the active participation of the sectors that are responsible for the negotiation processes, which are
the ones that propose and validate the agreements within their own institutions, so that each agreement is made
within the institutions as their own. However, in some occasions, the constant change of employees in these sectors
has weakened this process.

9.1 The Program:
The PSRL IV has consolidated the advances the Peruvian Government in the reduction of poverty, the
rationalization of public expenditures and the creation of spaces for transparency and citizen participation. The
results shown in this document are important, and establish a series of actions to improve that performance of the
State in social issues for the following years, such as the integral implementation of the system to oversee and
evaluate the social public expenditures, the consolidation of the system for conditioned transfers, and a substantial
improvement in the population's education and health with special emphasis on the first years of life to prevent
any disabilities at that age.

9.2 Bank Performance:
The Bank's activity during the PSRL IV was satisfactory. The Bank offered permanent technical assistance and
support for the Government in order to identify critical issues and search for strategies that promote their solution.

The manner in which the Bank approached the issues allowed for a fluid relationship with the Government's team,
and that there would be opportune alerts regarding obstacles or restrictions that might affect the agreements in
order to come up with adequate solutions. In general, these agreements were duly fulfilled, without the need to
revise the initial proposals. However, in the exceptional cases were a revision was necessary due to the fact that the
goals that were set in the first place were not feasible, the Bank demonstrated a predisposition to analyze the
situation and find opportune and adequate solutions.

9.3 Beneficiaries performance:
The performance achieved was satisfactory, inasmuch as a consistent program could be counted on over time,



                                                        - 16 -

integrated by relevant issues in the social agenda and the fulfillment of the political agreements which were
opportunely established.

Finally, the Government agrees with the Bank's opinion on the need to provide a greater importance to the design
and application of supervision and evaluation systems, which will take on more importance in the context of
decentralization, as it is a priority to consider this issue in the design of future adjustment programs.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                           - 17 -

End Notes:

1. Individual ICRs for PSRLs I-III were issued, respectively, on March 26, 2002 (Report No. 23755), June 23,
    2003 (Report No. 25864), and December 20, 2004 (Report No. 29650-PE).
2. In March 2005, MEF initiated the publication of a series of Boletines, evaluating the progress being made in
    the targeting and efficiency of social expenditures and the achievement of social objectives.
3. The Government is committed to continued budgetary protection of the PSPs under a programmatic loan from
    the IDB.
4. At the time of the ICR mission, the signature of one agreement was still pending.
5. The SIS and the CLAS are directly supported under the Health Reform Loan.
6. Includes pre-school, primary and secondary education.
7. In some cases, the substantial salary reductions called for (e.g., politically connected school-cleaning personnel
    or junior teachers that were being paid at the level of school administrators) will be phased in over time to
    cushion adjustment.
8. Although contract teachers can be reassigned, tenured teachers cannot be moved without their consent. It is
    now possible, however, to budget funds to individual schools in accordance with the number and level of
    approved positions.
9. According to SIAF data, however, resources allocated to cover PRONAA's administrative expenses showed an
    unexplained increase of more than 100 percent in the 2005 budget.
10. Some limited progress has been made in these areas, and efforts are continuing both with and without Bank
    support. Limited economies in the health programs are being realized in a few departments through cross
    purchases of health services between MINSA and ESSALUD. Vaso de Leche appears to be better targeted
    toward districts in the lower two income quintiles, but little information is available about the distribution of
    benefits among families within the districts.
11. Some participants also suggest that the budgetary protection helped to assure counterpart for related Bank
    investment loans and to keep pro-reform teams together within the sector ministries.
12. The Health Reform Project became effective after considerable delay in July 2001.
13. Direct support to the pilot programs and to their eventual incorporation into mainstream rural education is
    being provided under the Bank's Rural Education Project.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                        - 18 -

     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



   ISSUES/PROBLEMS                           ACTIONS TAKEN AND STATUS AS OF SEPTEMBER 2005
I. IMPROVING THE ANTI-POVERTY FOCUS OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES
A. A Pro-Poor Reorientation of Government Spending

Public expenditure needs to   The Multiannual Macroeconomic Framework 2005-2007, annually updated by MEF as a
be appropriately allocated to guide to budgeting and policy making throughout the government, included for the first
Peru's social priorities      time a chapter explicitly setting out the Government's social spending priorities. In
                              addition, the General Law for the National Budget System, whose submission to Congress
                              was set out as a prior action for PSRL IV, was passed by Congress in December 2004 (1).
                              Among other things, the law authorizes and establishes norms for negotiation and signing
                              of management performance contracts between MEF and other agencies at all levels of
                              government. These agreements provide for "productivity bonuses" tied to agency
                              performance, and are monitored by both the Congress and the CGR.


B. Protected Social Programs (PSPs)

Fiscal retrenchment and       Actual real expenditures for the six PSPs in 2003 fell slightly short of the agreed level in
pro-cyclical spending         real terms, but additional commitments undertaken by the Government, including an
pattern put at risk the       article added to the 2004 Budget Law explicitly prohibiting any diversion of resources
minimum financing             from the PSPs to fund payroll, benefits or any programs other than the PSPs, was taken as
requirements of the PSPs in   sufficient to meeting PSRL loan objectives. Actual expenditures for the PSPs during the
support of the GOP's Social   first eight months of 2004 exceeded the 85 percent of budgeted amounts agreed as a
Protection Strategy.          trigger condition for PSRL IV. By end-year 2004, actual total expenditures on the six
                              programs reached 91 percent of the budgeted amounts, as shown in the following table (in
                              millions of soles):

                                  Program            Budget     85% of    Actual     % of         % of
                                                                Budget              Budget      Minimum
                                                                                                 Budget
                                  Pre-Primary
                                  Education             78        66        77         99          117
                                  Primary Education    202       172       188        93           109
                                  Secondary
                                  Education            187       159       164        88           103
                                  Collective Health     99        84        95        96           113
                                  Individual Health    886       753       871        98           116
                                  Social and
                                  Community
                                  Assistance          1,145      973       980        98           101
                                   TOTALS             2,597     2,207     2,376       91           108



                               More realistic budgeting, closer monitoring, and the strictures against resource diversions
                               helped to avoid the significant shortfalls suffered by specific programs under earlier
                               PSRLs.




                                                            - 19 -

C. Reforming Food Programs

Food programs are to be       The consolidation of food distribution programs has continued within PRONAA, an
decentralized, but they lack  agency of the Ministry of Women and Development (MIMDES), albeit slowed by
clear objectives; monitoring  bureaucratic resistance, differences of client focus, and a shift of attention to the creation
and evaluation are weak;      of norms and mechanisms for regulating and monitoring the programs as responsibility
and targeting and             for their management is decentralized to the regional and local governments.
transparency need further
strengthening.                A substantial body of laws and regulations (2) has been put in place over the last two years
                              to govern the targeting of resource transfers from the central to local governments,
                              decentralized management, and monitoring and evaluation of the food distribution (as
                              well as rural infrastructure) programs. This normative framework, inter alia, establishes
                              the criteria for directing assistance to the areas and individuals in greatest need and for
                              evaluating and certifying the administrative capacities of the local governments to
                              administer the programs, and establishes the contractual and organizational arrangements
                              for managing the transfers and for monitoring and evaluating the results. By September
                              2005, 125 of the 194 provincial municipalities had signed participation or management
                              agreements with MIMDES for the administration of the food programs (3). (In addition,
                              882 of the 1,828 district municipalities had signed agreements for the management of
                              social infrastructure programs.)

                              Efforts have continued to improve the nutritional value of the food programs and to
                              increase their impact in reducing malnutrition, particularly among children under 5 years
                              of age. Nevertheless, a recent MEF analysis concludes that only 15 percent of PRONAA's
                              budget in 2004 was oriented toward nutritional objectives.


D. Reforming Pensions

High-cost,                    Following the assignment in July 2003 of responsibility to the Department of Economic
publicly-subsidized pension   and Social Affairs of MEF, a pension reform strategy and action plan was prepared and
programs benefit a            published (4), thus complying with a benchmark trigger for PSRL IV. Also, for the first
privileged minority of the    time, a quarterly statistical report is being published providing data on the coverage of the
population, while the         public and private systems, and their costs and financing.
majority population remains
without basic social          Considerable progress has been made in cleaning up the SNP rolls and improving
insurance coverage and        collections.
distortions limit the
expansion of coverage         The private pension fund administrators (AFPs) have realized significant cost reductions
under the private pension     in the last three years. New regulations to increase the system's transparency and to
system.                       simplify the process for affiliates to switch between AFPs, along with the entry of a
                              competitive new pension fund into the market, has resulted in a substantial reduction in
                              premiums to the lowest level in Latin America.

The extremely generous        In November 2004, the Congress approved a constitutional amendment (5) to close the CV
conditions of the Cédula      to any new entrants, centralize control over its administration, eliminate the indexing of
Viva (CV) program create      CV pensions to the wages of active workers, to empower the National Government to
serious inequities and fiscal initiate legal actions to nullify any pensions obtained illegally, and to make any future
pressures.                    modifications of the current pension system or introduction of new pension systems
                              subject to a criterion of fiscal sustainability. This was followed in December 2004 by a
                              new law (6) setting tighter rules for determining, adjusting and putting a ceiling on
                              pensions, and directing that the savings realized from the setting of the pension ceiling be
                              used to raise the lowest pension brackets by specified amounts.



                                                             - 20 -

II. IMPROVING ACCESS TO QUALITY HEALTH AND EDUCATION SERVICES
 A. Improving Access of the Poor to Health Services


Despite expanded provision      During 2004, the SIS continued to expand, covering at year end 9.1 million affiliates,

of health services, a           including almost 3.1 million infants below age 5 and 656 thousand pregnant women and

significant proportion of the   nursing mothers (7). Some 84 percent of affiliates and 78 percent of patients attended

poor population remains         lived in rural or marginal urban zones, and more than 60 percent of affiliates and 54

without access to basic         percent of patients attended were in the first two per capita income quintiles. The

health services.                percentage of SIS expenditures carried out through level I and II health care facilities rose
                                from 64 percent in 2003 to 68 percent in 2004 and to 70 percent through the first seven
                                months of 2005, falling short of the 75 percent target agreed under PSRL IV. The
                                proportion of pregnant women receiving professional medical attention rose from 84
                                percent to 91 percent from 2000 to 2004, and the percentage of births that were medically
                                assisted rose from 59 percent to 71 percent over the same period.

                                After several years of rapid expansion, the growth of locally co-managed primary health
                                centers (CLAS) has leveled off and account for roughly 35 percent of primary health
                                establishments, serving more than 8 million clients, mostly in poor, rural areas. The
                                future of this widely heralded innovation in primary health care delivery is now in doubt
                                because of continuing resistance among physicians and the formalization of the positions
                                of doctors working in them, with the result of reducing their operational flexibility.

                                Annual performance agreements have been signed between SIS and MEF have been
                                instituted, and management agreements have been signed between the MINSA and 26 of
                                27 Regional Health Departments (DISAs), with one agreement still pending. A "new
                                generation" of agreements is now being formulated that will be more rigorous in the
                                definition of performance indicators.


B. Improving Access to Quality Education

 Inefficient human resources    The Unified Payroll System is now functioning in all of Peru's 24 Departments, and
 system characterized by a      covering some 98 percent of teacher positions (8). A comprehensive inventory of public
 lack of controls in amounts    sector teaching positions was completed, restoring transparency and control to the system
 paid through the payroll       after many years of haphazard expansion and abuse. File-by-file cross-checking of
 system and of an effective     positions against payrolls and the shift to automatic electronic salary payments through
 linkage between an             the SIAF system have made possible the elimination of payments to "phantom" teachers
 individual's position level    as well as widespread overpayments for the positions occupied. Further rationalization has
 and his/her salary.            been introduced through the reassignment of contract teachers from over-staffed to
                                under-staffed schools.

 Lack of incentives             The pilot incentive program for rural teachers, originally initiated in 2002 under PSRL II,
 motivating teachers to         was revised and relaunched in 2003 under PSRL III, giving greater attention, inter alia, to
 improve performance or to      the establishment and strengthening of local school councils. An evaluation by GRADE, a
 take on hardship positions     private consulting firm, has found that both the monetary incentives and monitoring by
 (particularly in rural areas). the parents have had significant positive impacts on teacher attendance. The pilot has
                                been continued in 2005 to include evaluation of impact on student performance.

                                Reform of the law governing the teaching career and of the teacher pay structure to
                                include merit and performance incentives based on regular evaluation continue to confront
                                resistance from the teachers' union, but there is growing evidence of support from
                                younger teachers and from the public. The implementation of a new pay scale is also
                                impeded, however, by the almost complete absence of reliable records, of



                                                             - 21 -

                               credentials--education levels, experience, performance evaluations, etc.--of the current
                               stock of teachers.


III. ENHANCED GOVERNANCE: IMPROVING TRANSPARENCY AND PARTICIPATION OF THE POOR
A. Enhanced Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Programs with Social Participation

 Limited transparency and      The design and implementation of a transparent, participative, and results-oriented
 public accountability;        monitoring and evaluation system for the PSPs, in the context of the decentralization
 inconsistent application of   process, was set out as a trigger condition for PSRL IV. Several laws and decrees enacted
 program norms;                since 2002 establish the framework for achieving this objective (9); In order to qualify for
 over-charging for public      the transfer of programs and resources under the decentralization process, regional and
 services and lack of public   local governments must have introduced participatory budgeting and have established
 awareness of citizens' rights systems of information and transparency covering the use and the resources transferred
 and the responsibilities of   and the results of the programs. A high-level, multisectoral oversight committee for the
 public servants.              M&E system, with civil society participation, was established by the law, but apparently
                               has never met.

                               The SIAF financial control system has now incorporated some 800 municipalities, or
                               about 40 percent of the total. Most ministries and many sub-national governments are
                               providing financial and other information on public websites. This information, along
                               with SIAF data on budget, expenditures, and transfers for all government programs, are
                               being increasingly used by civil society organizations, including professional
                               organizations, universities, and the media. Users tend to be located principally in Lima
                               and other major population centers, however, with access more limited in the rural areas.
                               In practice, participation in planning and budgeting at the local levels of government has
                               greatly intensified but remains limited with respect to monitoring and evaluation.

B. More Transparent and Efficient Procurement and Greater Government Ability to Fight Corruption

 Improving transparency and    A regulatory framework for procurement of foodstuffs for the food distribution programs
 efficiency in procurement     has been put in place under the supervision and control of CONSUCODE (10). The new
 procedures, and               regulations, which apply to all levels of government involved, mandate the formation and
 strengthening the             define the functions of local procurement commissions, require that food rations conform
 government's capacity for     with nutritional norms set by the Ministry of Health, define a transparent bidding and
 fighting corruption.          contract award process, and establish sanctions for infractions.

                               Multiple objectives, however, continue to be reflected in the requirement that procurement
                               commissions buy preferentially from small, local producers using domestically produced
                               inputs, that producers be represented on the procurement commissions, and that prices not
                               be less than 80 percent of local production costs.




                                                             - 22 -

         Annex 1B. Achievements of the PSRL Program

      OBJECTIVES               PRINCIPAL ACHIEVEMENTS                  L/A               COMMENTS
                                                                       (11)
Improve the Anti-Poverty Impact of Social Expenditures:

Clear articulation,        A Letter of Social Policy presented to the      Social strategy formulation has been
coordination and           Bank in March 2001 has been followed by         supported by designated benchmarks in
implementation of social   a series of social policy documents             all four PSRLs, and this support has
policy agenda              prepared after discussions involving broad      contributed importantly to maintaining
                           participation both within the government        the coherence and focus of the social
                           and with civil society, and providing           agenda across two Administrations and
                           growing     analytical   rigor,  operational S  several    changes    of    Cabinet.    The
                           specificity and monitorable objectives.         assumption by MEF of responsibility for
                           Responsibility    for    coordination   and     coordination     and    monitoring      has
                           monitoring social policy was originally         strengthened the budgetary commitment
                           intended to be centered in the CIAS, but        to social programs and to the development
                           has progressively been assumed by MEF.          of information and monitoring systems,
                           The process has been institutionalized          both of which should strengthen the
                           with the annual updating of the MMF,            incentives of implementing agencies to
                           approved by the Council of Ministers.           pursue cost-effectiveness and meet stated
                                                                           objectives.

Increase the efficiency of The administrative structure of MINSA           Assistance to administrative reforms of
social expenditures,       has been streamlined, bringing maternal         MINSA and to the DISAs, and to the
including consolidation    and child health programs under a unified       design    and     monitoring     of   their
and coordination of        plan and budget and combining formerly          management agreements, in preparation
health, nutrition, and     separate mother and infant and student          for the decentralization of health services,
rural infrastructure       health insurance under a single integrated      continues under the Health Reform
programs, improved         program. Internal information systems           Project.     The       PSRL        program
human resource             have been integrated and upgraded, and          underestimated    the   strength   of   the
management and payroll     closely monitored management                    bureaucratic and political resistance to
control in education, and  performance agreements have been                reform of ESSALUD and to constraints
the introduction of more   instituted between MEF and MINSA and         P  on its investment program. Further efforts
transparent bidding        between MINSA and all of the DISAs.             toward these ends were stymied in 2003
processes for public       However, efforts to reorganize ESSALUD          by the passage by Congress of a law
procurement for the food   and to institute joint programming of the       giving ESSALUD autonomy from central
distribution programs.     health investments of MINSA, ESSALUD            control.
                           and the armed forces and police failed
                           and were dropped from the program.
                           Efforts to reduce the costs of service
                           delivery via agreements for the purchase
                           of medical services between MINSA and
                           ESSALUD were also dropped but
                           continue to make slow progress outside
                           the PSRL program.

                           Several rural infrastructure programs with
                           overlapping elements were consolidated
                           under the administration of FONCODES,        S
                           adopting the latter's methodologies and
                           targeting objectives.




                                                               - 23 -

Early progress was made in consolidating        Although efficiency gains have been made
under MIMDES (12) formerly scattered            with the consolidation of food programs
and overlapping food distribution               under MIMDES, a full unification of their
programs and clarifying and better              management and objectives has been
targeting their nutritional objectives.         complicated by bureaucratic resistance
Political and bureaucratic interests have     P and differences in their mandated target
slowed this progress, however, and the          groups. Some improvement appears to
two largest programs, Vaso de Leche and         have been achieved in the pro-poor
Comedores Populares, remain largely             targeting of Vaso de Leche, but efforts to
independent, costly, and of doubtful            confront directly its objectives and modus
nutritional value. An agreed pilot              operandi, as well as those of Comedores
program to test the substitution of cash        Populares, failed in the face of strong
grants for food was never carried out.          political support and entrenched interests.
                                                Consideration is now being given to ways
                                                of working more closely with the
                                                supporters and implementers of these
                                                programs to improve their nutritional
                                                focus and pro-poor targeting. Although
                                                the pilot program for cash transfers in lieu
                                                of food was formally approved, the MEF
                                                team remained skeptical of such programs
                                                and was never really committed to its
                                                implementation.

Efforts to eliminate waste and corruption       The successful establishment of the UPS
and to rationalize and control the              required a sustained and tedious effort to
education    payroll   were   impeded     by    consolidate and cross-check data from a
resistance from the teachers union as well      number of often inconsistent sources.
as by the inadequacy and disorganization        MED received strong support from MEF
of the existing data base. A significant        in this effort, which was also bolstered by
breakthrough was achieved late in the           the information processing and financial
program with the successful establishment       management capability of the SIAF
of a Unified Payroll System covering          S system.    (Continued    support    to   the
virtually all teachers. By linking the          upgrading of the teacher management
identification of specific teachers to          information system is being provided
specific positions and using the SIAF           under the Rural Education Project.).
system to make salary payments by
electronic transfer to individual bank
accounts, the advance has eliminated
payments to "phantom" teachers, enabled
the setting of salary levels in accordance
with the positions held, and facilitated the
transfer of teaching positions from surplus
to deficit areas.

A new legal framework was established
for transparent and competitive public          Improvement of the procurement system
procurement, and steady progress has            received strong impetus from a 2001
been made in the introduction, extension,       CPAR, jointly carried out by the Bank
and     refinement     of    a   web-based      and IDB. Substantial assistance in this
procurement      system,   with    particular   area was also provided by IDB and CAF.



                                    - 24 -

                             attention   under   PSRL     to   the   food   A follow-up CPAR was carried out jointly
                             distribution programs. CONSUCODE's             with IDB in FY95.
                             supervisory role has been strengthened in
                             close coordination with the CGR, the state   S
                             auditing agency, which has also been
                             given greater legal autonomy under the
                             program, extending its authority over the
                             Defense Ministry and the other security
                             agencies. The electronic procurement
                             system has greatly reduced the time and
                             costs involved in completing transactions
                             as well as the opportunities for abuse.
                             Cost savings in food procurement are
                             reduced,     however,     by     conflicting
                             objectives to give preferential support to
                             small local producers.

Improve the targeting of     A new poverty map was prepared and has         Improved     targeting  has    become     an
poverty alleviation          been continually improved and refined          important,    institutionalized   tool    of
programs to ensure that      and updated by household and other             anti-poverty   policy.   Although    agreed
the benefits are effectively surveys conducted by INEI. Targets             improvements in targeting to low-income
reaching the poor            agreed for the proportion of resources         districts were achieved under PSRL,
                             under the various programs (including        P much remains to be done. There is little
                             nutrition,    the     SIS,     and     rural   control over how most of the food
                             infrastructure) to be allocated to districts   distributed is allocated among families
                             with average incomes in the lowest two         within the targeted districts (14), and the
                             quintiles of the income distribution have      largest food program, Vaso de Leche, has
                             been substantially met (13).       Pro-poor    been shown to have little impact on
                             criteria are now also by law attached to       nutrition,  while    the  second    largest,
                             the     transfer   of     resources      and   Comedores Populares, is not covered by
                             decentralization of responsibilities for       either the poverty or nutritional deficiency
                             social programs to the sub-national            criteria (15). A recent MEF study
                             governments, and incorporated in the           indicates that the higher-income regions
                             management      performance     agreements     of the country continue to receive larger
                             between MEF, the sector ministries, and        per    capita  public   health    subsidies,
                             the sub-national governments. The PSRL         including under the SIS, than do the
                             program     quickly     adapted    to    the   poorer regions.
                             institutional and procedural requirements
                             for maintaining the targeting of social
                             expenditures     in   the    decentralizing
                             context.

Effectively target the       Targeting     objectives   for    allocating   The workfare program was introduced at
emergency workfare           workfare projects to districts in the lowest   the beginning of the Toledo Government,
program to provide           income quintiles were met, and agreed        S and was incorporated into PSRL II to
temporary employment         wage      rates    effectively     promoted    ensure its efficient targeting. With the
for the poor.                self-targeting of poor families and assured    economy improving, the program was
                             that the program did not substitute for        phased out during PSRL III.
                             otherwise available employment.

Reduce cost and abuse        For the first time, the Government             Efforts by previous Governments to
and increase the equity of   prepared a strategy and action plan for        rationalize the public pension system,
benefits and coverage of     long-term reform of the pension system         which received substantial Bank support,



                                                                 - 25 -

the national pensions        with    responsibility  for   its oversight     failed in the face of Congressional and
systems.                     centered in MEF, and regular reports are      E judicial opposition to close or stop abuse
                             being produced on the system's coverage,        of the CV. The success of this latest effort
                             finances and the progress toward strategic      was due in large part to a concerted and
                             objectives. A constitutional amendment          effective campaign by the authorities to
                             was passed to close the much abused CV          build a political and popular consensus
                             and to eliminate the indexing of benefits       based on careful and detailed analysis of
                             to   the   salaries   of   active  workers,     the gross inequities, abuses, and costs of
                             contribution rates were increased, an           the existing system. While progress has
                             effective internal tax on the highest           been made to reduce costs and abuses,
                             pensions was introduced, and rules were         coverage under Peru's pension systems
                             tightened for determining, adjusting and        remains very narrow and does not reach
                             capping benefits. The government was            its poorest citizens
                             also empowered to halt payments and
                             remove from the rolls persons who had
                             been entered into the system illegally.
                             Survivor benefit entitlements have been
                             rationalized under both the CV and SNP,
                             minimum pensions were introduced under
                             the SPP and raised under both the CV and
                             SNP. Any future modifications of the
                             public pension systems or the introduction
                             of any new system have been made
                             subject    to   a    criterion   of   fiscal
                             sustainability. Considerable progress has
                             also been made in cleaning up CV and
                             SNP rolls and improving the collection of
                             premiums.     Competition     for  affiliates
                             under the SPP has increased, and
                             premiums      have    been      substantially
                             reduced.

Protect budget allocations   Targeted expenditures levels were, in the       There is broad agreement that, by virtue
for the social sectors, with aggregate, complied with, although prior        of these commitments, social expenditures
particular focus on          to PSRL IV serious shortfalls were            S were accorded preferential protection in
specified priority social    experienced by specific PSPs, owing to          the    face     of    general   budgetary
programs in health,          diversions    of    funds    intended    for    retrenchment, but this protection had a
education, and social        investment and intermediate goods to            cost in terms of greater budgetary rigidity
protection.                  personnel          expenditures          and    that  restricted   the  access  of    other
                             overestimation of agency implementation         programs to funding. Moreover, the
                             capacities.                                     quality and efficiency of some of the
                                                                             protected programs was open to question.
                                                                             Protection of the PSPs continues under
                                                                             IDB programmatic lending.
Increase the Access of Poor Families to Quality Health and Education Services:

Expand coverage of the       Targets for the expansion of the number         PSRL played an important role in
integrated maternal and      of affiliates covered by the maternal and       promoting        the   expansion       and
infant health insurance      infant benefits under the SIS have been         improvement      of  SIS   coverage     for
program with particular      consistently surpassed, and corrective        S maternal and childcare, and sample data
targeting of the lowest      action was successfully taken under PSRL        are beginning to show results in falling
two income quintiles and     III to stem an erosion of resources in favor    infant mortality and deaths of mothers
services provided through    of tertiary care facilities. The benefits       due to childbirth. Bank support of the SIS



                                                                 - 26 -

levels I and II health posts package for maternal and infant care has       and other health sector reforms continues
and centers.                 been rationalized, including the addition      under the present and programmed health
                             of nutritional supplements and counseling      loans.
                             in nutrition and hygiene, and the system
                             has been simplified for clients by enabling
                             reimbursement      directly   to    service
                             providers. As a result of these efforts,
                             significant increases have been achieved
                             in the proportion of pregnant women
                             receiving professional medical attention
                             and the percentage of births that are
                             medically assisted.

Expand and strengthen        With the support of PSRL I and II, the         It is not clear why explicit support of the
the CLAS system of           community-managed        CLAS      primary     CLAS was discontinued after PSRL II. (It
community-managed            health clinics expanded nationwide to        P has continued to be supported, along with
primary health clinics.      account for some 35 percent of all             the SIS, by the Health Reform Loan.) It is
                             primary    health    establishments    and     feared that the tenuring of medical staff
                             demonstrated high levels of efficiency and     positions with the same labor protections
                             customer satisfaction. The future of this      as in public hospitals may now reduce the
                             innovation is in question, however, in the     operational flexibility that CLAS have
                             face of the effective "unionization" of its    enjoyed and erode work incentives. MEF
                             medical staff and continuing resistance in     and MINSA officials are reportedly also
                             some sectors of MINSA and from doctors.        uncomfortable    with   providing     public
                                                                            resources for such organizations. The
                                                                            future of the CLAS is now likely to be
                                                                            determined at the local level.

Introduce merit criteria in A new law was enacted introducing merit         Given the foreseeable political resistance
the hiring of new teachers criteria to the hiring of new tenured            and lack of broad public support, as well
and initiate actions to      teachers, and has been put into practice.      as the technical problems and substantial
reform the teaching career Existing career teachers were not affected,    P preparatory work required, inclusion of
structure, introduce a       however, by the law, and the powerful          this commitment early in the PSRL
teacher evaluation system, teachers union has continued to resist           program was overly optimistic. With
merit-based incentives,      such reform. A new teacher career law          public attention now better focused,
and sanctions for            has now been drafted and appears to be         including by the very low student
misconduct.                  gaining support from younger teachers          performance scores being made public
                             and the public.                                under the PSRL program, the possibility
                                                                            of meaningful reform now appears to be
                                                                            growing. Even if the draft law is enacted
                                                                            in the near future, a substantial effort will
                                                                            be required to assemble and verify the
                                                                            missing or unreliable information in
                                                                            existing teacher dossiers' needed to assign
                                                                            grade levels in a new merit-based salary
                                                                            structure. Assistance for this work is
                                                                            provided under the Rural Education
                                                                            Project.

Improve training for         Support    for   training    in   bilingual    As in its efforts to reform the teaching
multigrade classes and       multigrade teaching skills was included        career and incentives, PSRL objectives
bilingual teaching; and      under PSRL II. Several thousand teachers       were overly optimistic regarding political
develop, test, and initiate  were provided bilingual training, but little P support and implementation capacity in



                                                                - 27 -

implementation of a plan   progress was made in the second area.          MED. Progress in this area has also been
for the improvement of     The    pilot  testing   of  rural  teacher     impeded by frequent turnovers of top
rural education, including incentives and the establishment of parent     leadership in MED. Bank support for
special incentives and     participation    in    monitoring    made      these objectives continues under the Rural
training opportunities for important progress under PSRL IV after a       Education Project.
teachers in remote areas.  slow start under the earlier loans. An
                           independent external evaluation of the
                           experience thus far has verified a positive
                           impact of both the incentives and parent
                           monitoring on teacher attendance in the
                           schools. The pilot is being extended in
                           2005-2006 to evaluate impact on student
                           performance, and may be combined in
                           some areas with a new program offering
                           family    cash    allowances    contingent,
                           among      other    things,   on   student
                           attendance.
Increase the Transparency and Participation of the Poor in the Design and Monitoring of Social Programs:

Improve the information    The    Transparency     and    Access    to    A remarkable expansion has occurred
available to both          Information Law and its regulations have       over the past four years in the amount of
government managers        established extensive citizen rights to        information available to the public and
and the public regarding   information and mechanisms for holding         within the government itself about the
the allocation, use, and   public officials accountable. The SIAF         government's use of resources and its
results of public          system has been steadily expanded and          objectives. The SIAF has proven to be a
expenditures.              upgraded. It is processing all central         powerful tool for budget management and
                           government     financial   operations  and     for   generating   reliable   information
                           providing real time reports within the         rapidly to program managers and greater
                           government and accessible to the public        transparency to the public. Among its
                           on the web. Coverage includes, inter alia,     immediate tangible benefits has been the
                           all budgeted and realized transfers to the  S  reduction of abuses of the public payroll
                           sub-national        governments        and     and unauthorized shifts in the use of
                           procurements decisions and contracts.          budgeted resources. The availability of
                           The system has been installed in more          information to the public, particularly via
                           than   800    municipalities,   and   local    the internet, has rapidly expanded and
                           authorities and communities are being          become progressively more user-friendly.
                           provided technical assistance in its use.      Civil society organizations and the media
                           Websites have been established by MEF,         are  increasingly   drawing    upon    this
                           sector      ministries,     many      local    information    in  analysis  and    public
                           governments,       and     the    agencies     discussion, but its use, limited both by
                           administering social programs, reporting,      access to the technology and the technical
                           inter   alia,    their   strategic   plans,    capacities of potential users, remains
                           expenditures,    and    progress    toward     highly concentrated in Lima and other
                           objectives. Included are regular reports on    major population centers. Outreach efforts
                           national budget execution and progress         are being made, but progress is slow. The
                           toward meeting the benchmarks set out by       Bank is supporting the expansion of the
                           the   MMF.       Compliance     with    the    SIAF system through the ICFSDTAL and
                           Transparency Law and timely information        DECSAL I and II; and the upgrading and
                           dissemination regarding the use and            expansion    of  web-based    information
                           results of transfers received from the         dissemination through the ADSSTAL.)
                           central government are legally mandated
                           prerequisites for accrediting sub-national
                           governments to be granted decentralized



                                                              - 28 -

                            authority over social programs.

Develop participatory       The Letter of Social Policy that kicked off   Closely tied to the greater availability of
mechanisms for eliciting    the PSRL program was prepared by the          information, the growth over the past four
and mediating the views     Transition Government based on an             years of channels for bringing the views
of civil society regarding  extensive social dialogue, conducted in       of civil society to bear on government
social priorities and       large part through more than 450              decision-making has been remarkable,
policies, and for effective roundtables (Mesas de Concertación)           and there is a widespread perception that
social policy dialogue      organized at the national, departmental       government officials, particularly at the
with government.            and local levels. The Mesas and other         local levels, are increasingly responsive to
                            civil society organizations were also         those views. The government itself is
                            involved under the Toledo Government in     E beginning to recognize and utilize the
                            the drafting of departmental development      value of these mechanisms for building
                            plans and an Acuerdo Nacional, endorsed       consensus      on    politically   sensitive
                            by the major political parties and setting    issues--e.g., the closing of the CV and
                            out the priority objectives of the social     the reform of teacher incentives. PSRL
                            agenda. These consultative mechanisms         has given important support to sustaining
                            continue to function and are active           and extending these gains in the context
                            nationwide in a formal process of local       of decentralization. The institution of
                            participatory   budgeting--perhaps      the   participatory budgeting at the local level
                            most extensive mechanism of its kind in       has been supported also by DECSAL I
                            the world--mandated by law and made a         and II, and ADSSTAL is assisting the
                            precondition for the decentralization of      enhancement of the ENAHO. Remaining
                            social programs to local governments.         issues include the difficulties of more
                            More    specialized    groups,   including    fully integrating the rural population into
                            national councils on education and health,    the participatory processes and questions
                            have been established and are active in       regarding the how well participating civil
                            discussing,   proposing,     and    vetting   society   organizations     represent  their
                            policies in their respective areas. A         claimed constituencies. The participatory
                            module for tracking public perceptions on     mechanisms that have been created are
                            transparency and the performance of           intended to be consultative rather than
                            major social programs has been added to       decision-making      and     need   to   be
                            the    National     Household       Survey    complemented by actions to enhance the
                            (ENAHO), and its results are widely           capacities    and     efficiency   of    the
                            disseminated and discussed.                   institutions of representative democracy.

Introduce systematic        The SIAF rapidly developed into an            Design of the monitoring system has
monitoring and              effective mechanism for monitoring the        proven more difficult than anticipated and
evaluation of social        use of financial resources in accordance      was not given adequate priority early in
expenditures with the       with     budgetary     allocations,    and    the program. Technical difficulties have
participation of civil      monitoring indicators, particularly with      become apparent in linking outcomes to
society.                    regard    to  pro-poor    targeting   were    expenditures in the SIAF system, and
                            developed early in the program for the        progress has also suffered from delays in
                            PSPs. The development and increasing        P the agreement, design, and approval of
                            application of management agreements          the technical assistance loan that was
                            between MEF, the sector ministries,           originally expected to be in place early in
                            program implementing units and the            the program. Time is also required for
                            sub-national    governments     are   also    many of the intended beneficiaries in the
                            providing a promising monitoring tool         civil society to fully comprehend their
                            and means of motivating performance. A        right to hold public officials accountable
                            legal framework has been put in place         and to develop appropriate standards
                            mandating the establishment of a system       against    which      to    measure    their
                            for the monitoring of social programs,        performance. The ADSSTAL, approved



                                                               - 29 -

including the creation of local oversight      in June 2004, is providing assistance
councils (Consejos de Vigilancia) with         focused on participatory planning and
civil society participation. At the sector     M&E, with particular focus on the
level, PSRL supported the expansion of         decentralized social  programs  under
community-managed        primary    health     MIMDES, and includes strengthening the
clinics (CLAS). It also supported the          monitoring capacities of civil society
creation   of   local   school   councils,     organizations.
mandated     by    law    with    parental
participation, and the pilot program for
rural teacher incentives have shown them
to be effective in improving teacher
attendance. Many government agencies
have established systems for receiving and
responding to citizen complaints, but little
information is available regarding how
well they are functioning. A pilot
initiative under PSRL I to establish a
system for citizen oversight of social
programs showed poor results and was
dropped.




                                  - 30 -

End Notes:

1. Law No. 28411
2. E.g., Supreme Decree No. 066-2004-PCM, which sets out a national strategy for the achievement of food
    security covering the years 2004-2015; Law No. 28273, which sets out the process and criteria for accrediting
    regional and local governments to receive administrative authority for the programs and for monitoring their
    management performance; Supreme Decree No. 130-2004-EF and Resolution No. 400-2004-PCM, which
    define the targeting criteria to be applied; Presidential Resolution No. 057-CND-P-2004, which sets out the
    contractual arrangements under which the transfers are to be managed and monitored; and Ministerial
    Resolution No. 681-2004-MIMDES, which defines the incentives and sanctions to apply to the related
    management agreements between the central government and the regional and local governments.
3. In a two-step process, the participation agreement first provides for co-management between the Ministry and
    the local government, accompanied by technical assistance from the former to the latter. Then, under the
    management agreement, full administrative responsibility passes to the local authorities with quarterly
    monitoring of performance indicators.
 4. "Plan de Acción de los Sistemas de Pensiones en Perú, 2004-2008," Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas,
    Octubre 2004.
 5. Law No. 28389.
 6. Law No. 28449
 7. The numbers given are gross--i.e., not yet adjusted for contracts expired during the year (e.g., for completion
    of pregnancy or exceeding age limits).
8. The positions not yet covered are in remote, mostly jungle, locations.
9. For example, Law Nos. 27806 and 27927, and Supreme Decree No. 043-2003-PCM, which set out the
    responsibilities of public sector agencies to provide information to the public, assure transparency in the
    management of public finances, and account for the results of their expenditures; Law No. 28056 and Supreme
    Decree No. 171-2003-EF, which mandate and define the process of participatory budgeting at the regional and
    local levels of government; and Law No. 28273, which sets out the objectives, criteria, and assignment of
    responsibilities governing the accreditation of sub-national governments to assume the management of
    decentralized programs.
10. Supreme Decree No. 002-2004-MIMDES.
11. Level of Achievement: E=Exceeded expectations; S=Satisfied expectations; P=Partially satisfied expectations;
    F=Failed.
12. Formerly PROMUDEH.
13. Other allocation criteria for the food programs include areas with prevalent nutritional deficiencies and
    children under age five years. The SIS also gives particular focus to providing coverage to services for infants
    and pregnant and lactating women in the rural and marginal urban areas.
14. Consideration is now being given to the introduction of individual socio-economic ID cards to certify family
    eligibility for program subsidies.
15. Together these two programs account for about 60 percent of public expenditures for food distribution.




                                                       - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable.




                                      - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               03/2004                  10    Task team leader (1); Country
                                              Economist (1); Sector Specialists
                                              (5); JPA(1); ACS (1); Consultant
                                              (1).
               06/2004                  12    Task team leader (1); Country
                                              Economist (2); Sector Specialists
                                              (7); ACS (1); Consultant (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               09/2004                  12    Task team leader (1);
                                              Country Economist (2);
                                              Sector Specialists (7); ACS
                                              (1); Consultant (1).


 Supervision
               N/A


 ICR
               09/2005                   4     Task team leader (1); ACS
                                               (1); Consultants (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               N/A                              N/A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   32.19                        66,455.75
  Supervision
  ICR                                      2.51                        3,449.53
  Total                                   34.70                        69,905.28




                                               - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Peruvian Government Documents

    Laws and Decrees

1. Anexo a la Resolución Ministerial No. 400-2004-PCM que aprobó el Indice de Asignación Geográfica, la
    Metodología de Cálculo del Indice de Focalización de Hogares y la Ficha Socioeconómica Unica, El Peruano,
    26 de diciembre de 2004.
2. Decreto Supremo 038-2004-PCM, Aprueban el Plan Anual de Transferencias de Competencias Sectoriales a
    los Gobiernos Regionales y Locales del año 2004.
3. Decreto Supremo 064-2004-PCM, Aprueban el Plan Nacional para la Superación de la Pobreza 2004-2006.
4. Decreto Supremo No. 002-2004-MIMDES, Reglamento de la Ley No. 27767, 18 marzo de 2004.
5. Decreto Supremo No. 006-2004-PCM, Aprueban la Estrategia Nacional de Seguridad Alimentaria 2004-2015.
6. Decreto Supremo No. 009-2004-PCM, Acciones para el fortalecimiento de los Programas y Proyectos Sociales
    y de Lucha contra la Pobreza, El Peruano, 6 de febrero de 2004.
7. Decreto Supremo No. 112-2003-EF, Otorga garantía del Gobierno Nacional a emisión de Bonos de
    Reconocimiento de la ONP a fin de atender requerimientos generados por trabajadores afiliados al Sistema
    Privado de Administración de Fondos de Pensiones, El Peruano, 31 de Julio de 2003.
8. Decreto Supremo No. 130-2004-EF, Establecen criterios y mecanismos para mejorar la equidad y calidad en el
    gasto social, y la prioridad de atención de grupos beneficiarios, a través de la focalización, El Peruano, 10 de
    setiembre de 2004.
9. Decreto Supremo No. 171-2003-EF, Aprueban Reglamento de la Ley No. 28056 ­ Ley Marco del Presupuesto
    Participativo, 25 de noviembre de 2003.
10. Ley No. 27731, Ley que Regula la Participación de los Clubes de Madres y Comedores Populares
    Autogestionarios en los Programas de Apoyo Alimentario, 23 de mayo de 2002.
11. Ley No. 27767, Ley del Programa Nacional Complementario de Asistencia Alimentaria, 26 de junio de 2002.
12. Ley No. 27806, Ley de Transparencia y Acceso a la Información Pública, 13 de agosto de 2002.
13. Ley No. 27927, Ley que Modifica la Ley No. 27806, 4 de febrero de 2003.
14. Ley No. 28046 que crea el Fondo y la Contribución Solidaria para la Asistencia Previsional, el Peruano, 31 de
    Julio de 2003.
15. Ley No. 28047 que actualiza el porcentaje de aporte destinado al Fondo de Pensiones de Los Trabajadores del
    Sector Público Nacional y regula las nivelaciones de las pensiones del régimen del Decreto Ley No. 20530, el
    Peruano, 31 de Julio de 2003.
16. Ley No. 28273, Ley del Sistema de Acreditación de los Gobiernos Regionales y Locales, El Peruano, 9 de Julio
    de 2004.
17. Ley No. 28389, Ley de Reforma de los Artículos 11, 103 y Primera Disposición Final y Transitoria de la
    Constitución Política del Perú, 12 de noviembre de 2004.
18. Ley No. 28411, Ley General del Sistema Nacional de Presupuesto, 25 de noviembre de 2004.
19. Ley No. 28449, Ley que Establece Las Nuevas Reglas del Régimen de Pensiones del Decreto Ley No. 20530,
    10 de diciembre de 2004.
20. Plan Anual de Transferencia y Competencias Sectoriales a los Gobiernos Regionales y Locales del Año 2005,
    MIMDES, Boletín No. 12, Año 2, agosto de 2005.
21. Proyecto de Ley de Reforma Constitucional en materia de pensiones del Decreto Ley No. 20530: Implicancias
    en las Finanzas Públicas, Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, 26 de abril de 2004.
22. Resolución Presidencial No. 057-CND-2004, Aprueban Directiva de procedimientos, plazos y mecanismos de
    verificación para la ejecución de la transferencia a los Gobiernos Regionales y Locales de los Fondos,
    Proyectos y Programas contenidos en el D.S. No. 038-2004-PCM, 6 de Julio de 2004.
23. Texto Unico Ordenado de la Ley de Contrataciones y Adquisiciones del Estado y su Reglamento,
    CONSUCODE, 2005.




                                                      - 37 -

    Reports, Studies, and Other Official Documents

1. Acuerdo de Gestión Año 2005, Ministerio de Salud y El Gobierno Regional de Amazonas, 4 de Julio de 2005.
2. Balance General de Educación, Boletín No. 1, MEF, Marzo, 2005.
3. Balance General de Salud, Boletín No. 1, MEF, Marzo, 2005.
4. Balance General MIMDES, Boletín No. 1, MEF, Marzo, 2005.
5. El Modelo de Descentralización Peruana, Consejo Nacional de Descentralización, agosto de 2005.
6. Evaluación del proceso de implementación del diseño 2005 y recojo de información: Plan Piloto META 2005,
    Ministerio de Educación, agosto de 2005.
7. Hoja de Ruta, abril de 2004-marzo de 2005.
8. Lineamientos para la gestión descentralizada de los programas sociales transferidos a los Gobiernos Locales,
    MIMDES, 25 de diciembre de 2004.
9. Logros SIS 2004, Ministerio de Salud, (undated).
10. Los Sistemas de Pensiones en Perú, Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, mayo de 2004.
11. Marco Macroeconómico Multianual 2005-2007, aprobado en sesión de Consejo de Ministros, 26 de mayo de
    2004.
12. Plan de Acción de los Sistemas de Pensiones en Perú 2004-2008, Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, octubre
    de 2004.
13. Plan Piloto de Bonificaciones Especiales para Docentes den Areas Rurales: Informe de Avance, Ministerio de
    Educación, agosto de 2004.
14. Ponencias Presentadas en el Seminario Internacional: La Contratación Estatal-Propuesta de Estrategias para
    Impulsar el Desarrollo con Transparencia y Equidad, CONSUCODE, 2005.
15. Proyecto de Convenio de Gestión entre La Municipalidad y el MIMDES.
16. Proyecto Transparencia en la Adquisiciones Estatales: Folletos explicativas sobre la Ley de Contrataciones y
    Adquisiciones del Estado (undated).
17. Seguro Integral de Salud: Estadísticas a Julio 2005, Ministerio de Salud, 23 de agosto de 2005.
18. Sistema Nexus: Administración y Control de Plazas y de Personal, Ministerio de Educación, (Power Point
    presentation), 2005.
19. Sistema Unico de Planillas: Ayuda Memoria, Ministerio de Educación , 2005

Peruvian Non-Government Reports and Papers

1. A Tres Años de la suscripción de las políticas de Estado (Avances a Julio del 2005), Acuerdo Nacional,
    setiembre de 2005.
2. Balance de la Descentralización y Perspectivas de la Integración, Participa Perú, No. 26-27, agosto de 2005.
3. Encuesta Demográfica y de Salud Familiar: Informe Preliminar, INEI, USAID y Measure DHS+, abril de
    2005.
4. Hacia un Proyecto Educativo Nacional 2006-2021, Consejo Nacional de Educación, octubre de 2005.
5. Pacto Social de Compromisos Recíprocos por la Educación 2004-2006, Foro del Acuerdo Nacional, 4 de mayo
    de 2004.
6. Santiago Cueto et. al, "Primer Informe: Evaluación de impacto de la asistencia docente sobre el rendimiento
    de los estudiantes," (undated).
7. Sistema Vigila Perú: Vigilando la Descentralización, Participa Perú, No. 25, agosto de 2005.

World Bank Documents

    Project Documents, Implementation Completion Reports, and Country Strategy Paper

1. Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Republic of Peru, Report No. 30292-PE, November 9,
    2004.
2. Implementation Completion Report on a Loan in the Amount of US$100 Million to the Republic of Peru for
    the Programmatic Social Reform Loan I, Report No. 23755, March 26, 2002.
3. Implementation Completion Report on a Loan of US$ 100 Million to the Republic of Peru for the


                                                      - 38 -

    Programmatic Social Reform Loan II, Report No. 25864, June 23, 2003.
4. Implementation Status and Results, Peru: Accountability for Decentralization in the Social Sectors Technical
    Assistance Project, August 4, 2005.
5. Implementation Status and Results, Peru: Health Reform Program, July 1, 2005.
6. Implementation Status and Results, Peru: Rural Education Project, September 6, 2005.
7. OED reviews of PSRL I, II, and III.
8. Program Document for a Proposed Fourth Programmatic Social Reform Loan in the Amount of US$100
    Million to the Republic of Peru, Report No. 30133-PE, November 8, 2004.
9. Program Document for a Proposed Programmatic Decentralization and Competitiveness Structural Adjustment
    Loan in the Amount of US$150 Million for the Republic of Peru, Report No. 26837-PE, November 3, 2003.
10. Program Document for a Proposed Second Programmatic Decentralization and Competitiveness Structural
    Adjustment Loan in the Amount of US$100 Million for the Republic of Peru, Report No. 30249-PE, November
    2, 2004.
11. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Adaptable Program Loan in the Amount of US$52.5 Million to the
    Republic of Peru for a Rural Education Project in Support of the First Phase of the Rural Education Program,
    Report No. 23843-PE, April 30, 2003.
12. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US7.8 Million to the Republic of Peru for
    an Accountability for Decentralization in the Social Sectors Technical Assistance Project, Report No.
    27924-PE, June 18, 2004.
13. Simplified Implementation Completion Report on a Loan in the Amount of US$ 150 Million to the Republic
    of Peru for the Programmatic Social Reform Loan III, Report No. 29650-PE, December 20, 2004.

    Studies

1. Opportunities for All: Peru Poverty Assessment, Report No. 29825-PE, June 2005.
2. Peru: Restoring the Multiple Pillars of Old Age Income Security, Report No. 27618-PE. January 26, 2004.
3. Plan Piloto de Bonificaciones Especiales para Docentes en Areas Rurales: Informe de Avance, Ministerio de
    Educación, agosto de 2004.
4. Richard Webb and Sofia Valencia, Human Resources in Public Health and Education in Peru, Volume 1,
    Recurso Peru Project, August 22, 2005
5. Voice in the Accountability of Social Policy, Recurso Peru Project, Chapter 7 (draft).

    Informal Papers

1. Ayuda Memoria de Misión de Evaluación (PSRL IV), 20-24 de setiembre de 2004.
2. Minutes of IM Review Meeting, Peru: PSRL IV. September 27, 2004.
3. Minutes of Quality Enhancement Review Meeting, Peru: Programmatic Social Reform Loan IV, October 4,
    2004.




                                                     - 39 -

- 40 -

