Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1179 
Operation Name 
PE-Programmatic Social Reform Loan IV 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (40%);Health (25%);General education 
sector (20%);Non-compulsory health finance (8%);Compulsory 
pension and unemployment insurance (7%) 
Project ID 
P083968 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Environment Assessment 
OD 4.01 applies?  [ ] Yes  [x] No 
Date PID Prepared 
October 18, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 12, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
December 7, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
As a transitional government took over in Peru in 2000, the economic and social situation was critical, 
with falling GDP, weak fiscal conditions, and access to social services by the poor limited, affected by 
serious efficiency problems and a total lack of transparency or monitoring. As the new government 
began its term, efforts in both the economic and social fronts were focused on stabilizing and 
guaranteeing continuity of programs, beginning a redesign process to improve the overall situation. In 
that context, the Bank provided support though the Programmatic Social Reform Loan, approved in 
April 2001, with a focus on social expenditure, transparency, and rationalization. 
The economic situation has significantly improved in Peru since 2000. Growth has been sustained since 
2001 and reached an average of 4.5 percent in 2002-03 (and is expected to continue at that level in 2005-
06). This growth was obtained in a context of austerity, as fiscal management has been consistent, 
leading to a steady improvement in public accounts. Public sector deficit has been declining, going from 
2.2 percent of GDP in 2002 to a projected 1.4 percent in 2004, and the 2005 budget projects to further 
reduce it to 1 percent of GDP.   
 
2. Operation Objectives 
The PSRL program of reforms has now extended to four stages, in a period of over four years. In a 
changing institutional and economic environment
—adapting to two different governments, at least 
sixteen ministers and many more lower level officials in the three social sectors—the program has 
preserved its three original goals to: 
(i) 
improve the antipoverty focus of public expenditures;  
(ii) 
 increase the access of the poor to quality health and education services;  
(iii) 
enhance the transparency of social programs, while empowering their 
beneficiaries in their design and implementation.   
Within these goals, the PSRL IV will support efforts to complete and consolidate reforms in five areas: 
(i) social expenditures management, (ii) redesign, targeting, and administration of social protection 
programs, (iii) access to health services, (iv) access and efficiency in education, and (v) transparency 
and accountability in the social sectors. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Page  2
In the social sectors, efforts to reform policies were focused in improving the profile of social 
expenditures, increase access by the poor to basic services, and eliminate a culture of secrecy and lack of 
transparency. As the Government designed and began developing its medium term program, the World 
Bank supported the process, first by promoting the adoption of clear policy principles and goals, and 
then by collaborating in the implementation of the different programs, supporting the policy agenda 
through the Programmatic Social Reform Loan, and more specific actions through investment loans in 
Health and Education. As the Government began advancing towards decentralization, a specific 
adjustment operation to support its implementation was prepared (DECSAL) and some areas of the 
PSRL were adapted to provide support to the social programs through the decentralization process. 
 
PSRL IV will be the last stage of the programmatic support the Bank provided to the Government of 
Peru in its effort to reform the social sectors. As such, the focus of the loan and the rationale for the 
Bank’s involvement is the consolidation of reforms designed or implemented with support of previous 
operations. By completing the transition towards a more open, accessible system with stable financing 
and transparent management, the PSRL IV is strongly increasing the sustainability of reforms introduced 
in Peru’s social sectors in the last four years. 
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Loan will be implemented by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and it will consist of a single-
tranche disbursement for $100 million. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits.
 The PSRL program was designed to support structural reforms in the social sectors, rather than 
to provide transitional income support for the poor. These reforms aimed to increasing access to and 
improve the quality of basic services.  They were therefore designed to foster human capital 
accumulation and, as a result, improve the living conditions of the poor in the medium term by 
expanding their social and economic opportunities. Thus, this program must be evaluated not in terms of 
its impact on income poverty but in terms of its impact on social indicators such as enrolment rates and 
access to primary health care. 
 
Although the nature of the reforms is such that their full realization will take years, available 
information on selected indicators suggests that some of the expected improvements have already started 
to materialize. For example, on the fiscal front the program has had a positive effect on the protection of 
priority social programs and on the reform of the civil servants pension regime; regarding equity and 
transparency, it has supported the development of a monitoring and evaluation system for the PSPs; 
finally, as a result of the measures completed in the health sector, access to health services has improved 
dramatically with the rapid expansion of coverage for the Integrated Health System –SIS 
 
Risks.
 
This being the last stage of a programmatic loan, the most serious risk is sustainability, as there 
will be no future operations to continue support of this exact reform program. Also, a serious weakness 
Page  3
that goes beyond the PSRL is the low support for President Toledo’s administration. Isolated but 
growing regional unrest and continued low levels of public support and the uncertainty surrounding the 
2006 presidential elections are putting pressure on the Government to limit reforms and increase 
expenditure. The advances in decentralization, while positive in theory, could result in negative effects 
in the social sectors if they are decentralized without the necessary safeguards and controls to ensure 
sustainability in service provision.  
 
Two factors reduced the probability that these risks will affect the program’s sustainability. First, 
through the PSRL, core mechanisms of a poverty reduction strategy have been adopted by the Peruvian 
government and built into management and budgetary structures. Also, PSRL has promoted a 
participatory approach in the design and implementation of social policies, with active participation of 
civil society at different levels of government and consultations with sub-national governments. This 
active involvement of numerous actors in the implementation and provision of social policies and 
services will enable reforms to be further protected from instability within the central government.  The 
implementation of a transparent evaluation and monitoring scheme, support for expansion of the CLAS 
model in health services provision, and changes in procurement are a few examples of policies that will 
result in more sustained and better involvement by NGOs and beneficiaries, demand for accountability 
and their ownership over the programs, and hence, an expansion of the basis of political support of the 
reforms in the long term. 
 
The second mitigating factor is that, while PSRL will not continue, the Bank will be remain closely 
associated with reforms, supporting them through other operations and sustaining a policy dialogue. The 
continuing operations include the Decentralization and Competitiveness Programmatic Loan 
(“DECSAL”) and the Technical Assistance Loans for the Social Sectors and Decentralization. DECSAL 
will continue to support the implementation of decentralization in the Social Sectors, while the 
Technical Assistance Loan will finance further development of specific activities included in PSRL. 
Also, a new ESW on the social sectors (“RECURSO PERU”) will provide an opportunity for the Bank 
to maintain and deepen the policy dialogue in preparation for upcoming social sector operations, helping 
to increase the sustainability of PSRL reforms. 
 
7.  Poverty Category and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed loan will provide financial support to the ongoing reform program for the social sectors. 
As such, it will accompany existing processes, rather than trigger new ones, so as to maximize their 
overall effectiveness and poverty reduction impact. In order to achieve the goals of increased access to 
and improved quality of social services, the loan policy matrix provides continuity for the retargeting of 
selected social programs, such as the Feeding and Nutrition Programs, while supporting coverage 
expansion of basic services, such as primary education, health care and, in the medium term, pensions. 
 
Better targeting of resources, together with coverage expansion, are expected to improve the overall 
allocation of public resources for the social sectors, while increasing access and quality of services for 
the poor and vulnerable. As a result, we do not foresee any negative distributional impact associated 
with such measures, nor any significant social opposition to the continuity of the program. 
As the loan focuses on reforming social policies and institutions at the macro level, we do not foresee 
any significant impact on the environmental situation in Peru. Actions included in the policy matrix aim 
to increase access to basic social services by the poor by improving fiscal and financial conditions and 
strengthening the institutions involved in service delivery. 
 
Page  4
While some of the proposed actions are related to the health system, they do not have, directly or 
indirectly, an environmental effect, since they focus on the institutional arrangements between the 
central government and local authorities, the development of mechanisms to improve community 
control over health services quality, and a financial scheme to provide care for mothers and children 
under five years old. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Rafael P. Rofman 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: +54 11 4316-0663 
Fax: +54 11 4313-1233 
Email: rrofman@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
