Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12310
PROJECT COUPLEIIOW REPORT
IDONESIA
FOURTH POPUIATION PROJECT
(WMR 2529-TnD)
SEPTEMBER 14, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12310
Type: PCR
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
hids document has a resticd d _bon ad may be used by recpient only in the pedonnanoe of
their offia dus. Its contents may _t oewise be dklosed witout World Bson a



CURRENCY EQUIALENTS
Name of Currency: Rupiah
At appraisal (1085): USS = Rupiah 1,100
1986/87:   US$1 = Rupiah 1,100
1987/88:   US$1 - Rupiah 1,644
1988/89:   US$1 = Rupiab 1,686
1989/90:   US$1 = Rupi&b 1,770
1990191:   US$1 = Rupiah 1,843
1991/92:   US$1 = Rupiah 2,020
FlSCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AVA                :     Audio Visual Aids
BAPPENAS           :     National Development Planning Agency
BKKBN              :     National Family Planning Coordinating Board
C                  :     Citizen Band Radio
3EPKES             :     Ministry of Health
FKIP                     School of Education
FSU                :     Florida State University
GOI                :     Government of the Republic of Indonesia
IBRD               :     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                :     International Competitive Biding
IDP                      International Program  of Australian Universities and
Colleges
MEC                      Information, education and Communication
IKIP               :     Institute for Education
IaJD               :     Intra-Uterine Device
KLH                :     Ministry of Population and Environment
LCB                :     Local Competitive Bidding
MIU                :     Mobile Information Unit
MOEC               :     Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF                :     Ministry of Finance
NGO                      Non-Government Organization
NSAID              :     Non-Steroid Anti-Inflammatory Drugs
NTC                :     National Training Center
OED                :     Operations Evaluation Department
PCR                      Project Completion Report
PLKB               :     Family Planning Field Worker
PPKBD              :     Family Planning Field Supervisor
RC                       Research Center
REPELITA           :     Five-Year Development Plan
SAR                :     Staff Appraisal Report
SW                 :     Staff Weeks
TA                 :     Technical Assistance
UNFPA              :     United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UPT                      Transmigration resetlement Units
UPPK                     Provincial Population Education Implementing Unit
USAID                    United States Agency for International Development
VCDC                     Village Contraceptive Distribution Center
WHO                      World Health Organization



FOR OMCJAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD MNK
Washkt  D.C. 20433
U.SA
Op.mln Eveiuon
September 14,1993
MEONUM TO THE EXTE DIRECTORS   THE PRESIDET
SUBECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia
FoAh Pouation Proec£tLoan 2S29-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Fourth
Population Project (Loan 2529-IND) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office. Part II of the report was prepared by the Borrower. The report provides a
satisfactory assessment of project achievements.
The project was to assist two key agencies in family planning in Indonesia-
the Natural Family Pianning Board and the Minitry of Population and Enviromuent.
Specific components included field operations, staff development, information, education
and communication, development of capabilities for research and policy planning, and
institution building and training for third parties (universities and NGOs).
On the whole, the project outcome can be considered satisfactory, although
institutional development objectives in research and polcy planimng were only partly
realized. Overall sustainability of project achievements appears likely.
Since the first two population projects in Indonesia were audited and the
entire sectoral portfolio has been reviewed in the 1991 OED study on the Bank's
population activities, a performance audit of this project is not intended.
Attachment
IThi docment has a rested d sistbution and may be used by recipients only In the pedormance of their official
dudes. No contenb may not otherwise be dislosed without Uorld Bank autorzation.



VOR OFFMCIL USl ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONIM
FoUT PoPunTION PROJECT
(TON2S29-4ND)
TEAx  01 CONT8T
Page No
PREFACE    .        .... 4 ..................................           i
PROJECr EVALUATION SUMNiARY  ........................                   ii
PART L PROJECr RVIEWV FROM  MDA PERVSP             E ......             1
Projeoc Identity  ......... ,   ......................            I
ProjectBacdound                                                   1
Project Objectivs and Dr         scrip.on                         2
Projectdgn and Cgizan dOr.on                                      4
Project Imp.e.entatin                                             5
MajorProject Results                                              9
Projec Sustainaiity                                              11
Bank Performance                                                 13
Borrower Performance                                             14
Lessons Lmed   .                      .14
Project Relationships    ..16
Consulting Serices    ..16
Project Documentation and Data    .          .16
PART UL PROJECr REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                     17
Introducdon   ..17
Proed Description    ..17
ProjectResults    ..20
Project Benefits and Performance .........................       28
Bank's Performance .................                             31
Government's Performance ..............................          31
PART IL STATISTICAL NFORMATION
3.1 Rlated Bank Loans .33
3.2 ProjectTimetable .36
3.3 Loan Disbursements .37
3.4 Project bnplementation ..............................        38
3.5 Project Costs and Financng .42
3.6 Studies .44
3.7 Compliance with Covenants .47
3.8 Use of Bak Resources .48
MAP - IBRD 18666R (PPA)
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECr COMPLEllON REPORT
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
(In 2529-ND)
PREFACE
Thi is a Proect Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Population
Pr,oiect in Indonesia which was financed by an IBRD Loan 2529-INI) appmved in 1985
for U1S$46 million equivalent. The Loan Agreement was amended in 1986 and again
in 1987 end the loan amount reduced to US$35.1 million equivalent. The ban closing
date of March 31, 1991 was extended for one year, until March 31. 1992, although
disbursements for two categories were allowed until December 31, 1992. Approamately
93, percent of the amended loan amount was disbursed up to that date.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and Im of this PCR were
prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division, Country Department III,
Bast Asia and Pacific Region. Ti PCR was prepared in accordance with the
Gidelines issues in June, 1989 and it is based on data provided by 001, a review of
World Bank records, interviews with Bank staff involved with the project, a Bank
country sector study, and an OED report on population projects in eight countries
including the experience in Indonesia It also incorporates findings of a Bank mission
that visited Indonesia in April, 1992. Part II of the PCR was prepared by the Borrower.



- lit~ -
PROJECI COMPIMIEON REPORT
INDONESA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECr
(LOAN 2529-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introducto
i         High fertlity and rapid population growth were identified in ndonesia m
the early 1970's as serious constraints to economic development. At that time, the
government adopted a policy of fertility reduction and initiated a family planning
program, strongly supported at the highest level of government, which soon became one
of the most successful and innovative in the world. During the 1980s, Indonesia
experienced rapid fertility decline, from a total fertility rate of 10 in the early 1970s, to
3.4 in 1988. This decline was brought about by socioeconomic changes, but perhaps as
signficant was the use of contraception.
Project Objechtes, Content and Desigp
i,        The project was intended to firther strengthen the National Family
Planning Board (BKKBN) to pursue GOI's famfly planning and fertlity reducdon goals
and assist the Ministry of Population and Environment (KLH) in fulfilling its policy and
coordinating role. The project contnribted to a major program expansion and it also
supported innovative approaches to reach transmigration areas and districts in the Outer
Islands IL To achieve these objectives, the project was to finance, in BKKBN, field
operations development, staff development, information, education and communication
(EC), population education, service delivery development in transmnigration areas, and
institutional capacity building for research. In KM, the project was to support
formulation and follow up of a population plan of action, institution building for
population study centers in unijersities and training for NGOs. Fnancing was to be
provided for buildings for BKKBNT district offices to complete the national n',twork,
equipment, vehicles and materials, local and foreign fellowships, local staff training, and
technical assistance.
iii.      The project was appraised in 1984, the fourth in a series of Bank
population projects respectively approved in 1972, 1977 and 1980, all of them integral
parts of the national family planning program; the project was identified and appraised
in the context of an agreed GOI-Bank-other donors strategy for expanding family
planning services and enhancing institutional capacity for policy development and
research.



- iv -
ImplementaIon Experience
iv.       With some exceptions, tfie project was implemented in accordance with the
plan agreed at appraisal and negotations. The Loan became effective in November,
1985 and closed on March 31, 1992 after a one-year extension. Additionally, in order
to enable completion of studies by several fellows, the Bank authorized continuation of
reimbursements for consultant services, local and overseas fellowships and local training
(Categories 3 and 4 of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement) until December 31, 1992.
During the first two years of the proJect there were two cancellations of the Loan
amount - $8.4 million in June, 1985 and $2.5 million in April, 1987 - because of
currency devaluation, and downsizing of some buildings due to new 001 regulations.
By December 31, 1992 the amended loan of $35.1 million had been disbursed in the
amount of $ 32.5 million.  Overall, project implementation was satisfactory.
Construction of 81 (from 84 planned) district offices was compled in September 1988,
the national training center building was finished in 1989, and expansion of the latter
to include an international training program in 1991. Further, the project achieved its
objectives through developmental program activities coordinated by BKKBN, which
consisted of: improving and expanding the national IEC program in order to reach
several target audiences, by setting up mobile units and producing T.V. flms and radio
programs; developing manpower through 156 overseas and local fellowships and in-
service training, including midwives training; establishing population education as a
regular program of the Ministry of Education and Culture; and conducting innovative
approaches to provide family planning, health and nutrition services in newly
transmigrated territories. Imnlementation of KLH's part of the project consisted in
completion of overseas graduate studies by 93 faculty members from population study
centers at universities and of 60 master level graduates from two national universities.
Additionally, cosisultants to KLH prepared several reports for use in preparation of
REPELITA V. Overall project management and implementation were satisfactory.
There were, however, a few specific problems which are discussed under Results,
below.
Results
v.        The project objectives of further strengthening BKKBN to pursue GOI's
family planning and fertility reduction goals were generally achieved. The project
inputs, together with program assistance from other donors -particularly UNFPA and
USAID - and GOI flnancing were essential to the expansion and increased intensity of
the fanily planning program in Indonesia during the 1980's. It also enabled innovations
on how to provide services in remote and isolated areas of the country. The offices and
training center built through this project are, according to OED, of excellent quality,
not an inconsequential achievement for a program that must change social mores and
attract its clientele. Even more important than financial and physical inputs from the
Bank, this project enabled the continuation of Bank dialogue with the Government and
other donors, that rendered positive benefits. The objective of sub stantial strengthening
of BKKBN research capability was, however, only partially attained (remaining
constraints regarding research are being addressed in considerable detail by the recent
Fifth Population Project). KLH accomplished modest but perceivable achievements in
development of population study centers in universities through graduate training of its



faculty. Regarding institution building for population policy development, results fell
short of initial objectives, but there were several accomplishments. KLH local and
foreign consultants produced technical papers- if not a fully consolidated plan of action
- which were used in preparation of the national 5-year plans between 1985 and 1989.
Training of NGOs in population topics was financed by GOI and took place during the
first two years of the project. And fmally, overseas fellowship; under KLH were
administered effe;tively by two contractors under arrangements additional to the original
project design, made during imnplementation with Bank concurrence. Utilization of
technical assistance by BKKBN was adequate in all service components, but less
successful regarding building up of in-house research. The contributions of the local
consultants hired by BKKBN under the project were visible and generally satisfactory.
KLH employment of individual consultants resulted in several reports that were useful
for guiding preparation of national population plans.
Lessons Learned
vi.       The generally successful implementation of this project was in large part
a consequence of the high government comnuitment to the project objectives. The
following are major lessons learned from this project, for future applications:
(a) Institution building components need to pay special attention to the design
of technical assistance, as well as to the assessment of the staff
complement and capacity of the organization being developed; omissions
in this respect led to poor results regarding KLH development as a policy
institution and BKKBN research capacity building.
(b)  Formal oordination between the implementing agencies (BKKBN and
KLH) would have facilitated resolution of common problems and should
have been addressed during project preparation and appraisal.
(c)  When projects involve two or more agencies -- as was the case of this
project and of earlier population projects which included BKKBN and the
Ministry of Health-- the design has to take great care in inspiring a similar
sense of project ownershiD in all participating agencies.
(d)  Several pitfalls in project implementation could have been avoided with
additional preparatorv work. Major adjustments in project costs (from
$94.4 million to $44.8 million) could have been avoided through careful
preparation of the construction and technical assistance components.
(e)  Moderately higher use of consultants in supervision missions during the
middle years of the project could have benefited the project, particularly
in overseeing training, studies, the innovative component in transmigration
areas and research and institution building.



PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPUIATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2529-IND)
PART k- Projet Review and Bans Perspetive
Prject Identily
Project Name     :Fourth Population Project
Credit No.       :2529-IND
Credit Amount    :US$46 mfllion (amended to US$35.1 million)
RVP Unit         :East Asia and Pacific
Countty          :Indonesia
Sector           :Population and Human Resources
Subsector        :Population
Background
1.1       High ferity and rapid population growth were identtfied in Indonesia in
the early 1970's as serious constraints to economic development. At that time, the
government adopted a policy of fertflity reduction through campaigns of public
education on the advantages of a small fimily and provision of fmily planning services.
Indonesia's family planning program, strongly supported at the highest level of
government, soon became one of the most successful and innovative in the world.
Although fertlity did not begin to decline until the late 1970s, once the total fertility
rate dropped below 5, it declined rapidly during the 1980's, to 3.4 in 1988; similarly, the
crude birth rate declined to 28 per thousand, from 43 in 1970. It was also during the
1980's that Indonesia experienced most of the expansion in contraceptive use, from less
than 10 percent in the 1960's, to 48-50 perent. Although socioeconomic factors such
as the trend toward later marriage and the higher proportion of educated women must
have contnbuted markedly to fertility decline, the use of modern contraceptives was
undoubtedly a significant factor in the decline.
1.2       The Bank and other donors supported GOI population policies and the
family Plannig program from its inception. The fast four Bank population projects
were approved in 1972, 1977, 1980 and 1985. These projects assisted the national
family planning prgram, which responded to strategies developed by GOI every five



-2 -
years as part of the national economic development plan (REPELITA). In each plan
period, the Bank, as well as the other donors supporting 001's population program,
worked closely with the National Family Planning Board (BKKBN) - the coordinating
agency - in developing their respective areas of assistance. The first Bank project in
1972 assisted in the establishment of a clinic based family planning program In six
provinces in Java and Bali. The second project, in 1977 helped extend the program to
ten additional provinces as well as establish contraceptive distribution centers in Java
and Bali during the second REPELITA (1974-79). IBRD's Third Population Project
contributed to adding the remaining provinces to the program. These first three
projects also provided the physical infrastructure and other program resources to
develop BKKBN into a strong coordinating agency for family planning services and
provided assistance to the Ministry of Health (Depkes) for family planning services.
The Fourth Population Project was designed in the mid-1980's, when the program
required a major expansion within the most densely populated provinces - Java and
Bali - where the program had been active from the beginning, but where new target
populations, such as the less educated and the small communities had to be reached.
Moreover, innovative approaches were also needed to reach newly settled
transmigration areas and extend the program to districts in Outer Islands IUI. The
Fourth Population Project was implemented by two agencies, BKKBN and the Ministry
of Population and Environment (KLH), a ministry created in 1984 to formulate policies
for both sectors.
Project Objectives and Description
1.3       f)bectives. The project was intended to further strengthen BKKBN to
pursue GOI's family planning and fertility reduction goals and assist the Ministry of
Population and Environment (KLH) in performing its policy and coordinating role. The
specific obgectives regarding BKKBN comprised completing BKKBN's decentralized
field infrastructure in the districts and Outer Islands II, improving field communications
and mobility, expanding and developing staff, strengthening EEC activities, expanding
population education through training teachers and supervisors, establishing integrated
family planning, health and nutrition services in transmigration settlement units in S
provinces and developing BKKBN's capacity to manage and coordinate research. The
specific objectives in relation to KLH included the development of a population plan of
action for Indonesia, strengthening population study centers in uriversities through
graduate overseas fellowships for faculty members, and training and providing materials
to NGOs to carry out population activities.
11 The Outer Islands II include the following provinces: Riau, Jambi, Maluku, Bengkulu, East
Kalimantan, Cental Klimantan, Central Sulawesi, Southeast Sulawasi, East Nusa Tenggara, East
Timor, and Iriat Jaya.



-3 -
1.4       Et  DescjipiQn. The project, planned to be implemented during th
five years between September, 1985 and 1990, had the following components:
(a)  Part A -BKKB:
(i) field Operations Development. In order to complete BKKBN's
infrastructure, the project included financing of construction of 84
BKKBN district offices, communication equipment, motorcycles and
bicycles and 2 person-years of technical assistance;
(ii) Staff Develoment. To expand and improve the quality of BKKBN
staff and the agency's training capacity there would be construction
of a national training center in Jakarta and purchase of equipment,
vehicles, training materials, 16.5 person-years of technical assistance
and 153.5 person-years of fellowships.
(iii) XpfbMation. Education and Communication MIEC). BKKBN's IEC
activities were to be strengthened through producing and
dissenmnating audiovisual and printed materials, and providing
training, 5 person-years of technical assistance, equipment and
vehicles for 87 mobile information units (MIUs), and IEC
equipment for the headquarters and for 27 provincial offices;
(iv) Polation Edugation. An expansion was designed through training
of school principals, supervisors and teachers, as well as out-of
school teachers, supervisors and facilitators, and the provision of
equipment, training materials, and monitoring and evaluation;
(v) Service Delivery in Transmigration Areas. This component was
intended to test approaches for offering integrated family planning,
health and nutrition services in transmigration settlement units with
about 1.8 million people (out of 3.3 million living in transmigration
areas), with BKKBN as the coordinating agency; the project
provided financing for equipment, motorcycles and bicycles,
materials, 5.8 person-years of technical assistance, training and
baseline surveys; and
(vi) Research. Strengthening BKKBN's capacity to coordinate, manage
and undertake research through provision of additional office space
(in the new Training Center), funds for studies, 6 person-years of
technical assistance and 15 person-years of overseas graduate level
Oillowships and local short-term training for 6 professional staff.



-4-
(b)  PaE B -- Ministry Of Populatin and EnvrMent (KLH
(i) Indonesia Ponulation Pjn of Actioan. Assisting KLH to develop a
long-term population plan of action for Indonesia to be used In fte
preparation of five-year development plans for the periods 1989-94
and 1994-99; the project provided 27 person-years of technical
assistance for this purpose;
(ii)- ftmlai2n %1lly QlD. Strengthening population study centers
in 10 universities through provision of 120 person-years of overseas
graduate studies and funds for population research; and
(iii) Support for Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs).
Strengthening NGOs to undertake population activities by giving
them training and mate'ials in population related subjects.
Project Design and Organization
1.5       Selection of Imolementin& Aeencies.  The selection of implementing
agencies - BKKBN and KLH - responded to organizational and program reuirements
at the time of appraisal. BXCKBN, as the coordinating agency with long experience and
substantive implementing capacity, was responsible for the largest project component,
that continued to build on the experience and accomplishments of the furst three Bank
financed projects. On the other hand, KLH, was a new ministry assigned with the
responsibility of formulating population policies, and needed both technical assistance
and capacity building to undertake its designated tasks. The project also served the
purpose of testing the appropriateness of this organizational approach to policy
development. The deviation with respect to the first three population projects, which
included Depkes as the second implernenting agency, also responded to the broadening
of Bank policy in the early 1980's in supporting health and nutrition projects through
direct assistance to Depkes. This new Bank strategy indirectly addressed another
problem confronted by earlier population projects relating to a weak sense of ownership
for Depkes components and insufficient coordination between the implementing
agencies. However, these problems of project sharing, ownership and coordination
were also challenges facing the fourth project , which, as described under
implementation and results, were not satisfactorily met.
1.6       Project Design and Comnonents. The design of Part A of the project
(BKKBN's component) was well prepared and responsive to the institutional and
sectoral needs.   The level of preparation was adequate to ensure smooth
implementation, and several components like the service delivery for transmigration
areas and IEC have been expanded and intensified through the national program and
through the Fifth Population Project. As for the KLH component, the project
preparation did not pay enough attention to institution building in the new ministry and



Its implications in terms of staffing and functions. In deciding to support KLH
strengthening, the project should have included specific safeguards regarding measures
for institution building, including organizational requirements for staff appointments and
their development, in addition to provision of technical assistance. In fact, project
preparation should have addressed a more basic premise of whether KLH was the
appropriate agency for population policy development and subsequently it should have
defined requirements for building its capacity for this role. Most of the shortcomings
of this component were a consequence of this flaw in project design.
1.7       Coordination. Inter-agency coordination has been repeatedly identified in
population and other projects as a problematic area that should be addressed at appraisal
and incorporated in project design. In this project, however, no inter-agency
coordinating mechanisms were pre-agreed. Two separate steering committees were
supposed to be established, one fcr part A and one for Part B, each respectively
presided by the BKKBN Chairman and by the Assistant Minister for Population.
However, the different level of leadership of each group precluded joint meetings.
Coordinating arrangements would have nceded to take into account the level of the. staff
representing agencies at meetings, main areas of coordination and frequency.
1.8       Design of Technical Assistance. Project design included a large amount
of technical assistance for several components, with incomplete definition of objectives,
types of consultants and expected outcomes and utilization. For instance, development
of a population plan of action to guide Indonesia's population program and policies in
the decade and beyond relied eftirely on the appointment of consultants (216 person-
months) with no mention of how this massive input of technical assistance would be
managed. Similarly, the outcomes and objectives of BKKBN's study on analysis of
fmancial resources, as well as the technical assistance allocated to improving research
in BKKBN were not clearly defined in advance.
Project Implementation
1.9       With some exceptions, the project was conducted in accordance with the
plan presented in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). The Loan became effective in
November, 1985 and closed on March 31, 1992 after one-year extension. Additionally,
in order to enable completion of studies by several fellows, the Bank authorized
continuation of reimbursements of expenditures on consultant services, local and
overseas fellowships and local training (Categories 3 and 4 of Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement) until December 31, 1992. During the first two years of the project there
were two cancellations of the Loan amount -- $8.4 million in June, 1985 and $2.5
million in April, 1987 -- because of currency devaluation and downsizing of some
buildings due to new GOI regulations. By December 31, 1992 the amended loan of



-6-
$35.1 million had been almost fully disbursed, in the amount of $ 32.5 million2l (see
Part III Table 3.3). Overall, project implementation was satisfactory.
1.10                        a  ad ComMUnizion am. Faced with the need
to increase the diffusion of knowledge about family planning to diverse and scattered
population groups, BKKBN followed recommendations of a UNFPA fuianced swdy and
designed an I1C strategy of strengthening provincial and district audiovisual
development units, replacing and increasing mobile units and using mass media in
irunovative ways. The loan financed the production of 56 one-hour television episodes
by TV stations In Jakarta, on the topic of family planning, which were completed in
March, 1988. Subsequently, in February, 1989, the production of 61 masters and
5,410 video versions was completed and finally, in March, 1989, 20 master films and
1,515 copies of 16 mm films were produced. The production of 6 master tapes and
33,000 audio copies was completed in March, 1989; they were distributed and
broadcast by local radio stations all over the country. GO purchased (and equipped
with loan proceeds) 87 vehicles for the mobile information units (MIUs) and distributed
them in the Java and Bali provinces. The impact of the IEC program was assessed by
a UNFPA financed study in 1990 which found that the program had widespread effect
on the level of individual, family and community interest and knowledge of the family
planning program.
1.11      Maowe deve           under the BKKBN Part of the project consisted of
fellowships and local training for staff, as well as training of teachers and supervisors,
for conducting population education in the school system. The project supported
overseas fellowships for graduate studies by BKKBN staff from the central level and
the provinces, to develop the next generation of technical staff and managers. Of a
total of 50 participants, 21 completed Masters degree programs in 1989 and 29
completed Masters and Ph.D.s in 1990, in the USA and Australia. The in-country
training benefited 106 participants who completed graduate studies in several
universities in Jakarta, Central Java and Bali. The total number of BKKBN staff who
underwent graduate studies - 156 national and overseas fellowships - far exceeded the
original estimate of 87 fellowships. GOI, in concurrence with the Bank, decided that
since financing was available from savings in other categories, it was important to meet
the increased needs for training among the program staff.
1.12      Regarding Population Education, training was conducted for school
supervisors, inspectors and teachers of public and private schools. This component also
supported radio programs to inform parents about population education in schools; the
project financed as well attendance of Ministry of Education staff responsible for
population education to several international, natio! al and provincial seminars and
2/ All figures rlating to disbursement are preliminary since the closing date was December 31,
1992 for two categories and disbursements are allowed for 4 additional months.



-7-
meetings. Printing and production of materials, including supplementary books for
primary and secondary schools, as well as teachers guides, were also funded.
1.13      Innovative Approaches in Transmlgration Ares. This component required
a major effort at coordination of several agencies in S provinces -Riau, Janbi,
Benkulu, South Sumatra, and 'West Kalimantan -- to provide integrated services in
health, family planning and community development activities. The project supported
the developmental activities which led to the establishment of village contraceptive
distribution centers operated by newly hired family planning field workers (financed by
GO(), in 595 transmigration resettlement units where previously only sporadic,
campaign or 'safari' type activities by BKKBN had been possible.   BKKBN was
assigned by the Ministry of Transmigration as the coordinating agency for this program
which was satisfactorily completed and currently serves as a model for extension of
services to other remote areas.
1.14      The project also financed 1,782 fellowships for a one-year midwifery
Program in several provincial nursing and midwifery schools, under a new program
established by GOI in 1990. This project activity was in addition to original training
estimates, but it was agreed upon by the Bank because it was congruent with project
objectives and with a major midwifery component in the Fifth Population Project, and
funds were available toward the last stage of the project from savings in KLH
components. BKKBN, in coordination with the Ministry of Health, granted fellowships
to selected family planning field workers to become midwives. Their training was
completed in 1992.
1.15      KLH and Population Study Center Devetopment.  In all, 93 faculty
members from population study centers obtained Masters and Ph.D. degrees in
Australia and USA in several fields including human resources, population and
environment, mobility, regional development, demography, family planning and aging.
Of 41 participants in the Australian program, 35 obtained a Masters degree, and dtee
a Ph.D. degree; only three failed to obtain any degree. Of 42 participants in the USA
progran, 34 obtained a masters degree, 6 a Ph.D degree, and two followed a non-
degree program. Some of the Ph.D. participants will complete their studies in July,
1993 under special arrangements with Florida State University (FSU).
Procumn
1.16      Construction. Land acquisition and preparation of building designs for
BKKBN offices and a national training center were completed during 1986 and 1987.
Construction of 81 (from 84 planned) district offices was completed in September 1988;
three buildings were cancelled due to difficulties in finding appropriate locations, which
made it more practical in a few cases to consolidate pairs of district offices into one.
The renovation of existing offices was completed during the period 1990-91. The
construction of the National Training Center was completed in 1989 and additional
construction to develop the International Training Center was completed in 1991. A



manual for implementation of construction in provinces and use of construction
management consultants facilitated timely completion. The quality of construction
works was very good.
1.17      Concerning equipment, most of it was procured as originally plamned.
There were, however, some changes in the type of equipment as a result of the rapidly
changing technology in computers and conmnunications. The BKKBN, in agreement
with the Bank, procured computers and modems instead of teleprinters for their
provincial offices, to complete the inter-provincial communication system. Citizen band
radio equipment planned under the project for district and sub-district level supervisors
was not procured because the particular frequency recommended by a study done on
the subject was not cleared by the Ministry of Information.
1.18      Procurement of vehicles was to be financed with GOI funds and not loan
funds due to GOI's reluctance to use International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Bicycles
and motorcycles were purchased instead with UNFPA assistance and with GOI funds.
GO's plan called for the purchase of 87 IEC mobile units and 170 minibuses for the
national and provincial training centers. GOI purchased (and equipped with loan
proceeds) the 87 vehicles for the mobile information units and distributed them in the
Java and Bali provinces. However, only 11 minibuses were purchased in 1986-87 and
distributed in Outer Islands II, but no funds were available in subsequent years from the
national budget to purchase the remaining vehicles.  This led to shortage of
transportation for the family planning program, currently being addressed by the on-
going Fifth Population Project, in which GOI has agreed to use ICB.
1.19      Part of the savings from the mentioned cancellations of procurement and
from downsizing of regional offices was applied to purchasing 26,775 doses of
NORPLANT' (a contraceptive implant) purchased directly from the single world
supplier. These arrived in Jakarta in January 1991 and were dispensed through health
centers, midwives and voluntary agencies. At project completion, 70 percent of the
doses had been inserted. An amendment to the loan agreement was approved by the
Bank in 1990 to enable this purchase. Other materials procured through this project
included 12,000 IEC kits for use by field workers in providing family planning
education and motivation to the public, and guidelines, books and materials for training
and for population education.
Project mana2ement
1.20      BKKBN's project management was effective during most of the project
implementation period, although there were some lags in good performance in 1990 due
to staff changes. A Project Coordinator was designated to monitor the implementation
of construction and software, which was conducted by the respective BKKBN
Divisions. The coordination office also prepared periodic reports for the Bank.
Additionally, provincial BKKBN Chairmen were designated as provincial coordinators



-9 -
responsible for periodic reporting of project performance, to Jakarta Headquarters. For
civil works, responding to construction delays and problems In earlier projects, BKKBN
developed a manual of procedures for preparation and evaluation of bids and for
construction implementation and reporing.   Further, construction supervision
consultants financed by the project were selected and appointed, and performed
satisfactorily.
1.21      KLH's project management was assigned to the Assistant Minister for
Population at KLH. However, due to his many other functions and responsibilities,
day-to-day project management was neglected. Toward the last two years ofthe project
period, in a variation from project design, two measures were adopted in project
management that were pivotal to adequate project completion: a project administrator
was appointed for day-to-day administrative work and for periodic reporting to the
Bank, and contractors were appointed in USA and Australia to administer recruitment,
placing and monitoring the academic work of fellows in the respective countries.
Major Project Results
1.22      QLraBLResults. The project objectives of further strengthening BKKBN
to pursue GOI's family planning and fertility reduction goals were generally achieved.
The project design was not directed towards reaching specific goals of fertility reduction
but rather to enhance the capacity of the family planning movement in achieving its
goals. Hence, no direct links can be made between fertility reduction and project
inputs. Nevertheless, the impact of the Bank's inputs, togetier with program assistance
from other donors -particularly UNFPA and USAID - and GOI financing were
essential to the expansion and increased intensity of the family planning program in
Indonesia. This conclusion is supported in an OED study J/, covering Bank assistance
to Indonesia in the last 20 years, that concluded that the Bank inputs to the program
lended support that was of great importance in legitimization of the program,
particularly in its formative years. The OED report further states that the concentration
in Bank population projects in Indonesia in provision of buildings and equipment,
represented an appropriate division of labor among donors at a time when other donors
could provide financing for program activities. This situation, however, changed in the
late 1980's as a consequence, the Fifth Population Project includes more software than
earlier projects and does not finance any civil works. Even more important than the
financial and physical inputs from the Bank, this project enabled a continued dialogue
and relationship between Bank, GOI and other donors that rendered positive benefits.
3/ Population and the World Bank: A Review of Activities and Imnacts from Eight Case Studies,
October 22, 1991, OED    Report # 10021.



- 10-
Dailed Results
1.23      BKKBN's field operations and staff development and well as IEC and
population education components were implemented nationwide.  BKKBN's af
development component led to visible improvements in the quality of staff, both at
central level and in the provinces. Further, the National Training Center in Jakarta built
through this project is being fully utilized for traiing of BKKBN staff of other agencies
in family planning, as well as for housing the research centers and the International
Family Planning Program. The latter receives trainees from various countries of Asia
and the world. (01, UNFPA, USAID as well as tuition fees, are supporting the
recurrent costs of this program.
1.24      In support to field operatiu-is, the project financed construction of the last
group of buildings needed for the program, down to the Regency level. Buildings are
being fully utilized for the intended purposes. In reference to pulation educat, the
project completed the institutionalizadon of this program in the Ministry of Education
and Culture.
1.25      The objective of substandal strengthening of BKKBN rearch capacity was
only partially achieved. During the project period, however, there were some
indicadons of prngress; indeed, the three research centers in BKKBN continued to make
progress in conducting many family planning and fertility related studies (see Part III,
Table 3.6) and several members of the research centers benefited from fellowships for
overseas graduate studies. Remaining constraints are being addressed in considerable
detail by the Fifth Population Project. In preparing this latter project, several measures
that could contribute to tangible improvements in research capacity were identified,
including: consolidating and reducing the number of several on-going projects, liniting
the number of priority topics, and strengthening management and clarifying roles of
each center. Careful use of technical assistance for institution building is also being
pursued.
1.26      KLH's Part achieved modest but perceptible gains in development of
population study centers in universities through graduate training of faculty. Regarding
institution building for population policy dvIoment, results fell short of initial
objectives, but there were several accomplishments. KLH local and foreign consultans
produced technical papers -- if not a fully consolidated plan of action - which were
used in preparation of the national 5-year plans between 1985 and 1989. Training of
NGOs in population topics was financed by GOI and took place during the first two
years of the project. And finally, overseas fellowships were administered effectively
by two contractors -- the International Development Program of Australian Universities
and Colleges Ltd. (IDP) and by Florida State University (FSU) in USA - under
arrangements made during project implementation with Bank concurrence.



- 11 -
Project Sustainability
1.27       The project supported a wide array of activities ranging from construction
and service delivery to staff development and institutional building. The sustainability
of these activities will vary by component as well as by implementing agency, given the
different nature, role and maturity of the two implementing agencies of this project.
On the one side, BKKBN stands out as the successful coordinating body that has been
responsive to the sectoral needs and its changing demands, while on the other, the role
and functions of KLH and its future development are still evolving. At project closing,
and after listing achievements and shortfalls, it is appropriate to ask how will some of
these results progress in the future and the implications of sustainability issues In
organizational roles and Bank's involvement.
1.28       One of the main project goals was the expansion of BKKBN's progam to
the provinces in the Outer Islands II and selected transnigration areas as well as the
intensification of services in Java, Bali and provinces in Outer Ilands 141. Most of
these activities were successful and are currently part of the family planning program.
According to a Bank sector report, BKKBN's budget doubled during the project period.
This increase in the family planning program budget in difficult budgetary times futher
stresses the strong government support and commiment to the program, and by
implication, to sustaining the efforts Initiated under this Bank financed project.
1.29       The project also invested in a large civil works componen for building
contraceptive warehouses and upgrading of office space for BKKBN. These investment
were undertaken at a time when the program was supporting the expansion of private
provision of family planning services through the 'Blue Circle' campaignE/. Although
the family planning program is fully supportive of the 'self-reliance' movement through
privatization and cost-recovery, the demands on the program to achieve Its goals are
still enormous. Hence, the need for government coordination and free provision for
family planning services, especially for the poor will be crucial for a substantia period
of time. As for the infrastructure evolved from this and earlier Bank population
projects, it will continue to provide the basis for international, as well as Bank fumily
planning assistance for some time to come. According to the OED report quoted in
para 1.20 the buildings constructed with Bank funds are of excellent quality; the report
further stresses that these are not inconsequential achievements, particularly for a new
program that must change social mores and acquire new clientele.
g/ Provinces in Outer Islands I include: Aceh, North Sumatra, South Sumatra, West Sumatra,
Lampung, West Kalimtan, South Kalimiantan, South Sulawasi, North Sularwasi, and West Nusa
Tenggara.
I/ Although the sector report estimates that by the end of the centy, more than 50 percent of
contraceptive services will be dispensed by private service providers; in view of the estimated
increase in prevalence to over 70 percent (compared to the current 48 percet), the neetd for
govemment coordination and services will continue.



- 12 -
1.30      BKKBN's part of the project included a population education program in
the school system, that was intended to complete developmental efforts stated by earlier
Eank supported projects. At the conclusion of the Fourth Population Project, BKKBN,
working in close cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture, finalized
curricula and supplementary text books for population education In the primary and
secondary levels; after these accomplishments, the program became an integral part of
the education system. A spin-off of the population education component is an out-of-
school youth program for educating the successive generations of Indonesians on the
problems of rapid population growth and high fertility. The youth program is being
implemented under BKKBN's coordination by its field workers and by various
community organizations and NGOs, with funding from the Bank supported Fifth
Population Project, as well as from UNFPA and GOI.
1.31      In addition to the accomplishments of individual components as indications
of the likely continuity of the initiative taken through this project, overall project
sustainability is to a large extent ensured by the high level of institutional maturity
developed by BKKBN during the 1980's, through genuine national efforts, as well as
through good utilization of assistance from the Bank and other donors. BKKBN is
further evolving from being the national coordinating agency for the family planning
program, to a wider role of promotor of private sector efforts, with the final objective
of transforming the program into a national movement in which individuals and families
would take responsibility for reproductive behavior. This evolution has implications
for the type of family planning assistance required in Indonesia from the Bank and other
donors. It has already been taken into account in the design of the Fifth Population
Project, which constitutes a broad assistance, carefully coordinated with that of other
international donors, to the overall program, thus demonstrating a high degree of
confidence in the capacity of the implementing agency. Sector loans addressing the
policy and functional changes that will be necessary to enhance the family planning
movement might be a proper progression for Bank population and family planning
assistance to Indonesia.
1.32      KLH's part of the project fell short of developing strong mechanisms for
capacity building and sustainability of KLI's policy development capacity, although the
project served a useful function of testing this new approach and demonstrated the
difficulties involved in institution building. At the closing of the project, the question
regarding tie need to develop capacity for population policy in KLH may be relevant.
The experience with population policy formulation reveals a process that is much more
complex than is implied in a decision to create and develop of a new body for this
purpose. Population policy decisions in Indonesia take place at Presidential level and
in that process, the Minister of Population and Environment, BKKBN's Chairman, as
well as other high level officials, play an important role. Increased capacity in
Indonesian universities and other organizations to undertake population and family
planning related research and studies, that could provide the appropriate background for
GOI policy decisions is an appropriate, albeit partial, solution. The population study
centers, which could contribute in this respect, remain in need of further technical



- 13 -
assistance to become fully functional research institutions in the provinces. Faulty
returning to their respective universities after completing their studies would need
support - perhaps through an arrangement with foreign institutions like "twinning"
to conduct research. Consequently, a step in the right direction would be for future
Bank higher education projects in Indonesia to complete the task initiated in this project,
by including population study center components addressing issues of research quality
and utilization. Current approaches to formulation of population policy need to be kept
under review. UNFPA is now the source of support for KLH development, their
experience will be valuable in deciding any future assistance in this area.
Bank Performance
1.33      The Bank project staff provided appropriate support and advice throughout
implementation, through supervision missions (often conducted in conjunction with
sector and preparation missions) which selectively included consultants specializing in
certain key components (e.g., IEC, training, research). On a continuing basis, Bank
staff followed up through frequent written communication, which became particularly
frequent after availability of direct electronic mail. The Bank's resident mission also
assisted in this endeavor through project monitoring and supervision. There were 12
supervision missions, and the total time spent in supervision of this project totalled
131.2 staff weeks. There was some overlapping of project supervision and sector work
during 1988/89; and this both benefited and somehow recented project review by the
Bank. On the one hand, the joint missions for supervision and sector work enriched
the level of dialogue and the government's interest in these missions; further, the
analysis done for the sector work helped to shape up some of the activities of the
project, make better use of the research component and utilize lessons learned. On the
otier hand, the drastic drop in supervision resources by the Bank limited the direct
support that could have been provided to the project. Indeed, the time devoted to
supervision dropped to less than half in comparison with the initial years (from 27.6
staff weeks (SWs) in 1986, to 11.2 and 7.5 SWs in 1989 and 1990 respectively).
1.34      Of particular importance for project success was the flexibility exerted by
Bank staff in working out alternative modalities for implementation dictated by changed
circumstances or technology. Examples of successful adoption as of new approaches
include the selection and recruitment by KLH, of contractors to administer overseas
fellowships, a change in the Loan Agreement to enable the purchase of contraceptives
when a major donor cut back its assistance, and redistribution of loan proceeds from
unused funds for technical assistance, to additional local and foreign fellowships to
develop staff capacity in BKKBN and at population study centers in universities, as well
as to train village midwives. These changes did not, however, represent any drastic
modification in project design, and kept in mind fulfillment of project objectives. The
Loan Agreement was amended as appropriate to enable the major changes, such as
purchase of contraceptives and additional training of local staff.



- 14 -
Borrower Peromance
1.35      GOI complied with all major covenants in the Loan Agreement. The only
notable exceptions in an otherwise satisfactory Borrower performance were failures to
acquire vehicles needed for BKKBN's family planning program with GOI funds, as
agreed at negotiations, and to provide counterpart staff in KLH to organize consultants'
work and administer strengthening of population study centers. The flrst omission led
to further deterioration of the transportation fleet in all provinces and hampered
supervision of field activities and training; BKKBN's vehicle complement is currently
in very poor shape, although It is expected to be restored through the Fifth Population
Project approved in 1991. The lack of technical staff in KLH impeded full utilization
of consultants and a systematic build up of the population study centers.
Lessons Learned
1.36      For future projects, the following lessons learned from the implementation
of this project could be useful:
(a)  Adeq  of Preparatory Work: Several pitfalls in project implementation
could have been avoided with additional preparatory work. Major
adjustments in project costs (from $94.4 million to $44.8 million) could
have been avoided through careful preparation of the construction and
technical assistance components. Although part of this cost reduction was
due to currency devaluation after loan approval, another part was due to
decreases in the size of buildings and in the amount of technical assistance
to make it proportionate to the agencies' absorptive capacity. Two lessons
may be derived from this experience: (i) when construction components
are part of a social sector project, they should be properly prepared,
although they may be less glamorous than software components in
addressing sector issues; indeed, buildings are often essential for the
delivery of programs and, in Bank financed projects, they represent major
items for contracts and disbursements; and (ii) technical assistance needs
to be carefully planned in accordance with the receiving agencies'
requirements.
(b)  Institution Building: Project preparation should determine precisely the
capacity of implementing agencies and design the appropriate inputs that
fit with the absorptive capacity of the organization and assess the needs in
terms of staffing and functions for further capacity building. In the case
of KLH, identification and appraisal failed to assess proper institution
building approaches, and included only an inordinate amount of technical
assistance, with little or no definition of its composition, management and
applications.



- 15 -
(c)  Complexiq of rlec )Design: When projects involve two or more
agencies -- as was the case of this project and of earlier population
projects which included BKKBN and the Ministry of Health- the design
has to take great care in inspiring a similar sense of project ownership in
anl participating agencies; also, coordinating arrangements need to take Into
account the level of the staff representing agencies at meetings, and main
areas and frequency of coordination. A possible alternative lesson learned
could be that preference should be given to agency specific projects.in
health and family planning, with appropriate complementarity, but separate
ownership. The designation of a high level coordinating committee in the
recently approved Fifth Population Project (1991), chaired by Echelon I
staff from BAPPENAS, to coordinate a BKKBN/Ministry of Health project
will test further the multi-agency project design.
(d) Inter-agency Coordination: The project design should incorporate adequate
mechanisms for inter-agency coordination at appropriate level of staff. In
this project this issue was neglected, although formal coordination between
BKKBN and KLH would have facilitated resolution of common problems,
as for instance, monitoring of overseas fellowships, which was a major
issue for both parts. While the BKKBN steering group met several times
to resolve project issues, the second group never functioned as such. Only
informal communications between BKKBN and KLH took place, with the
exception of two or three occasions in which KLH was represented at
BKKBN project meetings during Bank missions, at the request of Bank
staff.
(e)  Studies in the Prolect: When major studies are included in projects - e.g.
KLH's population plan of action, BKKBN analysis of financial resource
requirements -- Bank staff should identify consultants with strong capacity
to carry out the task and agree with the borrower on terms of reference
and needed arrangements and resources. Also, there should be an early
consensus on the role of counterparts from the national agencies and on the
utilization of the studies. Last but not least, the relevance of the studies
for the agencies and the country should be accepted and understood by the
borrower. In the case of KLH's plan of action, it became clear during
supervision that G01 did not believe it needed such a plan because there
were other means in Indonesia to ensure compliance with national
development plans; on the other hand, BKKBN's financial allocation study
was very much needed, but the study conducted fell short of providing the
needed answers. Bank supervision missions, as mentioned under (f), were
insufficiently staffed to review the ongoing work. Eventually, Bank sector
work completed this task.



- 16-
(t)  Resoumc fo -Bak Sueisi: Moderately higher use of consultants in
supervision missions during the middle years of the project could have
benefited the project, particularly in overseeing training, studies, the
innovative component in transnilgrat1on areas and research and instittion
building. An appropriate mix of expertise in Bank supervision missions
often makes a big difference in the quality of project execudon.
Project Relationships
1.37      The relationships between GOI and the Bank during Implementation of this
project were fully satisfactory, with reasonable continuity of Bank staff responsible for
project supervision. Relationships with other donor agencies working in population -
mainly UNFPA and USAID - were of a cooperative nature, thus facilitating
complementarily of assistance.
Consulting Services
1.38      Technical assistance (TA) had been estimated at $11.9 million at appraisal
(300 man-months of foreign and 545 man-months of local TA). However, these
estimates were reduced to $6.2 million after the second loan cancellation in 1987 - $
1.8 million for BKKBN and $4.4 million for KLH. Utilization of TA by BKKBN was
adequate in all service components, but less successful regarding utilization of
consultants in developing in-house research. The contributions of the local consultants
hired by BKKBN under the project were visible and generally satisfactory. BKKBN
submitted to the Bank annual reports of the consultants' work. KLI employment of
individual consultants resulted in several reports that were useful for guiding preparation
of population plans. As explained in para 23, the contracts with IDP in Australia and
FSU in USA were essential for implementing the fellowship program for population
study centers' faculty; the performance of both contractors was fully satisfactory.
Project Documentation and Data
1.39      The SAR, supervision and consultants' reports, and additional materials
contained in the project files provided adequate information for this project completion
report.  A  GOI report provided detailed quantitative information on project
implementation at the central level and in the provinces, as well as a description of the
sequence of implementation. In addition, a sector report entitled Indonesia: Family
Planning Perspectives in the 1990's (World Bank Country Study # ISBN 0-8213-1595-
1, April 25, 1990), and an OED report on Population and the World Bank: A Review
of Activities and Impacts from Eight Case Studies, October 22, 1991, OED Report #
10021, provided very helpful in-depth views of the broader context in which this project
was implemented.



- 17-
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW AND BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVES
Introduction
2.1        The present section was prepared by BKKBN, In agreement with KLH, to
summarize GOI's perspectives of the project. A team of local consultants assisted
BKKBN in developing this report that was finalized in January, 1993. In preparing for
this report, BKKBN staff met with the World Bank supervision mission in April
19926/. The Bank team provided the GOI staff with the guidelines for the project
completion report and discussed with the team the main issues and timetable for the
production of this report. The results reported in this section were provided by the GOI
team before Parts I and III were finalized, hence, it does not comment on the contents
of the two other sections of the report.
2.2       'Tis report is organized in five sections. First, a brief description of the
project is presented; second, a summary of main project results is discussed; third,
highlights of project benefits and overall performance are summarized; and finally,
assessments of the government's and the Bank's performance are presented.
Project Description
2.3        The Fourth Population Project was designed to assist the GOI in
strengthening its family planning services and carry out its population policy
development and planning. The project consisted of two parts A and B executed by
BKKBN and KLH respectively. The components and main activities for each part are
described below.
at A: Strengthening BKKBN
2.4        Field Operations Development. The objective of this component was to
increase the overall efficiency of BKKBN field operations and activities throughout the
country. The main activities to achieve the above objectives included:
fI The Bank team consisted of: Ms. Susan Stout, mission leader, Health Specialist (EA3PH) and
Ms. Fadia Saadah, Population Specialist (ASTPH); the team from BKKBMN consisted of the project
secretatiat for the Fifth Population Project including: Dr. Sumengun Sotomo, Dr. Utoko and Mr.
Bemadi.



- 18 -
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of BKKBN offices and
warehouses in 84 district offices;
(b) acquisition of equipment and vehicles by BKKBN to increase the
overall efficiency of its field operations throughout the country;
(c) acquisition of telex facilities in Jakarta and 27 provinces to enhance
communication between BKKBN headquarters in Jakarta and its provincial
offices;
(d) acquisition of 2,100 portable citizen band (CB) radios for use by
BKKBN field supervisors to strengthen the communication in the field and
to conduct a feasibility study to define the need and appropriate
specification of the CB radios;
(e) provision of 6,460 motorcycles for service delivery and program
supervision activities by fieldworkers and about 47,600 bicycles for other
family planning fieldworkers and volunteers at the village level.
2.5       Staff Development. This component was concerned with increasing the
number of qualified trainers and personnel management staff at BKKBN and with
constructing a training and researcb center. In addition, the component was designed
to support three types of activities to improve the quality of training at nationaA,
provincial, and district levels. These were: a) comprehensive assessment of BKKBNs
existing training programs and development of revised curricula and new trainng
materials, b) training of BKKBN training and personnel management staff; and c)
supervision and monitoring of BKKBN provincial and district level training centers and
activities.
2.6       Information. Education and Communication WEG). The aim to increase
the capability of BKKBN's provincial units to reproduce IEC materials in large amounts
in line with the decentralized implementaton of the IEC program: This component
included provisions for 5 man-years of local technical assistance, printing equipment,
and materials. The component was also designed to build the capacity of BKKBN's
district level offices to produce low cost, simple EEC materials designed for local
audiences through the provision of appropriate audio visual and exhibition equipment.
Moreover, to provide IEC services at the village level, the component included
provisions of funds for 87 MIUs. The IEC component also included training for
paramedics in motivation techniques at district levels as well as distrIbuting EEC kits for
health personnel. The purpose was to reach specific groups of non-acceptors and to
intensify its IEC activities through the health system, using health center paramedical
personnel.



- 19-
2.7        Population Education. This Project component included utining 8,000
school education supervisors at provincial, district and sub-district levels; 7,000
principals of public and private schools, orientation of 85,000 supervisors, tutors and
facilitator in the out-of-school learning center. In addition, the project included finds
for introducing population education in 10 IKIPs and 21 university faculty teachers
education (FKIPs) throughout the country and for training approximately 800 teacher
educators; provision of funds production of supplementary books, instructor's
handbooks, training manuals, teaching kits, other visuals aids, library boob; and
carrying out monitoring and evaluation activities.
2.8        Services Delivery in Transmigratien  reams.  The objective of this
component was to ensure that family planning services were provided to the
transmigrants and to improve active participation of eligible couples in family planning
by improving their motivation to use effective contraceptive methods. Ihe main
activities to achieve the above objectives were:
(a) establishments of village contraceptive distribution centers (VCDCs) in
transmigration resettlement units (UPTs) in the provinces of Riau, Jainbi,
Bengkulu, South Sumatra, and West Kalimantan;
(b) carrying out local baseline surveys to collect data on health, family
planning and nutrition status in UPTs;
(c) training of family planning/health center staff, family planning field-
workers, village volunteers and community leaders in integrated service
delivery for the UPTs; and
(d) acquisition of materials and supplies for family planning fieldworkers,
operational manuals, IEC materials and uniforms, 600 bicycles for fainily
planning fieldworkers and about 90 motorcycles for BKKBN sub-district-
level supervisors, nutrition program inputs including weighing scales,
home economics demonstration class materials and feeding supplements for
children under five years old.
2.9       Research. This component for BKKBN included provision of funds for
financing individual research projects, local and overseas training for the professional
staff, local and foreign technical assistance services, and appropriate office facilities.
The individual research included reviews and studies, technical assistance consisted of
254 man-month of foreign and 48 man-month of local technical assistance services; and
training included 6 short-term local and 9 graduate-level overseas training fellowships.
2.10       Part B : KLH Capacity. The component was designed to assist KLII in
formulating population policy for the five-year development plans for the country. To



-20 -
achieve this general objective, provisions for technical assistance, development of
population study centers and support for non-government organizations were identified
as essentials. In particular, the KLH capacity building component included:
(a) provision of technical assistance for the development of a population
plan of action for Indonesia to be used in the preparation of the
Indonesian's five-year development plans for 1989-94 and 1994-1999;
(b) overseas graduate-level training of about 80 university graduates in
population and related subjects;
(c) support to Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) including training
in population-related subjects for members of NGOs and provision of
related training materials, and strengthening of NGOs capabilities to carry
out population activities.
Project Results
Part A: Strengthening BKKBN
Field Operations Development
2.11      Construction and Equipping of Offices and Warehouses. Construction of
BKKBN's offices and warehouses started in the FY 1986. Acquisition of land and
preparation of civil works were completed in 1986 and 1987. The construction of
offices and warelhouses, provision of equipment and furniture in 81 districts were
completed in 1988. The construction of four offices and warehouses in central
Kalimantan was canceled because of difficulties in reaching the locations. An additional
district office and warehouse was constructed in Batam Island since it was considered
as an industrial development area. BKKBN also proposed office renovations in 8 cities.
The offices renovation were completed in 1990/91. An evaluation of offices and
warehouses utilization was conducted in 1992. The respondents were heads of BKKBN
offices in 81 districts where construction took place (response rate was 75%). Of the
total respondents, 91.2 percent reported that the offices are useful for supporting field
operation at the districts level. The offices maintenance are available from routine
budget (88.6%), development budget (9.8%) and other sources. Concerning the
warehouses, 80.3 percent of the total respondents reported that they are being used for
storing family planning equipment. The maintenance of the warehouses is provided
through routine budget.



-21 -
2.12      Acquisition of Telex Facilities. BKKBN substituted the procurement of
teleprinter with computer and modems, because the accessibility of electronic
communication through computers using both radio waves and telephones lines. As a
part of this system, procurement of 27 computers was completed in 1989. BKKBN
distributed the computers to 22 provincial offices and 5 municipalities in Jakarta.
2.13      Citizen Band Radio Communications.  A feasibility study to obtain
information on the need for citizen band radio (CB) communication for district and sub-
distict level field supervisors was completed in 1986. The results recommended that
BKKBN procure CB radios with particular frequency. However, the procurement
depended upon the operational permits from the Ministry of Information. During the
project period the permission to use the required frequency was not granted. Hence,
the procurement of the radios was canceled.
2.14      Acauision of Vehicles. Since international competitive bidding (ICB)
producers could not be used to procure the vehicles, this Item was to be financed by
GOI. However, due to lack of funds, the procurement of motorcycles and bicycles was
canceled and only part of the vehicles were procured with UNFPA funds.
2.15      Contcpives  ; KKBN requested use of project funds for purchasing
NORPLANT Contraceptives. The Bank agreed with the request and provided the funds
for procurement of 26,775 NORPLANT that were completed in 1991.
&af Develqment.
2.16      Construction of National Training (NTC) and Research Centers (RC). 'Te
construction of the national training center and the resrach centers was completed by
1989. In addition, the plans for the training center were expanded to include an
international training center and the additional work was completed in 1991. The
objective of this intemational training center was to provide training for staff from other
countries in the area of family planning using the Indonesian experience.
2.17      Assessment of BKKBN Trainine Program. An assessment of BKKBN's
training program was conducted using USAID funds. BKKBN also completed
graduate-level overseas training and in-country graduate level training for BKKBN
trainers and management staff. A total of 50 participants completed their studies in
various subjects including sociology, demography, public administration, public health,
statistics, population, and family planning. In addition, a total of 106 participants
completed S2 or SI degrees. The component also support training in statistics and
demography for provincial BKKBN staff that was conducted in Jakarta (total of 230
participants).



-22 -
2.18      Midwives Training. In line of the family planning strategy, the project
also provided midwives training for 907 family planng feiedworkers (PLXBs) from
10provirws. The purposes of the training was to increase the capability of PLKBs in
providing integrated family planning and matemal and child health services. A total of
875 persoi1 completed their training by December 1992 and were deployed in several
villages. The experience with this sub-component pointed to a gap between the
midwives assignment in the villages and their training curriculum, especially in practical
training. In addition, the new graduates complained of lack of transportation facilities
in the villages and lack of medical kit for provision of health services.
2.19      Supervision and Monitoring, The supervision and monitoring activities
were conducted by the BKKBN's Deputies, Chiefs of and staff to improve the
operational capability of the provincial training centers.
2.20      Aquisition of Minibuses. The provision of 170 minibuses for national,
provincial and district training centers was not all completed. BKKBN procured only
11 minibuses during FY 1986/87 and distributed then to the Outer Island II, under local
shopping procedures. A number of 159 minibuses could not be purchased under this
project due to lack of GOI financing.
2.21      Acquisition of Training Materiall. The provision of training materials for
Jakarta Training Center and Provincial Training Centers was canceled under this project
since the required training materials were provided through other sources.
2.22      Acquisition of Technical Assistance, Concerning the technical assistance,
BKKBN revised the need for foreign consultants under the project in the training field
from 123 to 24 man-months because USAID provided the foreign consultants. One
foreign consultant was hired for a period of 12 months and 3 local consultants were
hired for a total duration of 30 months.
Information. Education and Communication (MC)
2.23      Acquisition of Printing Equipment and Supolies. The completion of IEC
activities was consistent with the plans. Procurement of printing equipment, audiovisual
development units and supplies for 27 provinces were completed during March, 1990.
The provision of printing equipments and supplies such as guidelines, books, manuals,
modules, poster leaflets was mostly completed between 1987 and 1990.
2.24      AcQUisition Audiovisual and Exhibition Equipment. The procurement of
audiovisual equipment for districts and municipalities was delayed in the bidding
process and evaluation because of changes in Government regulations.  The
procurement was completed in March, 1989. The equipment included photo cameras,
film projectors, tape recorders, and overhead projectors which were distributed to 300



- 23 -
districts and municipalities. Of the 61 heads of BKKBN's districts, 67.8 percnt had
used the equipment. Those who did not use the equipment reported that were due to
the problems of electricity (26.1%), lack of accessories (21.7%), damage (8.7%), and
other reasons. Maintenances costs for these equipment are provided through the
development budget (98.4%).
2.25      AcquisItion of Mobil lInformation Units (MIUs). The procuremet of
Mobile Information Units was completed in 1989 and their equipment was in place by
1990. Vehicles were finance by the GOI funding and the equipment for the MIUs were
financed by the Bank. The MIUs were fully equipped and distributed to Java and Bali
provinces. Most of the heads of BKKBN's districts reported that the MIUs were useful
for supporting IEC activities.
2.26      Acquisition of JEC Kits, The procurement of 12,000 teaching kits was
completed in 1987 and 1989 and were distributed to the districts. Of 61 head of
BKKBN's district offices, 90 percent reported that IEC kits supported the operational
program activities.
2.27      TV Series. Audio. Video, and Films. The production of 56 one-hour TV
episodes for family planning was completed in 1988 by several local television stations
in Jakarta. They were also broadcasted by provincial TV stations and viewed by the
public for 2 years. The production of 6 masters and 33,000 audio copies was
completed in 1989. They were distributed to districts and broadcasted by local public
radio stations. The production of 61 masters and 5,410 video copies, 20 audio masters
and 1,515 copies of 16 mm films were completed in 1989. The procurement of these
IEC materials was processed through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures.
E=PlaEion Education,
2.28      TrMining School Principals and Supervisors. During the project period, the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) conducted various tranibng including
activities for MOEC staff, provincial staff, school supervisors, school inspectors, and
teachers of the public and private schools. The main results of this component are
summarized below.
(a)  MOEC Staff Training: The training was conducted in Jakarta in two
batches. The purpose of the training was to increase knowledge and
awareness, and to provide better understanding of participants on the
population and environment education. The first training was attended by
53 participants, and the second training was attended by 54 participants
representing all units of the MOEC.



-24 -
(b)  Provincial StffTraining The training for supervisors of Junior Secondary
Schools and Senior Seconday Schools was conducted in 4 batches. The
number of participants in the successive training sessions was 92, 46, 97,
and 43 participants respectively. The raining produced population
education curricula, supervision instruments, completion of -the provincial
population education implementation units (UPPK) job analysis, and
management of UPPK, and UPPK reports.
(c)  Spervisor Training: The training for supervisors of Junior Secondary
Schools and Senior Secondary Schools were conducted in 4 batches. The
number of participants in the successive training sessions were 92, 46, 97,
and 43 participants respectively. The ( utcome of the training was similar
to that of the provincial staff training (no. (b)).
(d) Inspector Training: Training was conducted in 4 batches. The purposes
of the training were to provide participants with an understanding of
government policy, strategy, and operational activities of population and
environment education; to learn its subject, methodology, and operational
activities; and to develop integrated teaching models and supervision and
monitoring instuments. The participants consisted of inspectors of Pre-
Schools and Primary Schools, principals and teachers of Primary Schools
in the country. The first training was attended by 350 participants, the
second by 475 participants, the third by 200 participants, and the fourth
by 285 participants. The participants also developed integrated teaching
models for elementary school education, and problems for pre and post
test on population and environment education.
(e)  Teacher Training: The training for teacher of Junior Secondary Schools
and Senior Secondary Schools was conducted in S batches between 1987
and 1990. The purpose of the training was to develop skills in population
and environment education to the participants, so that they could train
teachers at schools. The first training session was attended by 2,800
participants, the second by 2,000 participants, the third by 1,029
participants, the last two by 1,600 participants. The training also provided
training modules that consisted of guide books for population and
enviromnent education, and they could learn the subject and method of
population and environment education.
(f)  Self Traini: In addition to the above training activities, self training-
methods were used to transfer skills and knowledge to teachers of primary
schools, junior secondary schools, and senior secondary schools in the
provinces that were not included in the formal training. Written materials
from the MOEC were sent to the coordinators in the provinces and



- 25 -
distributed to the paticipants. These included basic concept of population
program, relationships among population Increase and economy,
environment, social, cultural, and its methodology for conducting
population education. 800 paicipants completed the training during 1987,
consisting of 312 primary School's teachers, 181 Junior School's teachers,
and 180 Senior Secondary School's teachers. The "out of school" training
activities were also conducted through radio broadcasting, seminar,
coordinating meeting, and writing competitions.
(g)  Radio Broadcasting: The purpose of this activity was to disseminate
information on population education and to provide better understanding,
awareness, knowledge, and attitude of the public economy, politics and
welfare. The target was the general public, with special focus on the
youth.
(h)  Seminars and Meetings: Various national and international seminar and
meetings had been attended by the MOEC staff who were responsible for
conducting population education activities in the country.
2.29      Printing and Distribution of Materials.  Printing and production of
Population Education and Environment books and supplementary books for primary
schools and secondary schools were completed within 5 years. A total number of
211,080 books for primary schools, 96,540 for junior secondary schools, and 86,880
books for senior secondary schools were completed and distributed to 11 provinces.
A total of 395,000 supplements for primary schools, 160,000 supplements for junior
secondary schools, and 148,200 supplements for senior secondary schools were
completed and distributed to 11 provinces. In addition, 507,200 guides books were also
distributed to the provinces.
2.30      Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation activities were
completed by the project component staff in accordance with the workplan issued by
the MOEC's letter of decree. These included monitoring of the training activities in
schools and out of school education in the provinces and districts.
Services Delivery in Transmigration Areas.
2.31      Establishments of VCDCs in UPTs. The village contraceptive distribution
units (VCDCs) were established in 595 UPTs. The activities in these units included
staff recruitment, initial training in family planning, and refresher training in integrated
family planning and health services. Some 595 PLKBs were recruited from 5 provinces
in 1985.  They were trained at the Provincial Training Center in the field of
management for UPTs and equipped with motorcycles for PLKBs and bicycles for
PPLKBs. During the period of FY 1987/88, the activities for this component focused



- 26 -
on prep&ration and institutionalization of UPTs. These included training of trainers for
PPKBDs, clinical staff, paranedics, and PPKBDs. Te training of trainers was
attended by 316 participants representing the office of district level from BKKBN,
health center and Department of Transmigration district and sub-district staff. The
reporting and recording training was attnded by 168 clinic staff from 5 tansrigaion
areas. The participants of the PPKBD training were UPT leaders and family planing
motivators, representing 10 participants per UPTs.
2.32       Baseline Survey on Family Plannin, and Health.  The survey was
conducted to collect baseline data on family planning, nutrition status in UPTs, and
income generating activities. In addition, analysis of the survey results and review
meetings to discuss this implication were conducted.
2.33       Traning Staff. Fieldworrs. and Cmmunt Leaders   The activities in
this sub-component included training for fieldworkers in integrated family planning and
health, formation of income generating groups, formulation of refresher course training
curriculum for integrated program, training for integrated progran, trial of the
recording and reporting system in 10 UPTs in five provinces and evaluation of the
transmigration program. The evaluation of family planning services in transmigration
areas was conducted in FY 1990/91. The results indicated hat an intersectoral
approach moved better in program implementation; while family planning services had
high coverage, the use of capital and equipment for income generating activities was
not effective. Several other problems were identified including poor reporting system,
low participation due to limited guidance, unequal ratio of worker to size of UPT,
Insufficient guidance, and insufficient female workers in the services for inserting IUDs.
2.34       Acauisition of materials. supp)ies and vehicl. The component provided
taining materials for family planning workers, IEC equipment and materials, as well
as nutritional and progran inputs for integrated service delivery program. As for
vehicles that were originally planned for this component, the procurement of 600
bicycles and 90 motorcycles was canceled.
Reseac
2.35       Operation of Research Centers, During the project period, the three
research centers within BKKBN completed several reviews and research projects. The
Center for Family Planning Policy Development completed reviews on incentive
systems in family planning program; the integration of family planning progrm into
other sectors, family planning services for fisherman, review of the logistic systems in
the field, and development of activities to increase age at marriage. The Center for
Family Planning Studies completed 4 studies including those on evaluation of family
planning service delivery in the urban areas, prevalence rate and the influencing factors,



-27-
the continuation rate and its determinants, and population dynamic and contraceptive
prevalence rates. The Biomedical and Human Reproduction Research Center completed
several research including the effect of IUD on serum ferritin, the effect of non-steroid
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAI!) at the beginning of menstruation on the use of IUDs,
the health status of pill acceptors, effect of steroid contraceptives on metabolism,
effectiveness of various personnel inserting IUDs, long term effect of contraceptive use
on reproductive organs and a study on safety and efficiency of progesterone
contraceptives.
2.36       Staff Training., BKKBN provided overseas graduate-level training for 9
professional staff from the Research Centers in FY 1989/90 at several universities in
USA. In addition, 4 persons received overseas short-training for a period of 6 weeks.
BKKBN also recruited 3 foreign consultants and 4 local consultants for helping the
implementation of the research program for the 3 research centers.
Part B : KLH Capacity.
2.37       Delopment of Population Plan of Action. KLH with the assistance of
foreign and local experts developed a Population Plan of Action (PPA) which was used
for the preparation of the REPELITA IV and V. The PPA covered ten points the
nationwide organizational framework for population planning, legal framework for
population related matters; improvement of the quality of the population data collection;
strengthening the capability of national and regional population centers; establishment
of population research program; identification of a research agenda; provision of
population models related to environment, social, economic determination and
consequences; description of population policy and programs; implementation and
monitoring these policy and programs; and education of general public about the
population and its importance to the country. In addition, international workshops were
conducted to provide more information and inputs for develophig the PPA. The first
was the 'Workshop on Integration of Population, Development, and Environment in the
Context of Sustainable Development". The objective was to provide substantive
assistance in developing appropriate conceptual frameworks for relating population,
development and environment factors in the context of sustainable development. TMe
workshop was held from June 29-30, 1990 in Lausanne, Switzerland, and a follow up
was conducted in Jakarta In August 1990. The participants were the KLH staff,
domestic and foreign consultants for KLH, and appointed experts. The second was
"Workshop on the Population Quality and Quality of Life". The objectives were to
bring together a suitable range of expertise from the USA as a basis for reviewing
existing knowledge and experience, and to provide a forum for the furither exploration
of appropriate conceptual frameworks and suitable measures for addressing the range
of issues inherent in strategic planning for population quality and quality of life. The
workshop was carried out from October 3-5, 1990 at the University of Michigan in Ann
Arbor.



- 28 -
2.38      Graduate-level Traing. Graduate-level training and overseas training was
implemented at several universities in Indonesia, Australia, and USA.
(a)  Domestic Training A total of 60 participants from various universities,
and institutes were admitted for master degree program in the field of
population program at the Program Study for Population and Manpower,
Post graduate program, University of Indonesia, Jakarta and Center for
Population, University of Gajah Mada, Yogyakarta. The first group was
finished in August 1992, and the second group will be done in September
1993.
(b) Overseas training: A number of 93 participants from various universities
and institutes were admitted for master degree and doctoral degree
programs at the Australian Universities and American Universities. Ihey
have been in the field of human resources and population environment,
population mobility, organization, and regional development, demography
of the family planning and aging. inplementation of the study program
in Australia was carried out through the International Development
Program of Australian Universities and Colleges Ltd. (IDP). Of the 38
participants, 35 received master degrees, 3 received Ph.D degrees, and 3
dropped out. The completion date will be February 1993. Implementation
of the study program in the USA was conducted by the Florida State
University. Of the 42 participants, 34 obtained master degrees, 6 obtained
Ph.Ds, and 2 enrolled in non-degree program at the Florida State
University. Tbe last completion date of the Ph.D participans will be July
1993.
2.39      Supirpt  o rNGQs  The main activities of this component were training
courses for NGOs in the field of management and population. A total of 195
participants from various NGOs had completed the management and population training
courses in 1986-89. Another batch of 105 participants completed their training in 1990,
and 25 more participants completed in 1991.
Project Benefits and Performance
2.40      The physical targets of the project were generally achieved. A total of 87
percent for the planned activities and 82.7 percent of performance indicators were
completed. Hence, the objectives of the project to strengthen BKKBN and assist KLH
were completed.
2.41      Proiect Benefits. The project has provided significant benefits including:



-29 -
(a)  Strengthening BKKBN organization and management at the central,
provincial and district offices. The central BKKBN office provided
graduate overseas training and In-country training for the Deputy's staff
and Research Centers personnel. Some of the BKKBN's staff have been
trained in the field of management, demography, statistics public
administration, family planning and population. As a result, BKKBN has
more qualified staff at various bureaus and centers. The international
training center has provided regular international and national training in
family planning. Many coutries from Asia, Africa, and Middle East have
visited and participated in the training program developed by the
International Training Program. The district and provincial participants
have also visited and participated in the training developed by the center.
At the province and district levels, BKKBN has permanent offices and
warehouses which support the family planning program implementation for
the local community. In addition, BKKBN offices at the provincial and
district levels are better equipped for providing IEC for family planning
services. They could produce IEC materials in accordance with local
needs, since they have their own equipment and local materials.
(b)  BKKBN and KLH have successfully expanded the family planning
program through the educational system in the country. KLH, at the
headquarters, provinces, and districts has strongly committed itself to
conducting population education and environment program. Most of the
decision makers of the KLH at the central, province, and district offices
have been trained in population educational. The schools principals,
supervisors, inspectors, and school teachers have also been trained in
population education. In addition, books, guides, posters, leaflets and
other IEC materials were produced and distributed to the schools in the
country. Out of school population education was developed and expanded
to all provinces.
(c)  BKKBN  in collaboration with the Ministry of transmigration has
established UPTs and VCDCs in the transmigration areas which were
neglected at the previous years. A model for integrated family planning
and health services in the transmigration areas has been developed and
implemented in 5 provinces. Further development and application of the
services model were applied in the otier provinces.
(d)  The capacity of KLH has improved as reflected by the increase in the
number of government organizations in the provinces and districts were
committed to population and environment problems. More professional
staff at the central office and provinces have been trained in various
subjects of population and environment. These included demography,



- 30 -
public administration, population mobility, regional development, statistics,
public health, family planning, human resources and population
development. The population plan of action was developed and used for
the national guidance in the population development In REPELIA IV and
V. The capability of the Population Study Centers at Universities in the
provinces was improved, since they have professional staff who were
traid in various subjects of population and environment. They have
conducted various training and studies which support the population and
environmental program. Moreover, KLH has provided training for non-
governmental otganizations, so they could actively involve in the
population and environment. A network of communication among the
government organization, private organization including non government
organization in population and environment have been available throughout
the country.
(e)  The project indirectly contributed to increasing family planning acceptance
and reducing fertility by improving the effectiveness of the family planning
program organization and management. Construction of district offices,
warehouses, training center, and research center, provision better staff
capability, acquisition of IEC equipment and materials, provision of
transportation for supervisor and fleldworkers would improve the
organization and management capability of the family planning program.
Furthermore, these would also improve field operation, which results in
increasing the coverage and improving the quality of family planning and
health services delivery. Since the project was considered only one of the
many factors affecting and contributing to the reduction of fertility, it is
impossible to measure the impact of the project in terms of fertility
reduction.
2.42      Proiect Performance.  The project performance has been generally
satisfactory because most activities and project performance indicators were completed.
Some activities were canceled because of several reasons. These included a lack of
permission for the provision of citizen radio band communications, which was canceled.
The provision of telex facilities was canceled because of adjustment to the existing
electronic communications network supported by the USAID. The acquisition of
vehicles such as minibuses for training centers, motorcycles and bicycles for
fieldworkers were canceled because of difficulties in providing GOI budget. Provision
of training materials for training centers was canceled because of other budget
contribution. The provision of technical adjustment of the project needs. Moreover,
a total loan amount was amended from US$46 million to US$ 35 million as of July
1987, partly because of the government financial devaluation. Most of project
performance indicators were achieved, except those activities were canceled. Several
indicators were not totally completed. These included the construction of offices and



-31 -
warehouses because of difficulties in reaching the 4 districts locations. Short-term
training by BKKBN was lower than the targets; this might be due to inaccuracy of
planning data and poor recording and reporting. Similar trends were also found in the
other components such as provision of technical assistance, provision of JEC materials
such as books, leaflet, and posters.
Bank's Performance
2.43      The Bank's assistance to the project provided support to BKKBN in
strengthening the family planning program and to KLH in carrying out the population
policy development and planning. The project provided significant benefits in
strengthening the organization and management of family planning services at the
central, provincial, and district levels. In addition, the population strategy has been
widely applied in the national development plans. The project formulation, in this
context, is considered appropriate and justified according to the national development
policy RPEL1TA IV and V.
2.44      The project implementation witnessed constructive discussions and dialogue
between Bank staff and BKKBN which provided several benefits for the agency.
Project Implementation was monitored regularly by the Bank, drawing attention to
potential difficulties and eliciting appropriate action from government agencies such as
KLH and MOEC. Moreover, the importance of adequate budgetary allocations which
remained the significant problem throughout the project was stressed by Bank missions
during supervision.
2.45      The Bank's supervision efforts were relatively adequate. A total of 141/
missions were carried out during a seven years of project implementation. The number
of participants in these mission varied from 2 to 6, including Bank consultants. The
missions involved too many persons, however, the participants were technically strong
and there was good staff continuity between missions. Several aide-memiores were not
completed on time that delayed follow-up action. Suggestions made by the bank during
supervision missions resulted in better rnrovision of local budget for project
implementation.
Government's Performance
2/ The total number of missions includes 12 supervision missions and 2 missions that
tool place between board presentation and effectiveness.



-32 -
2.46      The main government's institutions involved in the project planning and
Implementation were BAPPENAS, Ministry of Finance (MOF), and BKKBNJ/.
BAPPENAS reviewed BKKBN's annual project plans and provided approval for
government's budget allocations and counterparts from the development budget (DIPs).
The Directorate General for Budget Administration (DGBA), MOF, reviewed the
annual budget plans and its counterparts and provided approvals. Followigi the
approval of the budget, BKKBN completed project activities. The discussions on
budget between BKKBN, BAPPENAS and MOP were carried out without any problems
and were completed by March of each year. BKKBN completed most of its planned
activities (87%). Annual disbursement accounts were processed by MOF. The delay
in the disbursement was mainly due to incomplete statements of expenditures submitted
to the DGBA. The reported delay in disbursement at the closing date of the loan is 8.2
percent given the partial extension till December 1992. In conclusion, the government's
performance was satisfactory.
U/ 001's report did not report on KLH's performance in this section.



- 33 -
PART m
Project Profile at Completion
3.1       Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose            Year of       Status
Approval
Population
Population I     To a) assist GO in the       March,    Completed
Cr. 300-IND      establishment of clinic based  1972       September,
family planning program in 6             1981
provinces of Java and Bali;
b) strengthen BKKBN's
coordination capacity; and c)
improve family planning
information and motivation
services.
Population II    To a) extend family planing   June,       Completed
Ln. 1472-IND     program to ten additional     1977        March,
provinces in Outer Island I; b)          1984
establish contraceptive
distribution centers in Java and
Bali; and c) expand and
strengthen population education
and motivation activities.
Population III   To a) expand family planning  June,       Completed
Ln. 1869-IND     program to the remaining      1980        September,
provinces; b) assist GOI                 1984
decentralize management of
family planning programn; and c)
strengthen maternal and child
health services.
Population V     To a) expand family planning  April,      Ongoing
Ln. 3298-IND     service delivery to hard-to-reach   1991
population groups; b) enhance
acceptance of long-acting
contraceptives; c) support
BKKBN's IEC, staff
development, research and MIS
activities; d) promote safe
motherhood through training and
deployment of village midwives
safe motherhood IEC campaigns.



-34 -
3.1        Related Bank Loans (cont'd)
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose             Year of      Status
Approval
Health A
Nutrition
To enhance GOI capacity to    March,    Completed
First Nutrition  formulate and execute nutrition  1977     March,
Development      programs, operatiorns, research,          1982
Project          manpower training, monitoring
Cr. 1373-IND     and evaluation by strengthening
and expanding the existing
nucleus of personnel institution.
Provincial Health   To improve effectiveness of  February,  Completed
Ln. 2235-IND     health care services; reduce   1983       September
incidence of malaria in 3                 , 1989
provinces; improve quality and
4dlization of health services
through improvements in health
ctnters, referral and outreach
systems and manpower
development.
Second Health    To a) help expand the output and   April,  Ongoing
(Manpower        improve the quality of Depkes  1985
Development)     paramdecial manpower; and b) to
Ln. 2636-IND     help expand the capacity and
improve the quality of Depkes in-
service education and training.
Second           Increase the effectiveness and  November  Completed
Conununity       efficiency of GOI's nutrition and   , 1985  June, 1992
Health &         community health programs
Nutrition        through a) strengthening
Ln. 2636-IND     coordination and management of
community health programs; b)
further development of nutritional
surveillance; and c)strengthening
nutrition manpower development.
Third Health     To assist GOI improve the      June, 1989  Ongoing
project          delivery of health services and
Ln. 3042-IND     raise health status in 2 provinces
through better and more
decentralized health sector
planning, budgeting and
management.



- 35 -
3.1       Related Bank Loans (cont'd)
LoanlCredit Title            Purpose             Year of     Status
Approval
Third Conmnunity   To a) eance programs for child  December, Approved
Health & Nutrition   survival, safe motherhood and  1992    by Board
Project           nutrition in 5 provinces; b) build
Ln. 3550-IND      provincial capacity to plan,
monitor and evaluate health
plans; and c) strengtien central
Depkes to provide technical
support to the province.



- 36 -
3.2        Project Timetable
Item                 Date Planned     Date Revised      Date Actual
Identification
(Executive Project                                   March 20, 1984
Sumnuny)
Preparation        March/April,                      March/April,
1984                              1984
Appraisal Mission   July, 1984                       August 27-
September 14,
1984
Loan Negotiations   February, 1985                   Marcd 25-29,
1985
Board Approval     April, 1985                       May 7, 1985
Loan Signature    July, 1985                         July 18, 1985
Loan Effectiveness   November 1,                     November 1, 1985
1985
Loan Closing       March 31, 1991    March 31, 1992   March 31, 1992
Project Completion   December 31,   December 31,    December 31,
1991             1992             1992



.37-
3.3       Loae  Disbursements
Cumulafive Es*mated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ mllion)
l' ~ ~ ~  ~   ____      ____ -  _____ - -   -____     -  =   -   *
FY            1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Appraisal Estimate      .      1.5    8.2    21.1   38.5   46.0              -
Revised at                    0.7    2.4    13.7   25.4 .  33.0   35.1
-.             -       -        -                  S
Actual bL               -     0.7    2.4    13.7   24.5   29.8   31.8   32.5
TL Ihe Loan was revised twice on July 9, 1987 and April 16, 1987 whereby the tota
Loan amount was reduced by US$ 10.9 million.
bf Ihe figures for 1992 are preliminary and include crude estimates of project
disbursement during the 4 months grace period.
Figure 3.1  Cumulative Estimated, Revised and Actual Disbursements
(Million US$)
so~~~~~~~r
.1 2.34 1 2 3 4 4 2 3,4 1 2 3 41 2 34 1 2 3 4 1 2 34
I 1986 1 1987.   1988            .99  *-1990 I I 99  I 1992 ,
Quarter /Year:
-ppraisal        Revisecl   Actual



3.4           Project Implementation
Component                                               Apprasl M(an                                          Actul (PC)ti
PART A: BKKBN
1. Field Operations Deveopwme     1. Constion and equipping offices ad warouses in 84          1. Consrton was complekd in St dists and addiof ice
discs and in Jakaa                                          renovation was underta  in a ckis.
2. Acquisition of telx facilies for 27 prones ad akarta.    2. The proc_rm    of telex machines was cancled and replaced
with 27 computs for 22 provinces and S fr Jakart.
3. Fasibility Study for CB radios and provision of 21.000 radios.    3. Feasibility study was omptd and results favored the use of
Citze Rn radios with specifi frqun. 001 epoa of the
requitd frequeacy could n  be obtaied in ti40 ad subsequently
the procurment was canelted.
4. Procurent of 6,460 motorcycles and 47,600 bicycles.      4. The procuremen was canceled.
S. Th component also procrd 26,775 uis of NORPLANT
________________    ____________________________ contraceptivstat weore oinitillyplannedfor theproect.
2. Saff Development               1. Construction and equipping training and rsearch cater with a  1. ContrctIon of the ftriing and r_esah  wa complted
totl area of 9,600 in.                                      and oxpanW to includo the intratona    ingenter with a
total area of 33,490 ms.
2. Assessmet of the training progam and curriculum materiels.  2. The assmet   was ompletd but wit USAID s e.
3. Graduate leve trainig for 46 parcips for in-country      3. The planned 41 ovseas fedlowsbips wre completetd   d the
fellowsips ad for 41 particpat for oversas fellwships       in-oury fllowships waer Increased to a totl of 106
fellowshps
4. Supervision sad monoring for tining ceners in 27 provinc.   4. Resources wae utled for supavison of monitoring in tho 27
provinces.
S. Procurement of 170 minibuses.                            5. Only 11 minbuses we  pronred.
6. Provision of training materWis for training ceanrs in Ja  and   6. Canceled from the project sinco resources from anoher souc
provinces.                                                  wa  used. 
7. 123 man-months of thnicld aisnce wre planned at          7. Only 12 ma-months of tehniea assiaancewr used o
.________________________   appraisal and later revised to a total of 24 man-months.           ._                                          .



3. lnlormatio,  Edcaton, and      1. Proc¢rment of printing ep bme for media developme unks    1. The proueme  was completd and coned of:
Canuusuicatlou (IE(~             for 21 province and adio vsa and ehibition quipm    for                    1,200 AVA waits for dis    offices
distict offces.                                                           297 AVA sets for povinc
427.923 guidebooks
1SAM4OOMD"
10.800 leaets
W99000 cards
In addition, 20 mtn-months of local technical as_ace Wm
providod.
2. Procureme  of 87 MlUs to improvo JEC aaivis at the village   2. The 87 MWs wem procred and distributed to de fidd.
level.
3. Procurement of 12,000 IEC kIts for famiy planning workers  3. The IEC kits wa  procrd and distibuted to the dislrkt
and health center staff.                                   ofrfies.
4. Production of 56 TV series; 6 audio masers and 33.000 copies;   4. A total of: 56 TV seies. 6 audio mears, 33.000 audio Oopies.
20 fidms (16 mm) and 1.515 copies.                         20 films and 1,515 rlm copies ware procured ad employed in the
__________________________ JEC campaig.
4. Population Educadon            1. Training of:                                            1. The completd aining acvities in these cagories wre.
a. 15,000 school supevso  at provinci, 4istrict            a. A total of 14,847 participants form sehool
and sub-district levels and principals of public and       supevo  and principals
privat schools;
b. 85.000 superviso, tutors, aclitator of out of           b. A total of 36.35S particis form
schools Rtining; and                                       spervisors, tutors and faciiaor. and
c. 830 patcians from teacher tring intit.                  c. A ttal of 860 partipns received tasing
Estimated nuamber of participants at  prais= 10            from tacher trig  insties.
KPs, 20 FKIPs and 800 pariipan.
2. Prtin and distribuion of training matetIls              2. The printing and didsibuti  w    compl_ted. A total of
690.700 books ad 1.240.900supleam ae tditibtd.
3. Monitoring and evaluation                               3. To monitorin sad evaluatio actvs are rpot  to be         09
______ _   completed. No daa is availble 
0



S. Sec Delivery in               1. Establishment of VCDCs in 670 UPls in S pwovi   (Riau,    1. VCDCs were establised in 595 UPrs ia the S povinc.
Traasmigradotl Areas             Jambi, engkculu, S. Sumatr, and W. Kaliantan).
2. Conduct a baseie survey.                                2. The suvey was conducted in 198788 nd ae tpt was
3. Training for DKKBN staff, fleidwodcers and commaniy leaden    3. The training was conducted. The number of partipats by
in th 5 provines.                                           ypo of training was reotd as:
PLKR training-       595 pasicipan
PPKBD training-      316 paticpas
Paamedics trainins.   168 pacipats
Community leaden &
motivator taining-    5950pacpas
4. Devdopment of training maerias.                         4. Training meals wee deveoped ad ditbted
S. Acquisition of materials.                               S. Mater  procued and di4bed. 
6. Procurement of 600 bicycles and 90 motorcyles.          6. Procurement caeled due to proe   nt procds and lack
of finds from 001.
7. Posyand  and Nutritonal progam inputs and weighing scale.    7. Materids (inlduding medicines contraceptives, IEC maria,
NORPLANTS) war procured.
6. Research                       1. 16 reviews and studies by BlUBN's Research Cters.       ?. The 16 reviews and studies we  completed. (for more detail
s  '"'b1e3.6).
2. Local and ovrseas trainig. A otal of 10 shortterm and 9  2. The taning was conducted. A tota of 4 shorter mad 9
long-tem felowships wore planed.                           longtam fellowships w    completed.
1. A total of 48 mm of local technical assistance and 12 mm of  3. Techncl assistc was provided, but    all rsoures for this
foreign technical asss     woe planned for this co_mp it.  activity wre  lized. The tota  cnial ascewas rported
as 35 mm of locel and 12 mm of foreign technicd asIstne.
o



|   I- i.-
iS  l ji  b
UI  is    I{
.. 10 1.1
v 30 v 38ea                               -TV-



- 42 -
3.5                  Project Cost and Financdng
a.            Project Costs (US$ Milons)
Expnditure
Cateo                                      Apprasal               Revised         hAlt
S% Foreign       TO             Total          TOt
CiviWorks
________________________              28             23.2           IS.9           IS.6
Equlpmentl Materials/
Vehicles                             70            37.4            16.5          11.3g
Technical Assistance. Fellowships
and Training                          28            30.3            18.5          16.0
Land
6             3.5            3.S            1.9
Total                                 44            94.4           54.4          44.8bL
L Th. differnce could be due to the cancellation of procurement of vehiles.
k_ Total project cost is based on USS equivalence of reported annual project cost in Rupiah by 001.



- 43 -
b.            Project Financing
Source                  Percent of             Planned Loan           Revised      Actual
Disbursement    Agreement (USS '"000)
IBRD Expenditue
Category
Civil Works          100%                        22,000              14,631       14,021
Equipment &           100%, 90%,                 10,300               7,647       6,583
Materials            65%nL
(excluding Part I of
Project kL)
Conutant Services   100%                          8,400               8,158       7,170
& Overseas
FeUowships
Local                20%                          3,000              4,691w       4,691
Trining(excluding
Part I of Project)
Unallocated                                       2,300                 -
Total WRI)                                       46,000              35,127       32,4655i
Total GOI                                        48,400              19,273       12,305
Total Project                                    94,400              54,400       44,770&t
at 100% of foreign expenditures, 90% of local expendiwrks (ex-factory) and 65% of local xapendius for oher
items procred locally.
b/ Part I of Project consists of support to non-government organizations (NOOs).
sL The percentageof Bank financing for this category was revised to 100%.
d/ Tbis figure is preliminary since the project stil has a four month gSace period for categories 3 and 4.
gJ Total project cost is based on USS equivalence of reported annual project cost io Rupa by 001.



-44-                  Page 1 of 3
B   ! Itt jit       }lj  f
1111  11.t1X           1 t
S    l~ii "4 il,  III '11111l
1X   i t il         lx fi      I.t
I A     1:11 il  II   II   il  sII



A.2 Cente for Nabtonnd Famiby Panning
a) Evaluation of family planning    To assffte  prvision of family planing   Completd.   Sevai              en ad chasges ia methods
service delhwy in die urban areas.  services for the different commnew in an    1986       of sevicc delivey we  btrodued. The
udran s4ting.                                         results weem as  usod in the design of the
Fifth Population Project.
b) Determinants of cotraceptive                 facors co      wit           Compld.   Th anays  ss   the progam in
prevatence rate.                    conceptiv prevalncc raes.                 1986           etifying ta  aQd gaps in th  program
sevice deivery system.
c) Levels and determinants of       To ddamine tde continuatioa raes among   Completd,   The study assisted tie pogrm in determining
contraewtive continiation rates.    family planning acceptors.                1986         tie offectivatessof the contracePtv services
and the program nees.
4) Studios of population dynamics in  The study was intally plannem to examine  Completed,   Th study provided guideinesabout differvat
| rlation to family planning program  alternativeo scenair, for the program and to    1990   eatives and projtions for tbe family
implementation.                     analyze the financial implications of the              planing ptogam, but did not achieve its
different alternatives. The sudy fenl sot of          onal objetivo in trms of providin a
that and analyzed the differet componets              financial estimat for posle alatives.
of population dynamics: ferility, mortality           The fnancial anaysis was later providod by
and migration,.                                       tde nks  tor report on family planning.
A.3 Biomedikal and Human Reproduction
Resrach Centerij
a) The effet of IUD on serum ferritin.   To study and compare te level of serwm  Completed,   Study provided information about the blood
.erritin among IUD uses and non-users.   1986         loss in reltion to tde use of IUD.
b) The effect of use of non-steroid anti-   To compae the effectivenessof Non Steroid   Completed.   Provided information about th.efdf eeof
inflammatory drugs (NSAID)          Anti Infl_amaory drugs (NSAID) in        1986          NSAID for rID sid-effet.
administered at the beginning of    alleviating the side effecs associated with
menstruation on the continuation rato of  IUD Ue.
IUD.
c) Study on physical hedth of pill  Compare some indicator of physical eh    Completed.   Rport on the physical bth ss of the pill
acceptors.                          betweeo pill uses and tnon-usas. Mme     1987          usrs
indicators included blood pressr, beight
I _______________________                and  weight.                           I                                                                            0
It Thc studies reported for the Center for Biomedical and Humn Reproduction werc done in collaboraton with WHO.



4) Compare the cff_civenessof IUD    To com    ad repoet on tie sdeeffiects,    Comoe       To Mden" do probems Fa  tho esp         of
Woertion by various provids.         faiue aes and compliatim of MID           1988         differt modial pessnnel i I mmtng lUDs.
istion by different qtps of prvder
e) Study ont long-m effects of       To assess the rdatve risk ndt ocarece of   ComWpktd,   Add to the scieoc ovideno about the *'Of
contracetive use on reproductive     mal cie g fao ily planig                  1990         walinanowsassocited with,co acepti
OrNI.                                acctors and no _cceptor
f) Study on safety and effiacy of    To compoa  to ssey, efica  and            Comploted    To rport on the acceptancel vel of do
progestone comped to other           accAn of peterononly                      1990          iffesn l typesW ad thiri doWects.
otceives.                            contacetives arnd combind oral
B. Other studis Bv BKKBN
a) Fasility study for Ci;n Band      To provide aswers about the need and      Completed,   Study coducted and resus idwad tde
Radios.                              speciriaions of CB radios r_quested by the    1989     usefulness of CB radios with a specifi
family planing pro°rm.                                 f1equancy.
b) asline survey for transmigration  To provide information about ot populaton    Compkted,   Study usw completed and results wre uwd a
areas.                               profip e to address their family plaoning  1988        the design of the transmigration program.
oeods.
.__ _ -_ _ ,___ __ _.__.__,__ _=_ _=___                                                ,_ ne ds   _ _. s - ,i___ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __,_ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
5c



3.7          Status of covenant
Sectin                                                                      Deadline
otyp of Covent)                             Descripton of Covenan                  for Compliae               Statu
Loa:                              a) Etablish two Steering Committee Groups for       03 1/88                Compliod
Artc 6.01, No. 1(1)               Parts A and B of project;
b) Assign qualified staff in adequate numbers to
manage and supervise cvi works being caried
under the project.
Aticle 6.01, No.2 (12)            Acquire land and all rights for consWuction of      OB311/8                Complied
BKKBN offices and warehouses under the
project.
Schedule S, para 10 (M2)          KLH plan for overseas graduate level trainig in     04/0i/88              Complied in
population education.                                                       11/86
Schodue 5, para 4(a) (Ml)         Study on acquisition of Citizen Band radios.        08/17/0            Study comple,
archa  caneiled
Scedule S, para S (M2)            Tmining assessment by BKKBN.                        04/01M88               Complied
Schedule S, para 7 (4Ml)          IEC stratgy for BKKBN.                              04/01/88               Complied
Schedul 5, pam 8 (Ml)             Population Education Pan of Action.                 04/01/88             Compt by
11/1986
Schedule S, pam 9(a) (Mt)         Program of reseach for BKKBN.                       04/01188            Compltd by
Schedule 5, para 9 (b) (M l)      Report on contraceptive users and continaion        08/09/89               Complied
rates (due every 2 years).
Schedule S, para 9 (c) (T5)       Fmancial anaysis of BKKBN, mudium and long-         08/09/89              Complied
term requirments.
Schedul S, pam 9(d) (TS)          Long term famiby planning strate.                   0630/88                Complied
Covenants codes:
I Create/Revisc/Updateorganizations; improve management and MIS; agreements bawen or with agencies.
Ml =Supervision of implementation./ M2 =Adequate training program.
T2-Construction standards. / TS =Ensure 0 & M plan and funding.



-48 -
3.8      Missions and Bank Resources
a.   Use of Bank Resources
Stage of Project Cycie           Planned                    Finsa
Through Appraisal                  NA                        39
Appraisal Through Board            NA                        103
Presentation
Board Presentation                 NA                        NA
Tlrough Effectiveness
Supervision                        NA                        131
PCR                                NA                        3
Total                             NA                       276
Source: MIS, 12/17/92



- 49 -
b.   Missions
Month/Year  Duration of  Number of   Specializations
Mission'     Persons      Represented
Through          5/ 1983        10           1              NA
Appraisal
7/ 1983        7            5         E, P. H, A, C
1/ 1984        18           2             NA
4/ 1984        21           5             NA
Appraisal        9/ 1984        21           6              NA
Appraisal       5 1984        NA            1              A
lTrough
Effectiveness
_  7/ 1985        10           4             NA
Supervision     12/ 1985        21           6              NA
9/ 1986        10           4             NA
5/ 1987        14           2             P, H
6/ 1987        20           1             P, A
8/ 1987        22           5             P, H
2/ 1988        20           1              P
7/ 1988        27           7             P, E
3/ 1989        9            2              P
3/ 1990        21           3             P, A
8. 1990       25            2             P, A
6/ 1991        22           4             P, H
PCR              4/ 1992        19           3           P, H, A
=Population Specialist H=Health Specialist
A=Architect           C=Communication Specialist
E=Economist
I The data on exact number of days for Population IV supervision and in the field
was mostly missing. Ihis number reflects the duration of the mission in total.



MAP SECTION
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBiD 186RfPPA)
-,, >THAILAND i  .;;,
g-_ -   1   X   ,-,t,/l. {f/l5                      ez         ti>.  )    --             P9tlP~~~~ tor~                              FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
C   >   i r      1 h1MALAYSIA  )°>                                                     e< 
<  X  -% lw   r.      \8                                       /p   X                                                               /                             =- f 
#- 6l7  ''g
f, IlW^TORAtliATfA    e   f, ] .,    ,                                                           :        , MA.A\S|A
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ALx1f  T. A' MAP IS BAE ON
lo *_T              f         \   ~~~~~~INGO                                                                                                                                   tB3^We 100 AW4 IM  waI x       ,t 
f2c.r<srnA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                                                                      NAV BEEN UPDATED 4
|5fTfIU""T   2 C f fSUIW   ff l~~~~4 10  (    }}    ~~t>    -i  <*                     U                       |   *   f                 r9 <"  AKV
lOra^TsffT~~~~~N-Rzuwss.    
l|9 _ r T& f - ~~ -8ii;wDCt J ! $ ~~ if se f_ ffAf *f T- _ '. 2 ~~ ~ / - . _S i
22Tf> 11iR   9 f   l.Bll                                          v wr _          j      *1L1f f484e Ifffi   .v Tl                                   9      P      t°    lip    ffff0 8,
2411JlullFTfelelATffJr   tOCJ0A                                ,-      1l;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~156
2f6MLlTfhff   T    KT> J !, _ ..' ¢u r. .. ; 2 = 9 9D S                                4 A Wf
oomnNCjz                                                                                        llr t8, ?_
;,Z7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ur 9



