DoC_VAnt Of
The World Bmk
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
/k a 25 A)
Rqpwn No 5404-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
April 10, 1985
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This documen ha a restrcted distrbli  and may be ued by recipkts ody in the perfmurmce of
their fficdi dues Its cmt'n  may no otberwise be dbiclosed widh   Word _ak athoriation.



CURREC! EQUIVAENrS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 = RP 1,100
Rp 1 million = US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
ApriL 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS ND INIATIALS
ADB                       Asian Development Bank
BAPPEDA: Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS                  National Development Planning Agency
CBR                       Crude Birth Rate
FPFW                      Family Planning Field Worker
GOI                       Government of Indonesia
IEC                       Information, Education and Communication
IUD                   I. tra-Uterine Device
MIU                       Mobile Information Unit
MiOEC                    Mlinistry of Education and Culture
roi                       Mi:istry of Information
MOH                       Ministry of Health
MOPE                      Min-istry of Population and Environment
HOT                       M inistry of Transmigration
NFPCB                     National Family Planning Coordirating Board
NGO                       Non-Governmental Organization
PCR                       Project Completion Report
PPAR                      Project Performance Audit Report
PTC                       Provincial Training Center
REPELITA                  Five-Year Development Plan
SEKNEG                    National State Secretariat
TFR                       Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA                     United Natior-s Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF                    United Nations Children's Fund
UPT                       Transmigration Resettlement Unit
USAID                     United States Agency for International Development
VCDC                      Village Contraceptive Distribution Center
WHO                       World Health Organization



FOR omCLIL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    iii
Loan and Project Summary .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0        iv
Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        vi
I.    DEMOGRAPHIC PROFILE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
A. Current Status. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          I
B. Population Projections. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          2
C. Consequences of Population Growth . . . . . . . . .          3
II.   POPULATION POLICY, ORGANIZATION AND PROGRAM . . . . . .         4
A. Policy and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          4
B. Organization and Program. . . . . . . . . . . . . .          7
C. Achievements and Constraints . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
III.  PREVIOUS POPULATION PROJECTS. . . . . . . . . . . . . .        10
A. First, Second and Third Population Projects . . . .         10
B. Bank Role and Assistance Strategy . . . . . . . . .         11
C. Project Origin and Formulation. . . . . . . . . . .         12
IV.   TE  ROJEC  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         12
A. Project Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         12
B. Detailed Project Description. . . . . . . . . . . .         14
V.    PROJECT CSSTS AND FINANCING . . .-. . . . . . . . . . .        23
A. Cost Estimates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         23
B. Financing Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
C.  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        25
D. Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         27
E. Accounts and Audit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Indonesia in September 1984. The personnel involved were: Mr. J. Kisa
(mission leader), Ms. C. Fogle, Mr. D. Pearce, Mr. G. Sinclair (PHN);
Messrs. D. Mills and J. Nelson (consultants); and Mr. K. Goto (AEA1N).
Ms. L. Domingo and Mr. N. Prescotc (PHI) assisted in report preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont.)
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION. . .   29
A. Project Organization and Management. . . . . . . . .   29
B. Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
A. Project Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
B. Project Risks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
VIIL. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . .   31
ANNEXS
1  Population Distribution by Province, 1980. . . . . . . .   34
2  Growth Rates by Province, 1961-1980. . . . . . . . . . .   35
3   Population Projections with NRR = 1 by 2010. . . . . . .   36
4   Location of NFPCB District Offices . . . . . . . . . . .   38
5   Proposed Technical Assistance. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   41
6  Implementation Schedule. .  .. ..  . . . . . . . . .   42
7   Documents Available in Project File. . . . . . . . . . .   44
8  Project Costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   46
9  Vehicle Procurement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   50
Chart
C-1  Organigram:  National Family Planning Coordinating
Boerd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a  . .     51
C-2  Organigram:  Ministry of Population and Environment. . .   52
Map
IBRD 18666R



- iii -
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Basic Data
Total area (thiousands   2), . . .   . a  . . . . . a . . -         1,919
Total population  -  (1980 census in millions)..                      147.5
-  (mid-1982 in millions) ..  .....  .          .  152.6
Density per km2 - Indonesia (1982) ............. .                     78
Crude birth rate (1982) . . . .    .. ......  ...  . ...   .           34
Crude death rate (1982) . ............                        . . . .  13
Annual rate of natural increase (1982) (%). . . . . . . . . .           2.1
Infant mortality rate (1982). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         102
Life expectancy at birth (1932, in years) . . . . . . . . . .          53
Urban population as perceatage of total population (1982) . .          22
Adult literacy rate (1981) (Z). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5          62
Population per physiciaa (1979) ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  11,530
Population per nursing person (1979) ............ .  2,300
Married women of reproductive age (15-44 years)
(l982 in millions) .................... .    24.3
Current contraceptive users as percentage of married
women of reproductive age (est. 1984) ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .    .  58
GDP per capita (1982) (US$) ............... .. .    580



- iv -
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia.
Amount:           US$46.0 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable rate.
Project
Description:   In support of the Government's population policy rnd
overall fertility reduction goals during Repelita IV
(1984-89) and beyond, the Project would: (a) help
strengthen the National Family Planning Coordinating
Board's (NFPCB) activities by: (i) further decentralizing
program administration, improving field communications and
mobility of fieldworkers; (ii) expanding and improving
NFPCB's education and training capacity; (iii) strengthen-
ing information, education and communication actlvities;
(iv) expanding population education; (v) developing
integrated family planning, health, and nutrition services
in transmigration settlement units in five provinces; (vi)
strengthening research activities; and (b) assist the
Ministry of Population and Environment (MOPE) in: (i)
developing a long-term Population Plan of Action; (ii)
strengthening population studies centers in 10 universi-
ties; and (iii) strengthening the capability of non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) to carry out population
activities. The Project would probably attract no greater
risk than the earlier Bank-assisted population projects,
particularly since there is now a strong nucleus of staff
in the NFPCB who have had considerable experience in
implementing Bank-assisted projects. As far as the
program is concerned, the risk is that, despite the proven
experience of the NFPCB, attainment of the Government's
demographic goals may be delayed which, in turn, would
necessitate a review of program strategies and require-
ments. Another risk is that effective field coordination
among the different implementing agencies, in particular
between the Ministry of Health and the NFPCB, may not be
fully achieved.  The role of MOPE in coordinating overall
population policy and activities is expected to mitigate
these risks.



v
Estimated Costa/
Local   Foreign  Total
--(LTS$ million)-
A. STRENGTHENING NFPCB
1.  Field Operations Development                 12.9      13.8   26.7
2.  Staff Development                             7.1       5.3   12.4
3.  Information, Education and Communication   2.5         10.1   12.6
4.  Population Education                          6.3        -      6.3
5.  Service Delivery in Transmigration Areas   8.3          0.3    8.6
6.  Research                                      2.3       0.7    3.0
Subtotal                                    39.4       30.2   69.6
B.  ASSISTING MOPE
1.  Indonesian Population Plan of Action          0.9       1.1    2.0
2.  Population Studies Centers                    2.1       3.5    5.6
3.  Support to NGOs                               0.5        -      0.5
Subtotal                                     3.5        4.6    8.1
TOTAL BASELINE COST                                  42.9       34.8   77.7
Physical Contingencies                            1.2       0.5    1.7
Price Contingencies                               8.9       6.1   15.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                  53.0       41.4   94.4
FINANCING PLAN
Bank                                             20.2      25.8   46.0
Government of indonesia                          32.8      15.6   48.4
TOTAL                                            53.0      41.4   94.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
(US$ Million)
Annual                                1.5    6.7   12.9   17.4    7.5
Cumulative                            1.5    8.2   2i.1   38.5   46.0
Rate of Return: Ncc applicable.
a/ Net of taxes and duties.



- vi-
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate    : Percentage of persons aged 15 years and over who
can read and write.
Age Specific Fertility
Rate                  : The number of births to women in a given age
group per 1,000 women in that age group in a
given year.
ChiLd Death Rate        : Number of deaths of children one to four years in
a given year per 1,000 children in this age
group.
Contraceptive
Prevalence Rate       : The percentage of married women of reproductive
age who are using a modern method of contra-
ception at any given point ia time.
Crude Birth Rate        : Number of births per 1,000 population in a given
year.
Crude Death Rate        : Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given
year.
Dependency Ratio        : The ratio of the economically dependeat part of
the population to the productive part, arbitrar-
ily defined as the ratio of the young (under 15
years of age) and the elderly (those 65 years of
age and older) to the working age population
(those 15-64 years of age).
Infant Mortality Rate  : The number of deaths of infants under 1 year of
age in a given year per 1,000 live births in that
year.
Life Expectancy at
Birth                 : The average number of years an infant will live
if current age/sex specific mortality trends
prevailiag at time of birth were to continue.
Maternal Mortality Rate:  The number of deaths to women due to pregnancy
and childbirth complicatioas ia a given year per
100,000 live births in that year.
Married Women of
Reproductive Age      : Women who are currently married, or in a stable
sexual union, generally between the ages of 15
and 49.



- vii -
DEFINITIONS (cont.)
Net Reproduction Rate      Average number of daughters that would be born to
(NRR)                    a woman (or group of women) if during her life-
time she were to conform to the age-specific
fertility and mortality rates of a gived year. A
net reproduction rate of 1.00 means that each
generation of mothers is having exactly enough
daughters to replace itself in the population.
Rate of Natural
Increase                 The rate at which a population is increasing in a
given year due to a surplus of births over
deaths, expressed as a percentage of the total
population.
Rate of Populatioa
Growth                   Rate at which a population is increasing in a
given year due to natural increase and net
migratioa, expressed as a percentage of the base
population.
Total Fertility Rate       Average number of children that would be born
alive to a woman (or group of women) during her
lifetime if during her childbearing years she
were to bear children at each age in accord with
prevailing age-specific fertility rates.



INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
1. DENOCRPIC PROFI   1/
A. Current Status
Population Growth and Distribution
1.01      Indonesia's population of about 152.6 million (mid-1982)
increased at an average annual rate of 2.1% between 1961-70 and 2.3%
between 1971-80. However, this acceleration in the average rate of growth
between the two decades as a whole masks a significant declining trend in
annual rates of growth during the latter period: from about 2.6% in 1970 to
an estimated 2.1% by 1980. In other words, fertility began to decline more
rapidly than mortality during the 1970s owing, inter alia, to higher
average age of marriage and to increasing and widespread contraceptive use,
particularly in Java and Bali.
1.02      In addition to its absolute size, the fifth largest in the world,
and still high overall growth rate, the two most prominent features about
Indonesia's population are: regional extremes in density, ranging from aa
average of 690 persons per km2 in Java, where over 60% of all Indonesians
live on less than 7% of the country's total land area, to about 3 persons
per km2 in Irian Jaya, accounting for over 20% of total land area; and,
lack of a significant difference in the fertility level between rural and
urbaa areas. Data showing population distribution by province (1980) and
population growth rates by province (1961-80) are provided in Annexes 1 and
2.
Componencs of Population Growth
1.03      Fertility.  In the absence of effective nationwide vital
registration, direct estimates of crude birth rates and other fertility
indices are not available. However, estimates derived from 1980 census
data indicate that Indonesia's total fertility rate (TFR) fell from 5.5 in
1967-70 to 4.5 in 1980, or by about 18%, and that fertility declined by
varying degrees in all provinces. The most spectacular decline occurred in
Bali where the TFR fell by 38% during the above period; and, with the
exception of Jakarta, all provinces of Java experienced reductions in
fertility exceeding the national average. Detailed analysis of these data
has demonstrated that increasing and widespread use of contraceptives
associated with the successful initial implementation of the family
planning program accounts for most of this decline. Nevertheless,
Indonesia's TFR, most recently estimated at 4.3 in 1982, remains high in
1/   A more detailed treatment of regional variations in population,
migration and economic and social development is available in
Indonesia: Selected Aspects of Spatial Development (World Bank Report
No. 4776-IND, dated November 1, 1984).



-2-
absolute terms and in comparison with such neighboring countries as the
Philippines (4.2), Malaysia (3.7), Thailand (3.6) and Singapore (1.7).
1.04      Mortality.  Despite substantial progress during the last 20
years, mortality, specifically among infants and children aged 1-4 years,
remains high. However, compared to fertility, provincial differentials in
mortality appear somewhat less pronounced. Infant mortality declined
consistently in all provinces during the 1970s, with the sole exception of
West Nusa Tenggara, where it increased from 170 to 188 per thousand live
births. In 1980, infant mortality was estimated at about 102 per thousand
live births, significantly higher than the Philippines (51), Thailand (51),
Malaysia (29), Singapore (11), and the average for all middle-income
countries (76).
1.05      Migration.  The population of Indonesia is relatively immobile;
between 1975-80 only 3.5 million people aged 5 years and over, comprising
roughly 2.4% of the total population, moved across provincial boundaries.
The pattern of population movement shows two dominant streams. The first
is an influx of migrants into metropolitan Jakarta and Lampung, two areas
with very dissimilar economies; metropolitan Jakarta dominates in
Indoaesia's urban-bound migration and Lampung is the focus of resettlement
schemes associated with the official transmigration program. The second
major stream is population movement out of Central and East Java. In this
connection, although areas of Kalimantpn, Maluku and Irian Jaya showed net
losses of population before 1970, this trend has been reversed since the
mid-1970s because the focus of transmigration shifted away from Sumatra to
these areas.
1.06      Sources of Population Growth.  A decomposition of provincial
growth rates into the two basic components of natural increase and migra-
tion shows that migration contributed significantly to population growth in
Jambi, Bengkulu, Lampung, Central a--4! East Kalimantan, and Sulawesi in the
Other Islands, and Jakarta in Java; growth rates in these provinces
increased by at least 20-35% because of net in-migration. By contrast,
Central Java's growth rate decreased by about 35% because of net out-migra-
tion. For most provinces, however, growth rates reflect differences in
their rates of natural increase, which in general are higher in the Other
Islands than in Java-Ball owing to higher fertility in the Other Islands.
With the exception of Jakarta and West Java, rates of natural increase in
Java-Bali are much lower than the national average; Jakarta and West Java
had high levels of fertility, compared to the rest of Java, contributing to
a relatively larger rate of natural increase.
B. Population Projections
1.07      Bank projections suggest that Indonesia's population will grow to
about 179 million in 1990 and to about 212 million by the year 2000; aad
that a net reproduction rate equal to one would be reached in 2010, leading
to an ultimate stationary population of 370 million. Assuming a continued



-3 -
gradual decline in fertility, the average annual populatioa growth rate is
projected to decrease from just over 2.0% between 1980-85 to 1.8% between
1990-95 and further to 1.4% between 2000-2005. Population growth rates are
expected to decline in all provinces except Yogjakarta and East Nusa
Tenggara between 1980-90, owing to the temporary impact of the existing age
structure on fertility in these two provinces. Java's share in the total
population is expected to decline from about 62% in 1980 to about 58% by
the year 2000, despite an absolute increase in metropolitan Jakarta.
Sumatra is expected to experience the largest proportionate increase,
rising from 19% of total population in 1980 to about 22% by the year 2000.
The shares of Kalimantan and Sulawesi are also projected to increase
slightly during this period.
C. Consequences of Population Growth
1.08      The inevitable increases in population projected above, including
the changes in its age structure, have important implications and conse-
quences for the development and the quality of life of all Indonesians.
For example, the decline in fertility and overall growth rates projected
through the rest of this century will gradually exert downward pressure on
the populati3n's dependency ratio, i.e. a reduction in the proportion of
dependent population per 1,000 working-age population; however, in some
Other Island provinces in particular, relatively high dependency ratios
(about 1.3) are expected to continue throughout the 1990s. On the other
hand, other economic and social pressures will increase--on the education
sector, the labor force and employment and on food supply. Some of these
consequences are outlined below.
1.09      Education.  Betweea 1980-2000, the numbers of school-aged
children are expected to increase as follows: at the primary level, from 23
million to 28 million; at the junior secondary level, from 10 to 13
million; and at the senior secondary level, from 12 to 13 million. Mean-
while, junior and senior secondary enrollment ratios are very low: 34% at
the junior secondary level and 19% at the senior secondary level, both in
1980. If the current low enrollment ratios remained constant through 1990,
at least 573,000 additional places would be required in junior secondary
schools and about 450,000 additional places in senior secondary schools.
Moreover, public demand for secondary, specifically junior secondary,
education is rising, in line with the increasing numbers of primary school
graduates; and consideration is currently being given to a proposed program
designed to increase gross enrollment ratios to 100% at the junior
secondary level and to 75% at the senicr secondary level by 1990. This
would involve an increase in junior secondary school places from about 3.5
million in 1980 to at least 12 million in 1990, and in senior secondary
places from about 1.8 million to about 9 million during the same period.
Such a program would clearly require a massive increase in public and
private expenditures on education; it would also be constrained by short-
ages in well-trained teachers and problems of absorptive capacity within
the time available.



- 4 -
1.10      Labor Force and Employment. During the current decade, about 16
million additional persons are projected to enter the labor force, compared
with about 10 million during the 197Cs. About half of this increment will
be in Java, about one-quarter in Sumatra and the balance throughout the
rest of the country. Given the limited absorptive capacity of agriculture,
a large proportion of new jobs will ceed to be created in industry and the
service sectors which, iacreasingly located in urban areas, will have
important implications for urban growth. In the circumstaaces, the process
of urbaaization, already underway (from a low base), may need to be
assisted by specific initiatives to develop regional urban growth centers
i- various Other island provinces. Such initiatives, e.g. industrial
estates or export processing zones, could be complementary to transmigra-
tion aad catalyze spontaneous migration from Java to the Other Islands,
based on creation of employment and busiaess opportunities in sectors other
than agriculture.
1.11      Food Supply.  As a result of Government's efforts to expand food
production and marketing, total food avai-lability ia Iadoaesia is now more
than sufficient to m-et average autrition requirements of all people,
although distribution continues to be a problem. Rice, the primary staple,
has registered impressive output gaias ia recen, years. The prospects of
the population increasing by about 60 million during the next 16 years,
however, would generate increased demand for food and could threatea the
improved food security. This increase in demand could only be met by
substantial increases in food production and significant improvements in
food distribution.
I1.  POPULATION POLTCZ, CANZATION AND PROGRAM
A. Policy and Objectives
2.01      The Goverameat of Indonesia (GOI) defines population policy in
the broadest possible sense aad, since Repelita II (1974-79), its popula-
tion policy and program have been a part of its overall national develop-
ment plans. The main objectives of GOI's population policy, most recently
articulated in Repelita IV (1984-89) are: to reduce fertility and
mortality, to increase life expectancy, and to reduce the imbalance in the
population's distribution. The key components or instruments of this
policy are the family planaing program, related health and nutrition
services, aad transmigration. The principal purpose of the family planning
progran, for which the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB)
is the lead executing agency, is to reduce fertility by integrating family
planning activities into the cultural, economic and social development
programs of all governmeat agencies and by promoting social acceptance of
the small family norm among individuals, families and communities; the main
emphasis of the Ministry of Health's (MOH) community health and nutrition
activities is to reduce infant, child and maternal mortality, one of the
most effective approaches towards reducing fertility; and the ultimate goal
of the transmigration program, under the Ministry of Transmigration (MOT),
is to help improve population distribu-ion by providing land for the land-
less of Java, Bali and Lombok and, at the same ti-e, by providing manpower



-5 -
for presently undeveloped and sparsely populated areas of the country.
Indonesia's broad-based, multi-facetted population policy and program
involves several government agencies and noo-governmental organizations,
all of which require coordination in terms of policy and activities. The
main agency responsible for coordinating the implementation of family
planning >zd related activities is NFPCB. A recently created Ministry of
Population and Environment (HOPE) is responsible for coordinating popula-
tion policy and integrating population considerations and perspectives into
all aspects of national economic and social development.
Demographic Goals
2.02      During the early 1970s, the GOI's long-term demographic goal was
to reduce fertility by the year 2000 to half the level estimated in 1971.
This involved lowering the crude birth rate (CBR) from 44 per thousand to
22 per thousand in 30 years and included the intermediate indicator or
target of a CBR of 34 per thousand by the end of Repelita III (1983/84).
By the late 197Us, the family planning program's encouraging results in
Java and Bali and a quickening of political resolve to control fertility as
a major national priority led the GOI in 1980 to accelerate its long-term
goal by 10 years, i.e. to lower the CBR to 22 per thousand by 1990, instead
of the year 2000. This revision implied an intermediate CBR target of
about 31 per thousand by the end of Repelita III or, in operational terms,
a nationa' contraceptive prevalemce rate of 51%.
2.03      By the end of Repelita III, the national contraceptive prevalence
was about 58%, according to NFPCB estimates (based on its service statis-
tics data) wnich, if confirmed and if similar progress were sustained
through Repelita IV, would suggest that the family planning program was
weli on course towards the 1990 goal of a CBR of 22 per thousand. Accord-
ing to NFPCB data, the target of current contraceptive users for fiscal
year 1984/85 was exceeded before the end of the fiscal year. However, it
is not yet clear whether actual progress to date, and therefore the degree
and type of effort required through Repelita IV, are fully consistent with
NFPCB's estimates. Moreover, Repelita IV itself projects a reduction in
the CBR from an estimated 33.5 per 1,000 in 1984/85 to 31 per 1,000 in
1988/89, which is conservative in comparisom -with program performance in
recent years.
2.04      Precise CBR and contraceptive prevalence estimates and projec-
tions are inherently difficult and central planners and program managers
may, for a varietv reasons, make different assumptions or projectiozs about
future progress over a five-year period. For these reasons, contraceptive
prevalence and continuation rate surveys will be carried ouL under the
Project to provide independent sources of data for cross-checking with
NFPCB estimates (see para. 4.21). Nonetheless, currenc trends, the planned
change in contraceptive method mix from heavy reliarce on the oral pill to
more effective methods, and improvement in the quality of services and
efficiency of field operations suggest that, while a CBR of 22 per thousand
may not be achieved by 1990, Repelita IV targets are likely to be ex-
ceeded. Whatever the outcome, the enormity of the reduction in fertility
st:LL required during Repelita IV and beyoad suggescs that. despite signif-
icant progress to date, a very Large family planning effort remains an
urgent national priority.



-6-
Populntion Program Strategy
2.05      Indonesia's population aad family planning program strategy has
three distinct characteristics. First, is the high degree of political
commitment it enjoys, which -s effectively exploited by the NFPCB to obtain
the cooperation and support of government officials at all levels and of
the general pub'lic.  Second, is the strong community involvement in both
the planning and implementation of the program.  NFPCB's village contra-
ceptive distribution centers (VCDCs), with support from its fieldworkers,
have become the oasis for developing village womea's organizations (PKKs)
in East aad Central Java and for utilizing Bali's traditional banjars for
development activities. Indeed, Iadonesia is one of thte few countries
where family planning activities at the community level have catalyzed
other developmental activities (health, nutrition, female literacy and
income-generating schemes) on which other government agencies are building
community-level programs. Third, is the decentralized management of the
program, facilitated by the semi-autonomous institutional status of NlFPCB
which permits a managerial and operational flexibility that is difficult,
if not impossible, in many government agencies.
2.06      From a modest base, the program is now a large and increasingly
sophisticated one and its short-term operational strategies have developed
accordingly, as follows: further strengthening of community involvement
through greater decentralization; improving program respoasiveness to
specific local needs; strengthening the outreach activities of other
governmnt agencies involved in community development activities; and, with
NFPCB's assistance, encouraging these other agencies to assume responsibil-
ity for aspects of the program within their purview. As for NFPCB itself,
its main priority in terms of family planning service delivery during
Repelita IV is to maintain current levels of acceptance, including improved
continuation and use, mainly in Java and Bali; and, to recruit new
acceptors in currently underserved areas, mainly in the Other Islands,
including transmigration settlements. Thus, NFPCB plans to intensify its
coverage at the community level by increasing its number of fieldworkers
and by strengthening its district and subdistrict level management
capability. It has also identified specific target groups, classified
according to five levels or phases of contraceptive prevalence with five
corresponding strategies or interventions.
2.07      The program strategy for Repelita IV calls for a holistic and
integrated approach to population issues and assigns considerable
importance to the roles of the community and non-governmental institutions
in the initiation and implementation of the program. Increasing awareness
of the important linkages of health, nutrition, and education to fertility
coatrol, has led to the development of programs designed to improve the
health, nutritional, and educational levels of Indonesians. As a result
of experience with integrated family planning and nutrition activities in
East Java and Bali sponsored by NFPCB with USAID assistance, and concerns
about effectiveness and efficiency of village-level/community health
services, the GOI recently decided to integrate the delivery of health,
nutrition, and family planning services at the community level. This
policy will entail much closer coordination with the MOH than has been the
case in the past. It will also require substantial assistance to the MOH



itself-in paramedical manpower development, and strengthening of
community-level health (including nutritioa services)-which are the focus
of two separate projects proposed for Bank assistance now being processed.
The long-term strategy calls for the integration of population with other
development programs aad emphasis on programs which influence fertility,
such as reduction of infant mortality through upgrading of health care,
improving the status of women, expanding female education, and developing
community incentives.
B. Organization and Program
2.08      In line with its broad-based nature, several ministries and
agencies are involved in the program, including the Ministries of
Education and Culture, Health, Home Affairs, Information, Population and
Environment, Transmigration, and Women's Affairs, the Armed Forces, and
voluntary organizations such as the Indonesian Planned Parenthood
Association and various religious groups. Although the Ministry of Health
is the principal agency responsible for delivering clinical family planning
services, family planning is considered mainly a social and behavioral
process- Fence its multi-sectoral nature and the designation of NFPCB, a
semi-auton -ous non-sectoral institution, as the principal coordinating
agency. Tie balance of this section of the report briefly describes the
salient features of NFPCB's organizational development and current
structure, followed by a summary of principal achievements and constraints.
Organization
2.09      Presidential Decree No. 8 of 1970 designated NFPCB as the agency
responsible for coordinating family planning activities and services,
authorized it to plan and finance all these activities, and enjoined other
miaistries and public and private agencies to cooperate with NFPCB in this
national endeavor. During the 1970s, NFPCB had two reorganizations and a
third took place in December 1983. The first reorganization in 1972
strengthened NFPCB's program monitoring and programming capability by the
addition of three Bureaus: Planning, Supervisicn, and Management of the
Field Program. This resulted in the establishment of a service statistics
and logistics system and the extension of the program to 10 provinces in
Other Islands 1.2/ The 1974 reorganization, coinciding with the initia-
tion of Repelita II, was designed to decentralize and integrate the program
with other development activities. Governors and mayors became responsible
for local coordination and the active participation of village leaders,
heads of households and acceptors was organized. The VCDCs in Java and
Bali were formed and in 1979 the program was extended to the remaining 11
provinces in Other Islands II.3/ The purpose of the 1983 reorganization
2/   Other Islands I include the provinces of Aceh, North Sumatra, South
Sumatra, West Sumatra, Lampung, West Kalimantan, South Kalimantan,
South Sulawesi, North Sulawesi, and West Nusa Tenggara.
3/   Other Islands II include the provinces of Riau, Jambi, Maluku,
Bengkulu, East Kalimantan, Central Kalimantan, Central Sulawesi,
Southeast Sulawesi, East Nusa Tenggara, East Timor, and Irian Jaya.



has to strengthen NFPCB further so that it could plan, manage and coordi-
nate the expanded program more effectively. By expa_ding the number of
organizational units, both at headquarters and in the field, it was
designed to ensure better utilization of available facilities and
resources, enhance community participation in program activities and
accelerate the achievement of program goals and targets. The planning,
manpower development and research functions were elevated to deputy chair-
man level, and the number of bureaus at the central level was increased
from 16 to 24.
Structure
2.10      At the central level, NFPCB is headed by a full-time chairmaa
assisted by a vice chairman, and six deputy chairmen responsible for
general affairs, planning and program analysis, operational program
development, program development, program manpower development, and super-
vision. Three new centers have been created under the new deputy for
program development to undertake operational research on national family
planning policy, national family planning studies, and biomedical and human
reproduction topics. The new deputy for program manpower development is in
charge of three centers responsible for program personnel, education and
trainirg of program personnel; and education and training of civil
servants. In addition, there are technical advisers to the Chairman, a
center for data processing and computer analysis, a center for program
informatlon and documentation, and four bureaus under the deputy for super-
vision. NFPCB's new organizational structure is shown in Chart 1.
2.11      Except for data processing and information and documentation, all
functions at the central level are represented at the provincial level.
The number of organizational units is, however, consolidated into four
divisions responsible for planning, research and evaluation, information
and aotivation, and supervision. Operations throughout the province
concerned are managed by the NFPCB provincial chairman in collaboration
with the provincial governor and heads of implementing agencies. Program
administration is further decentralized to the district level where the
NFPCB chairman cooperates with the administrative head of the district
(bupati) in coordinating all family planning activities in the district.
The staff at the district level, in addition to the Chairman, consist of
supervisors, fieldworkers and supporting staff.
2.12      Substantial staff increases are planned as a result of the last
reorganization. Headquarters staff is expected to increase from 874 in
1984 to 1,795 by 1989 and total NFPCB staff from about 27,900 to about
67,500 during this period. The ratio of headquarters to field staff would
decline from 0.032 to 0.027. At the village level, the number of family
planning fieldworkers (FPFWs) is planned to increase from 15,000 to 31,000
by 1989 so that one FPFW would cover two villages rather than four, as at
present. While the projected staff increases may be justified in terms ef
tne planned expansion and intensification of the program, the rate of
iacrease raises several questions. First, YFPCB's ultimate goal is to
irstitutior.alize family planning by integrating it into various development
programs carried out by other ministries; for example, population education
into the educational system; income-generating activities into community
development programs; and information, education and communication activi-
ties into general development programs. Such integration implies transfer
of responsibilities from i-FPCB to the sectoral ministries concerned and



- 9 -
when this stage is reached, a reduction in its staff. Thus, NFPCB's long-
term goals seem somewhat inconsistent with the planned short-term increase
in its staff. Second, the large staff increase will generate substantial
recurrent costs at a time when Indonesia's rate of economic growth is
expected to be lower in Repelita IV than in Repelita III. The revenue
constraints currently facing the GOT could render the projected staff
increases difficult. Third, a doubling of staff within five years lhas
far-reaching implications for training, personnel administration and
efficient program management. The GOI is aware of these issues and has
undertaken to review staff requirements in relation to program needs and
available resources each year of Repelita IV.
Financing
2.13      Expenditures on the family planning program grew rapidly during
Repelita III, with heavy but declining reliance on external assistance.
Total expenditures in FY84 were estimated at Rp 102 billion ($92.7
million), of which 60% was financed from domestic sources. The NFPCB
projects that its annual resource requirements during Repelita IV will
nearly triple to Rp 277 billion ($251.8 million) by FY89.
2.14      Programmed aid from external sources for Repelita IV totals
Rp 143 billion. Support has come from the WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF, the World
Bank Group, and the World Food Program, as well as from the bilateral
programs of the USAID, the Japan International Cooperation Agency, and the
Government of the Netherlands. In addition to supplying contraceptives,
USAID provides technical assistance in a broad range of program areas and
advanced training fellowships for managerial and technical staff. Many
non-governmental organizations also assist the program, including the
Association for Voluntary Sterilization, the Columbia University Center for
Population and Family Health, Family Health International, the Ford
Foundation, and many others. The UNFPA is supporting, among others, the
development and implementation of an integrated family planning, nutrition,
and primary health services in Other Islands I, the strengthening of
program services in urban areas, demographic research, and production of
oral contraceptives. It also assisted the 1980 census. WHO is supporting
psychosocial research in family plarning and research on new injectable
contraceptives. USAID has provided Indonesia with contraceptives since
1968. UNICEF's main assistance included support to the family nutrition
improvement program (UPGK). Japanese support to the program consisted
mainly of assistance for the establishment of a media production center as
well as a condom manufacturing factory.
C. Achievements and Constraints
2.15      By all the conventional measures of population and family
planning program performance--including government commitment to fertility
control, multi-sectoral participation by all government agencies concerned,
knowledge, attitude and practice of family planning, and program manage-
ment, organization and efficiency-the Indonesian program has made very
substantial progress during the last 15 years. Indeed, it is now widely
regarded as one of the most successful in the world.  The reasons for th's
are many and include elements that are unique to Indonesia's cultural and



- 10 -
socio-economic setting. The preceding sections of this report have
referred to some of the more significant factors and others are described
at greater length in other Bank reports including a recent sector memo-
randun available in the Project file.
2.16      Notwithstanding these achievements and progress, much more
remains to be done if Indonesia's demographic objectives are to be
achieved. While many socio-economic variables influence, directly or
indirectly, the goal of reduced fertility, access to and availability of
family plarning services remains a key contributor to effective fertility
control. In this connection, the main overall program constraints that
NFPCB will need to address during Repelita IV and beyond include: improv-
ing the quality of family planning services by encouraging existing
acceptors to substitute more reliable methods tIUDs, injectables, implants,
etc.) for the pill, which currently accounts for about 60Z of contraceptive
use through strengthening (a) the clinical service delivery of MOE, (b) the
non-clinical service delivery of NFPCB, and (c) operations research and
staff training; intensifying efforts to itcrease the number of family
planning acceptors in underserved areas, mainly in the Other Islands;
strengthening further the coordination of family planning-related activi-
ties carried out by other government agencies, in particular the Ministries
of Education and Culture, Health, Information and Women's Affairs; extend-
ing further the management decentralization and community mobilization
process; and developing additional innovative approaches based on opera-
tional research and evaluation and the experience of non-governmental
organizations. In addition and partly to help address the above con-
straints, NFPCB's internal institutional priorities include: substantial
strengthenirg of its staff education and training capacity; improved
research and evaluation capability; development of more diversified
information, education and communications (IEC) strategies; and improved
service data collection and analysis, supplemented by regular contraceptive
prevalence surveys.   NFPCB's most recent reorganization and planned
expansion are designed to help strengthen its capabilities in these areas
and policies. Many of these issues, particularly those relating to access,
policy, and quality, are addressed as well by the proposed Project. Issues
concerning clinical service delivery are being addressed through separate
health projects.
III. PREVIOUS POPUL&TION PROJECTS
A. First, Second and Third Population Projects
3.01      Previous Bank Group assistance for population and family planning
in Indonesia comprises one credit (300-IND) and two loans (1472- and
1869-IND) totalling US$72.7 million which, together with loans for nutri-
tion (1373-IND) and provincial health (2235-IND) totaLling US$40 million,
makes Indonesia the second largest borrower for population, health and
nutrition after India (three population loans and one nutrition loan
totalling US$169.2 million). The primary objectives of the three previous
population projects was to help NFPCB develop and expand the family
planning program to cover the entire country. They supported program
management, manpower training and service delivery through institutional



- 11 -
infrastructure development and financed operational activities in IEC,
population education, and research.
3.02      The First and Second projects were completed in 1981 and early
1984, respectively, and the Third in March 1985. A project completion
report (PCR) for the First Project was issued in February 1984 and a
project performance audit report (PPAR) was recently issued. Meanwhile,
NFPCB has prepared a draft PCR for the Second Project, which is scheduled
for finalization by the end of June 1985. The main conclusion of both PCRs
is that the two projects contributed significantly to the early development
of NFPCB and the program, specifically to its expansion in Java and Bali
initially, and to the remaining 21 provinces of the Other Islands commenc-
ing in 1974. Bank assistance has thus helped extend the program to cover
the entire country.
3.03      This process of program development and institution building over
the past decade and a half has enabled the GOI to motivate and recruit
millions of contraceptive acceptors. As a result, both total fertility and
the rate of population growth have declined significantly during this
period. Bank-assisted projects have, therefore, contributed to the
achievement of Indonesia's intermediate demographic objectives. However,
the long-term demographic transition is barely underway. Indonesia's rate
of population growth remains high; millions of existing contraceptive users
have to be maintained, the program must be expanded to areas which are
currently underserved, and the small family norm must be fully institution-
alized. These imperatives require further program intensification and the
proposed Fourth Project will continue the financial and technical
assistance that the GOI still needs to address these challenges during the
next five years.
B. Bank Role and Assistance Strategy
3.04      As noted above (para. 3.01), the Bank's involvement in
Indonesia's population, health and nutrition sectors, starting with the
First Population Project in 1972, has expanded and broadened to include
health and nutrition projects. This broad-based existing and proposed
program of population, health and nutrition financial and technical
assistance activities, and the linkages between them, mirror and support
the evolution of the GOI's policies, programs and institutions in these
areas. Thus, in line with the GOI's comprehensive population policy and
strategies (paras. 2.01, 2.05-2.07), which includes specific interventions
designed to strengthen family planning, health and nutrition services and
overall human resource development at the community level, the Bank's role
and strategy is to assist the GOI in this complex long-term process (para.
2.06). Its primary goals are to help achieve the long-term demographic
goals and to further strengthen the institutional capacity of both the
NFPCB and the newly established MOPE. The principal vehicles for achieving
these objectives are proposed projects in population and family planning
(the Fourth Population Project), health (Manpower Development) and nutri-
tion (Community Health and Nutrition)-the latter two are expected to be
ready for presentation to the Executive Directors in late FY85 and early
FY86 respectively. As mentioned in para. 2.06 the development of para-
medical manpower and the strengthening of community/level health (including



- 12 -
nutrition) services would be crucial to the implementation of the inte-
grated family planning, nutrition and basic health services program. A.
modest program of economic and sector work and related policy studies and
analyses (included in some of these projects) will provide support to these
operations.
C. Project Origin and Formulation
3.05      The preparation of the proposed Fourth Project was undertaken
simultaneously with supervision of the Second and Third projects during the
last two years. Its size and composition emerged from continuing joint
Bank/NFPCB reviews of the population and family planning program's needs
and priorities, specifically during the next five years (Repelita IV), and
also the financial and technical assistance already committed or planned by
other external aid agencies, principally UNFPA, USAID, WHO and ADB. Thus,
the Project's specific components were selected partly on the basis of the
program's priorities, and partly on the basis of the GOI's decisions
concerning the source of assistance available and, partly on the absorptive
capacity of the NFPCB and the MOPE. Project preparation missions visited
Indonesia in January and April 1984 and the Project was appraised in
September 1984.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      Taking into account the GOI's population policy and overall
fertility reduction goals during Repelita IV and beyond, the main objective
of the Project is to help strengthen further the NFPCB. In addition, this
Project would assist MOPE, a policy coordinating ministry, to carry out its
overall population policy development and planning mandate. In the circum-
stances, the six NFPCB components and three MO0PE components included in the
Project described below were selected on the basis of NFPCB and MOPE
priorities during Repelita IV, their potential contribution to che achieve-
ment of the national demographic goals and to the institution-building
objectives noted above.
4.02      In summary, the Project's operational objectives and content,
described in more detail in paras. 4.03 - 4.24 below, consists of two main
parts, as follows:
Part A: Strengthening NFPCB
(a)  Field Operations Development:  completing NEPCB's decentrar-
lized field infrastructure in the districts of Other Islands
II and in Jakarta and improving field communications and
mobility throughout the country through the construction of
84 NFPCB district offices and the provision of communication
equipment, 6,480 motorcycles and 47,600 bicycles, and 2 man-
years of technical assistance;



- 13 -
(b) Staff Development: expanding and improving NFPCB's staff
education and training capacity through construction of a
new headquarters training center in Jakarta and the provi-
sion of equipment, vehicles, technical assistance (16.5 manr-
years), 153.5 man-years of fellowships, and teaching
materials;
(c)  Information, Education and Communication (IEC):  strengthen-
ing NFPCB's IEC activities ia producing and disseminating
audiovisual and printed materials through provision of
equipment, vehicles, traiaing, technical assistance (5 man-
years), and materials for 87 mobile uaits and for the head-
quarters and the 27 province-level IEC units;
(d) Population Education: expanding population education
through the training of 15,800 school prIncipals, super-
visors and teacher educators and 85,000 out-of-school
tutors, supervisors and facilitators and the provision of
equipment, training materials, and funds for monitoring and
evaluation;
Ce) Service Delivery in Transmigration Areas: developing
integrated family planning, health and autrition services ia
transmigration settlement units ia the provinces of Riau,
Jambi, Beogkulu, South Sumatra, and West Kalimantan through
provision of equipment, 90 motorcycles for NFPCB sub-
district-level supervisors and 600 bicycles for NFPCB family
planning fieldworkers, materials, technical assistance (5.8
man-years), and funds for training costs and baseline
survey; and
(f) Research: strengthening NFPCB's capacity to coordinate,
manage and undertake operational research through provision
of additional office space (in the new traiaing center),
funds for research activities, technical assistance (6 man-
years), and 15 man-years of fellowships for overseas
graduate-level trainiag of about 9 professional staff and
local short-term training of about 6 professional staff.
Part B: Assisting MOPE
(a) Indonesian Population Plan of Action: assisting the HOPE to
develop a long-term Populatioa Plan of Action for Indonesia
to be used in the preparation of five-year development plans
for the periods 1989-94 and 1994-99 through the provision of
technical assistance (27 man-years);
(b)  Population Studies Centers:  strengthening population
studies centers in 10 universities through provisior of 120
man-years of overseas graduate-level training and funds for
population research studies; and



- 14 -
(c) Support to Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs):
strengthening the capability of NGOs to carry out population
activities by providing training and materials in popula-
tionr-related subjects for members of NGOs.
B.  Detailed Project Description
Part A: Strengthening NFPCB
Field Operations Development
4.03      Decentralized administration and management have been one of the
maia strengths of the program. Thus, the NFPCB has over the years
strengthened its provincial, district, and village-level operations by
providing facilities for administration, training, IEC, and logistics, and
improving the mobility of its fieldworkers. The earlier population pro-
jects (LN 1472-IND and LN 1869-IND) helped ia this respect by providing
office accommodation and contraceptive warehouses for the NFPCB in all
provinces and in all 107 districts in 10 provinces of Other Islands I, and
vehicles for fieldworkers and field supervisors.    In order to complete
this decentralization process, similar NFPCB office and warehouse facili-
ties are required in each of the 79 districts of Other Islands II and 5 in
Jakarta. At present, existing NFPCB district-level staff in Other Islands
II is housed in inadequate, temporary accommodation borrowed or rented from
the local authorities concerned. In the circumstances, and given the key
role that district-level staff plays in field coordination, management and
supervision of family planning services, including the orientation and
training of sub-district and village-level staff and volunteers, storage
and distribution of contraceptives, and production, distribution and
dissemination of IEC materials, the provision of appropriate office
facilities is necessary and, in Other Islands II, is now urgent. This
component of the Project would therefore finance the construction, furnish-
ing and equipping of NFPCB offices and warehouses in each of the 84
districts of Other Islands II and Jakarta listed in Annex 4.
4.04      In addition, this component includes equipment and vehicles
required by NFPCB to increase the overall efficiency of its field opera-
tions and activities throughout the country. First, communications betweel2
NFPCB headquarters in Jakarta and its provincial offices would be enhanced
by the provision of telex facilities in Jakarta and in each of the 27
provinces to supplement existing telephone links, which are relatively
expensive, inefficient and unreliable. Second, communications in the field
itself would be strengthened by the provision of about 2,100 portable
citizen band (CB) radios for use by NFPCB field supervisors in coordinating
and/or reporting to and from their district office bases on day-to-day
field activities.  Third, the mobility of NFPCB's field-level staff and
volunteer workers--a necessity in a country of Indonesia's size and extent
and a significant factor in NFPCB's field-level achievements to date--would
be further improved by the provision of: about 6,460 motorcycles for
service delivery and program supervision activities by NFPCB fieldworkers;
and about 47,600 bicycles for other NFPCB family planning fieldworkers and
volunteers at the village level (comprising 13,400 for fieldworkers to



- 15 -
replace existing bicycles which, after several years, are beyond maiate-
nance and repair; 14,000 for additional fieldworkers; and 20,200 for
volunteers). With respect to the provision of CB radios, an innovation for
NFPCB though not for other GOI agencies, this component also includes funds
for carrying out a feasibility study (24 man-months of technical assis-
tance) to define the need for and appropriate specifications of the CB
radios before their procurement. Assurances were obtained from the GOI
that the study would be carried out in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank and that the recommendations of the study would be
furnished to the Bank for comments no later than April 30, 1986.
Staff Development
4.05      The earlier population projects supported the establishment of
provincial training centers and the training of various family planning
staff including primary health nurses, traditional birth attendants, and
health center staff.  During Repelita IV, continuing education and in-
service training will assume increased importance for four reasons: the
need to improve the quality and method mix of family planning service
delivery; the GOI's policy to integrate (or coordinate the delivery of)
family planning, primary health care and nutrition services at the con-
munity level; the program's strategy of promoting increased community
involvement in and responsibility for program planning and implementation;
and the rapid expansion of NFPCB's staff and inevitable staff attrition due
to retirement. Following its reorganization in December 1983, NFPCB's
strategy during Repelita IV is to expand and strengthen its training
activities in three areas: program-specific technical educatioa and
training for NFPCB managerial, operational, and technical staff at all
levels; obligatory in-service public administration aad management training
for NFPCB program managers; and orientation and training for the large
numbers of staff of other government departments and agencies involved in
the population and family planning program. These needs will place a heavy
burden oa NFPCB's training system at both the central and provincial
levels, and as mentioned in para. 2.16, would need considerable strengthen-
ing through the development of a core group of highly qualified and
experienced trainers and managers, and the provision of techaical assis-
tance and additioaal physical space.
4.06      In this latter connection, NFPCB's present training center in
Jakarta is aow confined to two classrooms and dormitory facilities for only
60 persons (two groups at any one time, or 576 training days per year). A
preliminary quantification of the training activities planned for Repelita
IV and beyond shows that an annual training capacity of up to 1,700 train-
ing days may be required. Accordingly, this component of the project would
provide for the construction of a new training and research center in
Jakarta and an increase in the number of qualified trainers and personnel
management staff. The proposed training and research center would be
designed to provide a capacity for about 1,440 training days annually,
sufficient to meet the bulk of NFPCB's training demand through Repelita
IV. It would comprise about 9,610 m2 (sufficient for 150 trainees at any
given time) consisting of an auditorium (9OOm2), a training center (7,510
m2) including classrooms, training management facilities, dormitories,
dining room, kitchen and service facilities; and NFPCB research centers
(1,200 m2). The existing training center would be converted to much needed
office space.



- 16 -
4.07      In addition to the new training center, the component would
support three types of activities designed to improve the quality of all
NFPCB-sponsored training at national, provincial and district levels, as
follows: (a) a comprehensive assessment of NFPCB's existing training
programs aad developmeat of revised curricula and new training materials;
(b) the training of NFPCB trainers and personnel management staff; and (c)
supervision and monitoring of NFPCB provincial aad district level training
centers and activities.
4.08      Since NFPCB was established in 1970, no comprehensive assessment
of the population and family planaing program's training needs has been
done, although its training requirements and costs in recent years have
changed. With the plaaned expansion of NFPCB staff and the evolution of
the program's strategy, such an assessment has become imperative. Hence,
the component would provide funds for a detailed, qualitative assessment of
training content, specifically a comprehensive evaluation of existing
training programs, courses and activities leading to the definition of a
new training strategy for Repelita IV and beyond, including the development
of revised curricula and new training materials. Assurances were obtained
from the GOI that the above training assessment would be carried out and
its results furnished to the Bank for comments aot later than June 30,
1986.
4.09      Although USAID has provided fellowships for graduate-level
traiaing of selected WFPCB staff, NFPCB's reorganization aad its proposed
staff expansion will require provision for advanced training of additional
trainers ar.d personnel management staff. The component would therefore
provide funds for graduate-level training of about 46 NFPCB trainers and
personnel management staff at local universities and 41 at overseas
iastitutions, or a total of about 87 trainers and personnel management
staff (for a total of 153.5 man-years). Along with this graduate-level
training, the component would support six-week courses for training of
trainers ac the central, provincial, and district levels in experiential,
field-based traiaing methods, which would be a prerequisite for those
taking graduate-level training. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that staff selected for such graduate-level training would
have completed experiential field-based training, which would be conducted
by experienced NF?CB trainers.
4.10      The third type of activity included in this component addresses
the quality of training provided at NFPCB's 27 provincial training centers
(PTCs). At present, these PTCs receive little technical guidance or
support from headquarters; their training staff are appointed initially
with only minimal skills and experience in training methodology and they
often require considerable on-the-job guidance. The component would
therefore provide funds for the systematic supervision and monitoring of
training activities at all 27 PTCs, specifically to enable headquarters
training staff to visit PTCs at least three times a year. A trainiag
supervision and monitoring system has already been developed by a
consultant financed under Loan 1472-IND.
4.11      In summary, to help implement all the activities outlined in
paras. 4.06-4.10 above, the component would provide 170 minibuses for the
NFPCB's national, provincial, and district training centers; training



- 17 -
materials; 75 man-months of local and 123 man-months of foreign technical
assistance (or a total of 16.5 man-years); and about 87 local and overseas
fellowships for the graduate-level training mentioned in paragraph 4.09
abore. The Project would also provide technical assistance services
required for: curriculum development and educational technology for experi-
ential training; development of training techniques for trainers; media
educational technology; monitoring and evaluation; instructional technol-
ogy; and program managemeat training.
Information, Education and Communications (IEC)
4.12      An independent evaluatioa of the NFPCB's IEC activities was
undertaken in 1984 with Bank/UNFPA assistance to assess progress to date
and, in light of the family planning program's needs and evolving strategy
during the 1980s and beyond, to explore new approaches and the main themes
of the updated IEC strategy required to maintaia and further expand indi-
vidual, family and community interest in and demand for family planning
(para. 2.12). In this connection, the evaluation recommended that NFPCB
should give priority to developing new approaches in Four areas: increas-
ing knowledge, attitude, and practice of family planning in general and of
specific family planning methods in particular; sustaining contraceptive
use; enhancing community-level understanding of the individual and commun-
ity consequences of the continued high rate of population growth; and
supporting family planning program staff in service delivery. NFPCB's
management is currently reviewing the findings and recommendations of this
evaluation and defining in detail an updated strategy for Repelita IV.
Assurances were obtained from the GOI that this strategy would be completed
and submitted to the Bank for review not later than December 31, 1985 and,
thereafter, carried out, taking the Bank's comments into account. Mean-
while, and apart from the substance of the updated strategy now under
preparation, NFPCB has proposed project support in three areas: strength-
ening provincial and district level audiovisual development units; replac-
ing and expanding the number of mobile information units; and implementing
IEC activities through family planning/health centers.
4.13      The Third Population Project (Loan 1869-IND) helped establish and
equip 21 provincial media development units outside Java and Bali to
produce slides, manuals, posters, cassettes, leaflets and brochures; and
UNFPA funded the establishment of six similar units in Java and Bali. To
increase the capability of these provincial units to reproduce IEC
materials in large amounts and in line with the decentralized implementa-
tion of the IEC program, this component would provide 5 man-years of local
technical assistance, printing equipment, and materials. It would also
help strengthen the capability of the NFPCB's district-level offices to
produce low-cost, simple IEC materials designed for local audiences through
the provision of appropriate audiovisual and exhibition equipment. This
strategy of channeling support directly to NFPCB's provincial and district-
level audiovisual development units is consfistent with the recommendations
of the 1984 IEC evaluation.
4.14      To develop the provisioa of IEC services at the community/village
level, the First Population Project (Credit 300-IND) financed the procure-
ment of 115 mobile in;formation units (MIUs) for use in Java and Bali.  The



- 18 -
Third Population Project replaced 29 of these units which had become
become unserviceable and provided ?1 new units for each of the 21 provinces
in the Other Islands. Some of the old MIUs were subsequently replaced
using funds from the same project. To complete the replacement of the
original 115 MIUs, and to expand the number in use in the Other Islands,
87 new MIUs would be provided under this component to expand and intensify
IEC coverage in villages more frequently than has been the case in the
past. Experience with these MIUs has shown that they are highly effective
in reaching the target audience.
4.15      Finally, in order to reach specific groups of non-acceptors,
NFPCB plans to intensify its IEC activities through the health sysEem,
using health center paramedical personnel as its agents. These paraaedi-
cals would be trained in motivation techaiques at NFPCB district offices
and provided with IEC kits. The Project would provide 12,000 IEC kits for
family planninglhealth centers for this purpose.
Population Education
4.16      The overall ob,ective of population education components in the
three previous World Bank-assisted population projects in Indonesia was to
help the Government, through an educational effort in both the formal and
non-formal sectors of the ex!ucational system, to develop better understand-
ing among the youinger generation of the close relationship between popula-
tion dynamics and the quality of life. Population education is designed to
foster better decisior-making in population matters, promote the small
family size norm and eventuall, contribute to achieving national population
policy goals. In addition to iaputs from the GOI, the three population
projects helped in the intre'uction of population education in school
curricula, textioutD Lad examinations at different levels of school
education. Over 30,000 teachers and about 200 master-trainers have been
trained in population education. Teaching materials (including audio-
visual aids) have been prepared and distributed to education offices in all
provinces and districts. In the non-formal education sector, population
education has become an integral part of the training at various training
centers (SKBs). Teaching kits and supplementary reading materials for
students have also been prepared. Under the Third Population Project,
special training (Master's degree level) was supported by providing fellow-
ships for 20 studerts at the Teacher Training Institute (IKIP) Jakarta.  An
evaluatioa conducted in 1982 showed that both teacher training in pcpula-
tion education and instruction of students in school and out-of-school had
been effective.  Based on a government decision in 1975, population educa-
tion became part of school curricula at all levels, elementary teacher
training institutes and the training institutiorns for non-formal educa-
tion. It is being incorporated iat- textbooks. The MDEC has established
population education cells in all the provincial and district education
offices to administer the program at these levels. Thus, the program is
well-advanced in both the formal and non-formal streams of the educational
system. However, it is not yet fulLy institutionalized, and therefore the
major effort in the Fourth Population Project would be to complete the
integration of population education into the educational system throughout
the country. The Project component would support the training of P,000
school education supervisors at provincial, district and sub-disttict
levels; 7,000 principals of public and private schools, and orientation of



- 19 -
85,000 supervisors, tutors and facilitators ia the out-of-school sector.
It would also provide funds for introducing population education in 10
teacher training institutes (IKIPS) and 21 university faculties of teacher
education (FKIPS) throughout the country and for training approximately 800
teacher educators. In addition, the project would provide funds for the
production of supplementary books, instructors' handbooks, training
manuals, teaching kits, other visual aids, library books and for monitoring
and evaluatioa activities. The school and teacher education program would
be implemented by the MOEC while the oitt-of-school activities would be
carried out by NFPCB in collaboration with MOEC (Directorate-General of
Non-formal Education and Sports). The coordination of the formal education
program would be doae by MOPE. By the end of the project, the MOEC would
assi.e full respoasibility for carrying out population education in formal
and non-formal educational streams. To ensure the transfer of full
responsibility for formal and out-of-school population education programs
to the HOEC, assurances were obtained from the GOI that a plan of action
for such transfer would be prepared through MOPE and submitted to the Bank
by December 31, 1985.
Service Delivery in Transmigration Areas
4 .1i7    There are curreatly about 1,271 transmigratioa resettlement uaits
(UPTs), each comprising 500 families or households, scattered over some 20
provinces. The resettled population therefore totals about 635,000 house-
holds, or about 3.3 million people (assuming an average of 5 persoas per
household). To date, NFPCB has aot been active in these trausmigratioa
areas, except for occasional safari campaigns, and the social infra-
structure inputs provided under GOI's transmigration program during the
initial five years of resettlement satisfy only the communities' basic
needs and need to be expanded and upgraded. Indeed, the GOI has recently
become quite concerned about health and nutrition conditions and the
quantity and quality of health, family planaing and nutrition services
available in these areas, not least because, under the eligibility criteria
for transmigration, all settlers are young eligible couples, most with 2-3
school-age children. In these circumstances, the GOI has decided to
strengthen health, family planning and nutrition services in transmigra-
tion areas during Repelita IV and because of its proven experience and
capability with village-level activities in difficult conditions, has
designated NFPCB as the coordinating agency for this specific purpose. In
view of the large number of UPTs ultimately to be covered and the limited
human and financial resources available, NFPCB, in consultation with the
Ministry of Transmigration, has prioritized the 20 transmigration receiving
provinces into three groups, based oa population size, numbers aad proximr-
ity of UPTs and their length of existence. On this basis, this component
of the Project would concentrate on the first and largest group,involving
about 335,500 households (or about 1.8 million people) in the 5 provinces
of Riau, Jambi, Bengkulu, South Sumatra and West Kalimantan.
4.18      Specifically, Village Contraceptive Distribution Centers (VCDCs)
would be set up in each UPT, including trained NFPCB fieldworkers, village
volunteers and informal community leaders, which would be the focal point
for organizing, coordinating and delivering integrated health, family
planaing and nutrition services and activities. These VCDCs would receive
technical guidance, support and supervision from local MOH health center



- 20 -
staff and transmigration program officers and staff, who would also be
trained accordingly. At the outset, local baseliae surveys would be
carried out to collect data oa health, family planning and nutrition
status, needs and services already available in the UPT coacerned and,
based on these surveys' findings, packages of service interventions and
activities would be developed for health, family planning and nutrition
service requirements. At the same time, existing MOH health center staff,
NFPCB fieldworkers, village volunteers and community leaders would receive
training in integrated service delivery from trainers selected by NFPCB,
MOH and HOT. The latter would themselves be trained at NFPCB's existing
provincial training ceaters. Special traimiog materials would be
developed, focussing on the transmigration setting, and local consulting
services would be procured for this purpose. In addition to funding the
training activities meationed above, the component would also finaace the
provision of various supplies and materials required for the NFPCB field-
workers concerned, iacluding simple operational manuals, IEC materials,
uniforms, about 600 bicycles for family planniig fieldworkers, and about 90
motorcycles for sub-district-level supervisors. NFPCB would provide family
planniag contraceptive materials from its own resources and the MOH would
similarly provide vaccines. Finally, the component would finance the
supply of nutriti:rn program inputs, such as weighing scales, home economics
demonstration class materials and feeding supplements for under-fives, with
a view to encouraging behavioral change among mothers for improved
nutrition.
4.19      The component would be coordinated, supervised and evaluated by
NFPCB's provincial-level staff, with the assistance of 50 man-months of
local and 20 man-months of foreign coasultants required for baseline survey
data analysis, training materials development, etc.  NFPCB, MOH acd MOT
would be responsible respectively for activities within their jurisdic-
tion. Assuming about 80% coverage, about 268,000 couples and about 8'5,000
children would be beneficiaries, directly or indirectly, of these
activities.
Research
4.20      In the earlier Bank-assisted projects, assistance was provided
for a variety of population and family planning research activities.  The
objectives of the support were to enhance the research capability of the
NFPCB and the Population Studies Center of the Institute for Social aad
Economic Research. To date, NFPCB has only limited capability for under-
taking operational research. Thus, under its recent reorganization, NFPCB
has set up three new research centers: for Family Planning Studies, Family
Planning Policy Development, and Biomedical and Human Reproduction. The
basic objective of all three centers is to provide operational policy and
research support to NFPCB's increasingly complex and dynamic activities.
As such, the principal focus of the Family Planning Studies and Family
Planning Policy Development Centers would be analyses, studies, and surveys
of an operations evalualicn natu.re, with emphasis on specific opportun±-
ties, problems and constraints facing the family planning program in
general or NFPCB in particular. The outcomes of such activities would be
the definition of new or modified operational policies, strategies and/or
programs, as appropriate. As far as the Biomedical and Human Reproduction
Research Center is conceraed, its main objective would be coordinating,



- 21 -
coatracting, and supervising specific research activities and projects to
be executed by other public or private scientific institutions, e.g.,
universities, teaching hospitals, research institutes, and individuals
throughout the couatry.
4.21      Against the above background, NFPCB's three aew research centers
require initial development support in the form of funds needed to finance
individual research projects, to be undertaken either by the ceaters them-
selves directly or in collaboratioa with other local or foreign institu-
tions. The Project also provides funds for traiaing of the three centers'
professional staff, in Indonesia and overseas; for local and foreign
technical assistance services; and for appropriate office facilities (to be
housed together with the new traiaing center). Accordingly, this component
of the Project would provide support for the physical facilities required,
24 man-months of foreign and 48 mar-months of local techaical assistance
services (for a total of 6 manr-years), 6 short-term local and about 9
graduate-level overseas training fellowships, and funds for research
studies. Assurances were obtained from the GOI that NFPCB's three research
centers would each develop by December 31, 1985 a program of research
activities and projects in accordance with a timetable and criteria
satisfactory to the Bank. In this connection, a provisional list of topics
to be included in this research program has already been ideatified and is
available in the Project file.  'n addition, assurances were obtained from
the GOI that (a) contraceptive prevalence and contraceptive continuation
rate surveys would be undertaken every two years by an appropriately
qualtified independent agency or agencies, in consultation with and funded
by.  FPCB through the Project, with the report of the first such survey
submitted to the Bank not later than March 31, 1986; (b) an analysis of
NFPCB medium- and long-term ficancial resource requirements would be
undertaken not later than December 31, 1986, under terms of refereace
acceptable to the Bank; and (c) a review of the achievements of the family
planning program and the long-term implementation strategy for the program
would be carried out by December 31, 1986 in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
Part B: Assisting the MOPE
4.22      The HOPE, established in 1983, is responsible for population
policy formulation and coordination of population activities. To enable it
to perform these fuactions effectively, the MOPE would like to build up its
capacity, as well as those of existing population research institutions
from which MOPE could draw assistance.
Indonesian Population Plan of Action
4.23      The International Population Confereace held in Mexico City in
August 1984 adopted a World Population Plan of Action, which inter alia
encourages individual countries to prepare national plans to guide their
acttvities over the next 15 years or so. The MOPE, working with other
government agencies, universities, and non-governmental agencies, plaas to
develop a Population Plan of Action for Indonesia to support the implemen-
tation of ongoing population activities in Repelita IV and, in particular,
to assist in the preparatioa of Repelitas V and VI (1989-99). Being a new



- 22 -
agency, the MOPE does not itself have the staff capacity to develop such
plan and this component of the Project would provide funds for about 216
man-months of local and 108 man-months of foreign consulting services (or a
total of 27 man-years) for this purpose.
Population Studies Centers
4.24      Indonesia's first demographic research institute was established
at the University of Indonesia In 1964, and a second shortly thereafter at
Gadjah Mada University in Yogyakarta. Since then, population studies
centers have been formally established at 10 regional universities4f
across the country. However, the quantum and quality of the research
conducted at these 10 centers is uneven, the main difficulty being the lack
of advanced, postgraduate training in demography in Indonesia. In line
with GOI's objective of adapting its population policies znd strategies to
the specific regional, cultural and ethnic needs of different areas of the
country, and as part of a long-term institutional development plan to
strengthen these centers to enable them to effectively carry out demo-
graphic research in their respective regions and to assist province-level
planning agencies (BAPPENAS), the Project would provide funds for 80 (120
man-years) fellowships for overseas training in demography at graduate
level and population studies, and funds for research. Since the adminis-
tration of these overseas fellowships would involve, in addition to MOPE,
10 different university administrat±ons and the Ministry of Education and
Culture, assurances vere obtained from the GOI that MOPE would prepare an
overall implementation plan, including selection criteria and a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank, and submit such plan to the Bank by December 31,
1985.
Non-Governmental Organizations
4.25      GOI's population policy recognizes the need to inform and educa-
tion the public about population issues so that indiv1duals and the com-
munities in which they live can eventually assume responsibility for
fertility and martality reduction, as well as other population-related
matters.  While NFPCB and MOH are the principal agencies for implementing
this policy, NGOs have an important role to play in this task, particularly
the dissemination of information about the country's population problems
and policies. NGOs work closely with the people and various communities at
local levels. Not only are they familiar with population needs and priori-
ties at these levels, but they also enjoy the trust and cooperation of the
people. Thus, they are effective instruments for carrying out develop-
mental activities at the community level, including population activities.
In an effort to harness their manpower resources for implementing popula-
tion activities, the GOI has decided to develop NCO capabilities so that
they can participate fully in government population-related programs. Such
collaboration between the government and NGOs is expected to contribute to
the acceleration of the achievement of demographic and other population-
related goals. To this end, support is provided under the Project for
training in population-related subjects of members of NGOs and for supply
4/   Riau, Andalas, Syah Xuala, Sriwijaya, Mulawarman, Lambung Mangkurat,
Tadulako, Udayana, Pattimura, and Cendrawasih Universities.



- 23 -
of training materials. The beneficiaries of this assistance are affiliated
to a confederation of NGOs known as FISKA. Its members include the
Indonesian Denographic Association, Indonesian Medical Association,
Indonesian Planned Parenthood AssocIation, Indonesian Transmigratron
Transmigration Pioneering Association, Indonesian Village ReLiance
Organization, and the Zero Population Growth Association. Under the
coordination and supervision of MOPE, the support provided in the Project
would enable these NGOs to train 300 of their leaders and to conduct
population-related activities.
V. PROJECT COSrS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01             The total project cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at
Rp 103.8 billion or US$94.40 million equivalent, of which US$41.4 mlulion
(44Z) is the foreign exchange component. Project costs are summarized in
Tables 5-1 and 5-2 below.
Table 5-1:  Total Project Cost by Expenditure Category
.RIPW!H 3iii:.ar   U 2:S  ' -                nta
____…   - --- ----------   txrtn  3m
Zxai r-eLsn -ta:  war  Fer,±an  taul r-£ ±a-t  -05:;
1. T"aESTiOT WST;
A.LAiD                           ;.6     -  3.o  :.:       -  _.:        -      4
3. 5l3 XR
- . DEEDC'J!II             13.1    :     . :4J    53    4.11.4     31
_. -CH:7TLC7I2&FEES          l.5   O.2  1.7  :3   -3. 1.5           .3
3. FuNIil2E MID flfF; E GIJF   l.    ;.5  2.4  1.7   3.5  3.         -       ;
h±-Tztai ;L:n cicS              :3.;   :.3 IS.&  :.:.    J. ::.;                2
Z. E3II!OT                       i.:   6.2  ¾9   3,3    .6  3.          63     11
a. O9ItLE                        :.4  :5.0 17.4  2.2  13.6 15.3        a3      20
- --% -:--- :S-.;z CE
£:;L 'MNS&TN!                  1.0     -  1.0  0.9      -  5.         -
4?a7R;:ATE X!NSI3SAII           -   3   3.4    - 3.2  3.1          1.00       4
5--lotal TEDVICAL ASSIST;1       1.0   3A  4.4  0.9   3.1  4.0          7       5
r. Th..IRIIIG
-. :NSRv:ME RAL.Ni           7?.1   0.0  7.!  6.4   0.0  6.4          0      3
2. 'J3EcJa - Lan;W3             -   ;.7  3.7    -   3.4  3.4        :)3      ;
3. L_X =--L SNIPS3            :.7      -   .   3.7      -  .:
-E.     'RAIKIE             ...     - :.:    3.       -  1.-        -
' TAUELiP!E  Z.:                       -                -  3. T, Z    -       4
,. LONAA a       _   -E        .2      -  xl   o2       -  9.7        -      I
:LZ-ri d: -r>-C;,               13.2   3.7 16.? 1:.O   3.4 !5.4         2      20
- 43.:,4.2   4-;.1  2.3  3.8   3.7  ?~.1                              4?      :0
;.:;EfS ;9_ ;lItf-:          2.3   l.i  3.4  :.'   5       .:      :7       4
-.  E : Ef.RA*Tz S ACT:'n:T:ES  ;.S   -  .a  1.7       -  0.         -      I
* .-i'.UFltZE ~5J! y;EP 3 F ^7i  ).S     -  i.;   3..        3.5
N        AN!@  - !-G D EnAT::N  ;.:   -  ;:.    :*        -
L. -.X-'E'  i*~ s3--:.-ERM1CAL  x-;.    !.5   -   -.'  -;.   -  ?.E   -
-:-i:-."t=!iEE 32-'-               J'.:  38.3 &.3  42.J  34.S --.          :      '
'Y.5;-3. ~_. ::olerCts         i1.3   0.5  :8   :.           *,-               2
-'::' ':e z.fl;         l        Se fC:ff ,... .3 v., :a4   3.,   :.i z .;;
3;1E1 :;_  SS                      :.      .5 109Z3  4. 4.4 =j34          J
…-------------- -----------------…-------------------…



- 24 -
Table 5-2: Total Project Cost by Objective
CRUPIAN Billion)   (tUiS Million)          I Total
Z Fareign  Base
Local Foreisn Total Local Foreisn Total Exchante   Costs
A. STRENGTHENING NFPC
1. FIELD OPERATIONS DEVELaO'ET                       14.2  15.2 29.4  12.9   13.8 26.7       52      34
2. STAFF DEELOIET                                     7,7   5.9 13.6  7.1   5.3 12.4          43     16
3. INFRtATION . EMOCATION AND CMHIIIUJICATION         2.8   11.0 13.9  2.5   0.1 12.6        g0      16
4. FOPULATION EIDIATION                               7.0     -  7.0  6.3      -  6.3         -      8
'. SERUICE DEIVERY IN TRWENIGRATION AREAS             9.1   0.4  7.5  8.3   0.3  9.6          4      11
6. RESEARCH                                           2.6   0.7  3.3  2.3   0.7  3.0          22      4
Sub-Total STREHGTHENING NFPCB                          43.4  33.2 76.6  39.4  30.2 69.6         43      90
B. ASSISTING NINISTRY OF POPULATION AND ENINRONMENT
1. INDONESIAN POPULATION PLAN OF ACTION               1.0   1.2  2.2  0.9   1.1  2.0         56       3
2. POPULATION STUDY CENTERS                           2.3   3.9  6.2  2.1   3.5  5.6          63      7
3. SUFPT TONON - GOV6E ATL ORGANIZATIONS              0.5     -  0.5  0.5       -  0.5        -       1
Sub-Total ASSISTING MINISTRY OF PPULATION ANM ENIPRONIENT  3.8   5.1  8.9  3.5   4.6  9.1       57      10
Total BASEINE COSTS                                      47.2  38.3 85.5  42.9  34.8 77.7         45    100
Physical Continsencies                                  1.3   0.5  1.8   1.2   0.5  1.7        29       2
Price Contingmncies                                     9.8   6.7 16.5  8.9   6.1 15.0         41      19
Total MOJECT COSTS                                       59.3  45.5 103S  53.0  41.4 94.4         44    122
5.02          Base  costs  refer  to March  1985 prices.   Civil  works  costs  are
based on BAPPENAS guidelines, which have been reviewed by the Bank and
found reasonable. Building space allowances conform to GOI requirements,
are functional, and appropriate for the Project's objectives. Estimates
for  equipment  are based  on equipmert  Lists which  are  reasonable  in  scale
and  cost.   Technical  assistance  costs  include a  total  of  299 man-months of
foreign consultarts and 545 man-months of local consultants. Graduate-
level training includes 121 overseas fellowships, averaging $36,650 each
(for an 18-month course), and local fellowships averaging $9,600 each. The
costs of in-service training courses are based on prevailing GOI local
travel and per diem allowances.
5.03          Physical  contingencies  represent  10% of  civil  works  and  2% of
total base costs, and price contingencies about 19% of total base costs.
Price contingencies are calculated on base costs plus physical contingen-
cies, and assume the following annual foreign and local inflation rates:
1985         1986         1987         1988         1989
%            %                         %            x
Foreign                       5.0          7.5           8.0         8.0          8.0
Local                         8.0          8.0          8.0          8.0          8.0



- 25 -
B. Financing Plan
5.04      The proposed Bank loan of US$46.0 million would finance 60% of
total Project cost less the cost of vehicles (amounting to $18.2 million,
including price contingencies), on which the GOI has imposed an import ban
and which the GOI will finance and purchase through local procurement.  The
loan will cover the total foreign exchange component ($25.8 million) except
the foreign exchange cost of the vehicles to be provided by the GOI, and
$20.2 million or 38% of local costs. The balance of US$48.4 million would
be financed out of annual GOI budget appropriations.
5.05      In order to ensure the prompt implementation of the Project,
assurances were provided during negotiations that budgetary allocations for
project expenditures in 1985/86 have already been made.
Table 5-3: Financing Plan
US$ Million Equivalent
GOI
Project Element           NFPCB   HOPE          IBRD         Total
Land Acquisition                   3.5                              3.5
Civil Works                        -       -          23.2         23.2
Equipment, Vehicles and           26.1    0.3          11.0        37.4
Materials
Technical Assistance
and Training                     5.8    5.7         11.8         23.3
Surveys and Studies                3.0    4.0           -           7.0
TOTAL                   38.4   10.0          46.0         94.4
5.06      Incremental Recurrent Costs.  The annual incremental recurrent
costs generated directly by the Project when fully operational would amount
to about Rp 3.0 billion, representing 0.4% of NFPCB's total projected
1985/86-1988/89 expenditures. These additional costs, mainly for vehicle
operating and maintenance expenditureo, would not coastitute a constraiat
on NFPCB's budget.
C. Procurement
5.07      Civil Works.  The contract for NFPCB's new national training
center would be awarded oa the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. For the 84 district offices,
past experience in Indonesia has shown that such contracts, averaging



- 26 -
$100,000 equivalent, do not attract foreign bidders unless grouped into
very large packages. Since this would not be feasible under this Project
because of their geographical dispersion, contracts for district offices
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
(LCB), which are satisfactory to the Bank.
5.08      Vehicles.  Vehicles5/ costing $18.2 million (including conting-
encies) would be financed and7purchased by the GOI using local procedures
and are included in the "other column in Table 5-4. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the GOI would provide the required
vehicles in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank and shown
in Annex 9.
5.09      Equipment.  Most of the equipment and furniture (medical, office,
audiovisual, training), amounting to US$13.3 millioa, is diverse, special-
ized and would be required for facilities and/or services spread throughout
Indonesia. As it would be difficult to package this equipment in lots
suitable for ICB, it would be procured, as was done in the previous popula-
tion projects, through competitive bidding advertised locally under pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank. Foreign suppliers, who would not be
excluded from bidding, are well represented in Indonesia and there are
sufficient suppliers to ensure adequate competition. Small off-the shelf
packages costing less than $50,000 and limited to a total of $400,000
equivalent would be procured locally through prudent shopping, after
receiving three price quotations.
5.10      Materials and Supplies.  Most instructional and audiovidual
materials, expected to represent about US$9.0 million of total cost and
consisting of textbooks, slides and posters, would be produced locally.
Printing services would be procured through LCB from private printing
firms. Books and instructional materials would be procured uader contracts
awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the guidelines.
5.11      Technical Assistance.  In total, the Project would provide about
844 man-months (70 man-years) of consultant services to carry out studies
and individual projects. The services required are as follows: CB radio
feasibility study (2 man-years); curriculum development and educational
technology for experiential training, development of training techniques
for trainers, media educational technology, monitoring and evaluation,
program maaagement traiaing (16.5 man-years); information, education, and
communication (5 manryears); baseline surveys and monitoring and evaluation
in transmigration component (5.8 man-years); research (6 man-years);
Population Plan of Action (27 man-years); and preparation of architectural
designs (8 man-years).  It is expected that about 64% of these would be
provided by local consultants.
5/   Consisting of 170 minibuses, 87 mobile information units, 6,550
motorcycles, and 48,200 bicycles.



- 27 -
5.12      Contract Review.  Civil works contracts and each contract for
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. All contracts below this level would
be subject to post award review by the Bank. Contracts for items to be
procured through ICB (US$9.2 million) would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of documentation and award recommendations.
5.13      Procurement arrangements for the Project are summarized in the
table below:
Table 5-4: Type of Procurement
(In US$ Millions)
Type of Procurement           Total Cost
Including
Project Element         ICB      LCE      Other     N.A.  Contingencies
Land Acquisition                -        -       -          3.5       3.5
C-  )   (-  )   C-  )    (C-  )    C-  )
Civil Works                    9.2      14.0     -          -        23.2
(9.2)   (14.0)   (-  )    C -  )    (23.2)
Equipment, Vehicles and        -        18.8    18.6        -        37.4
Materials                  ( -  )   (10.5)   (0.4)    ( -  )    (10.9)
Techaical Assistance,
Training, Surveys,           -         -       -         30.3      30.3
Analyses and Studies       ( -  )   ( -  )   C-  )    (11.9)    (11.9)
TOTAL               9.2     32.8    18.6       33.8      94.4
{ 9.2)   (24.5)   (0.4)    (11.9)    (46.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts that would be
financed by the Bank loan.
D. Disbursements
5.14      Disbursements of the proposed loan of US$46.0 million would be
made as follows:
Category I  :  100% of the cost of civil works (US$22.0 million).
Category II : 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
materials and equipment; 90% of local expenditures
ex-factory and 65% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally, excluding support to NGOs,
(US$10.3 million).



- 28 -
Category III:  100% of the cost of consultants' services and overseas
fellowships (US$8.4 million).
Category IV : 20% of the cost of local training, excludiog support to
NGOs (US$3.0 million).
Category V  : Unallocated amount of US$2.3 million.
The estimated schedule of disbursement is given in Table 5-5 below.
Table 5-5: Schedule of Disbursements
(US$Millions)
Perceatage Disbursed
IBRD Fiscal                                               by Year
Year and          Semester    Cumulative       Estimate for    All PHN
Semester            -- US$ millions -          this project    projects
1986
1st              0.4            0.4               0.1            1.0
2ad               1.1           1.5               2.0            4.0
1987
1st              3.0            4.5               9.6            7.0
2nd               3.7           8.2              17.4           12.0
1988
1st              5.5           13.7              29.0           17.0
2nd              7.4           21.1              45.0           29.0
1989
1st              8.3           29.4              63.0           31.0
2nd              9.1           38.5              83.0           39.0
1990
1st              4.4           42.9              93.0           92.0
2nd               3.1          46.0             100.0           56.0
5.15      Disbursement Profile.  The loan is expected to be fully disbursed
in five years. Although this proposed schedule is substantially faster
than the average for all PHN projects to date, it is consistent with recent
experience under the Second and Third population projects (Loans 1472- and
1869-IND) which, except for loan savi ngs generated by rupiah devaluations,
were implemented and disbursed basically in accordance with appraisal
estimates.
5.16      Documentation of Expenditure.  Withdrawal applications would be
supported by full documentation, except for expenditures on training and
materials, which would be reimbursed against statements of expenditures



- 29 -
certified by the NFPCB/MOPE project officers concerned. Documentation for
these statements would be retained by the NFPCB and MOPE and be available
for review by the Bank during Project supervision missions. To facilitate
Bank processing of disbursement applications, a minimum level for
withdrawal applications of US$100,000 has been set for those involving
statements of expenditures.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.17      The Project executing agencies (NFPCB and MOPE) would prepare and
maintain Project accounts in accordance with sound accounting procedures.
Accounts and documentation supporting the statements of expenditure would
be maintained separately and would be readily available centrally for
review by visiting Bank missions. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the GOI that: (a) accounts, statements of expenditures, and
financial statements for each fiscal year would be prepared and audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (b) certified copies of
the audited accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year,
together with the auditor's report, would be furnished to the Bank as soon
as possible, but not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year.
VT.  PROJECT ORiGAIZATION,  NACEKE1IT AND  KI HMEHENTATION
A. Project Organization and Management
6.01      The NFPCB and the MOPE would be responsible for execution of
Parts A and B respectively of the Project, as follows: the NFPCB would
itself implement the field operations development, staff development, IEC,
research, and population education components (the latter in consultation
with the MOEC) and coordinate implementation of the transmigration compo-
nent with the MOH and MOT; and the MOPE would implement the population plan
of action, the population studies component and the support to NGOs. The
NFPCB would establish a Steering Group for Part A of the Project consisting
of representatives of the MOEC, MOH, Ministry of Home Affairs, MOI,
Ministry of Religious Affairs, MOT, MOPE and NFPCB to coordinate implemen-
tation of its six components. This group would be chaired by NFPCB's
Chairman. The MOPE would establish a Steering Group for Part B of the
Project consisting of representatives of MOEC, MOPE, the State Ministry of
Research and Technology, the Ministry of Manpower, NFPCB and the Central
Bureau of Statistics, to be presided over by the Assistant Minister for
Population of MOPE. The establishment of these two Steering Groups would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
6.02      Past experience with three previous population projects has
confirmed that the assignment of sufficient numbers of appropriate staff is
essential for timely implementation of civil works. To ensure proper
management and supervision of the civil works component of this Project, a
staff of at least 17 persons would be required: 2 engineers in charge, I
sen.or engineer, 4 engineers, 4 building technicians, ard 6 supporting
staff. Except for the senior engineer, who was hired by NFPCB as a
consultant for the Third Project, and the four englneers seconded to NFPCB



- 30 -
by the Ministry of Public Works under the Third Project, all the other
staff are available within NFPCB. The GOI delegation confirmed during
negotiations that local consultant architects had been selected and
approved by SEKNEG. Their appointment, including those of che 17 persons
specified above, would be conditions of loan effectiveness.
B. Implementation
6.03      The Project would be implemeated over the five-year period
September 1985 to September 1990. A project implementation schedule is
given in Annex 6. As in the earlier Bank-assisted projects, monitoring
progress of Part A of the Project would be the responsibility of the
Project Coordinator, assisted by the Deputy Chairman for Supervision and
Control and the Bureau Chief for Reporting and Recording; and of Part B,
the Assistant Minister of MOPE. Both NFPCB and MOPE would prepare
quarterly progress reports and forward them to the Bank not more than eight
weeks after the end oi each quarter. Assurances were obtained during
negotia-tions that the NFPCB and MOPE would submit quarterly progress
reports to the Bank accordingly; and that, six months after the closing
date, the GOI would submit a project completion report to the Bank.
6.04      The land for the proposed training center has already been
acquired. The Project would require 84 new sites for district offices, of
which 30 would be needed during the first year of implementation (1985/
86). The GOI completed all actions necessary to acquire these 30 sites
before loan negotiations and funding for this has been provided in the
1985/86 government budget. As the actual release of funds for these sites
could only occur after the start of the new fiscal year on April 1, 1985,
it was agreed that acquisition of the 30 sites would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. Furthermore, assurances were obtained during aegotiations
that acquisition of 25 additional sites would occur not later than December
31, 1985, and the remaining 29 sites no later than December 31, 1986 and
satisfactory evidence of such acquisition would be furnished to the Bank.
Architectural drawings for the district offices built under the Third
Population Project (Ln. 1869-IND) would be available for the proposed
Project, subject to modifications being made to enlarge the size of the
offices to accommodate the increased number of staff. The architectural
consultants will prepare designs for the new NFPCB training center and will
supervise construction of the district offices. The terms of reference for
consulting services required and terms of reference for studies would be
submitted to the Bank for prior review. A unit in NFPCB responsible for
implementing the fellowship program is in place.
VIIZ PROJECT BENEFI S AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
7.01      Given the Project's institutional development objectives, it
would be difficult, if not impossible, to estimate its direct contribution
to or impact on the reduction of fertility. However, the physical and
human resource investments included in Part A of the Project, specifically
its field operations, staff training, IEC, and population education



- 31 -
components would be an important contribution towards reducing the CBR.
Furthermore, the Project would build a base for further strengthening the
program to achieve the desired reduction in fertility.
7.02      In addition, the research comnpone.t of Part A and the Indonesian
Plan of Action and population studies centerc components of Part B would
directly help NFPCB and MOPE respectively to develop the increasingly
diverse and innovative population and family planning policies, strategies,
and activities that would be required to reduce further Indonesia's rate of
population growth. Finally, through the service delivery component of Part
A, about 268,000 couples and about 805,000 children in transmigration
resettlement areas would benefit from integrated family planning, health,
and nutrition services. In addition, the population education component
would reach about 15,800 principals and teachers in government and private
schools, and 85,000 tutors, supervisors and facilitators of out-of-school
learning centers. Furthermore, about 87 family planning trainers would
receive advanced training Which would result in improved staff training.
B. Project Risks
7.03      Indonesia's NFPCB is now internationally recognized as one of the
most effective government family planning organizations in the world, owing
inter alia to the high degree of political support it enjoys, its semi-
autonomous institutional status, and the calibre of the managerial and
operational staff that it has been able to recruit. It has also attracted
and maintained the support and confidence of the principal external aid
agencies involved in population and family planning, including the Bank,
whose experience with three previozs loans has been satisfactory. In the
circumstances, the Project's risks in terms of physical implementation may
be considered minimal.
7.04      As far as the population and family planning program itself is
co0nerned, the main obvious risk is that, despite the proven experience of
the NFPCB, attainment of NFPCB's demographic goals couli be delayed, which
in turn would necessitate a review of program strategies and requirements.
To this end, such a review is proposed in para. 4.21. Another risk is that
effective field coordination among the different implementing agencies,
particularly between the KOH and the NFPCB, may not be fully achieved. The
role of MOPE in coordinating overall population policy :;d activities is
expected to mitigate these risks.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS
8.01      At loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  The NFPCB would carry out a feasibility study to define the need
for and appropriate specifications of CB radios before their
procurement, and this study would be carried out in accordance
with terms o. reference acceptable to the Bank. The recommenda-
tions of the study would be furnished to the Bank for commenat no
later than April 30, 1986. (para. 4.04).



- 32 -
(b) The NFPCB would carry out a comprehensive evaluation of existing
training programs, courses and activities leading to the
definition of a new training strategy for Repelita IV and beyond,
including the development of revised curricula and new training
materials; and the results of this assessment would be made
available to the Bank by June 30, 1986. (para. 4.08).
(c) All NFPCB staff selected for ovecseas graduate-level training
under the staff development component would have previously
completed the training in experiential, field-based training
methods; (para. 4.09).
(d) The NFPCB would furnish to the Bank for comment, by December 31,
1985, an IEC strategy plan, and, thereafter, carry out such plan,
taking the Bank's comments into account (para. 4.12).
(e) A population education plan of action to ensure the transfer of
responsibility for formal and out-of-school population education
programs to the MOEC would be prepared through MOPE and submitted
to the Bank by December 31, 1985 (para. 4.16).
Cf)  The NFPCB's three research centers would each develop, by
December 31, 1985, a program of research activities and projects
in accordance with a timetable and criteria satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 4.21).
(g) The NFPCB would furnish to the Bank every two years by March 31,
cmmencing on March 31, 1986, a report on contraceptive
prevalence and continuation rate surveys (para. 4.21).
(h) The NFPCB would carry out a review of the achievements of the
family planning program and the long-term implementation strategy
for such program, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank and submit the results to the Bank by
December 31, 1986 (para. 4.21).
(i)  The NFPCB would carry out, by December 31, 1986, an analysis of
its mediumr and long-term financial resource requirements under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.21).
(J) The MOPE would prepare an overall plan for administration of the
population study centers' overseas fellowships, including student
selection criteria and submit such a plan to the Bank by December
31, 1985 (para 4.24).
(k)  The NiFPCB would provide the required vehicles in accordance with
a timetable acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.08).
(1)  The NFPCB would acquire all land and rights in respect of land
for 25 sites by December 31, 1985, and the remaining 29 sites by
December 31, 1986 (para. 6.04).



- 33 -
8.02      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) The NFPCB would establish a Steering Group to coordinate Part A
of the Project, consisting of representativzs of MOEC, MfH, the
Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Information, the
Ministry of Religious Affairs, the MDT, the HOPE and NFPCB, to be
presided over by the NFPCB Chairman (para. 6.01).
(b) The MOPE would establish a Steering Group to coordinate Part B of
the Project, consisting of representatives of MOEC, MOPE, the
State Ministry of Research and Technology, the Ministry of
Manpower, NFPCB and the Central Bureau of Statistics, to be
presided over by the Assistant Minister for Population of HOPE
(para. 6.01).
(c) The NFPCB would assign qualified staff in adequate numbers to
manage and supervise the ci 41 works being carried out under the
Project; such staff would include two engineers-in-charge, one
senior engineer, four engineers, four building technicians and
six support staff (para. 6.02).
(d) The NFPCB would appoint local consultant architects (para. 6.02).
(e) The NFPCB would acquire the 30 sites for district offices
required for the first year of implementation, including the
actual release of the funds needed to acquire these sites (para.
6.04).
8.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the Project
herein proposed would constitute a suitable basis for a loan of US$46.0
million at the standard variable rate, for a term of 20 years, including a
5-year grace period. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 34 -
ANNE I
Page 1 of I
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
POPULMAfON DISTRIEITION BY PROVINCE, 1980
Percentage          PopuLation       Percentage
distribution        denhixy 1980    distribution
of population       (persons per       of land
Province/Region                    1980               sq.km.)           area
(S)                                  (:)
Dsrah Isclaeva Aceh                 1.77                  47                2.88
North Sumatra                       5.67                 L18                3.69
West Sumatra                        Z.31                  68                2.59
Riau                                L.47                  23                4.93
Iambi                               0.98                  32                2.34
South Sumatra                       3.14                  65                5.40
emngkulu                           0.52                   36                1.10
T..mpung                            3.14                 139                1.74
Suamtra                         L9.00                   59               24.67
DMM Jakarta                         4.41              11,028                0.03
vest Java                          18.61                 596                2.41
Central Java                      17.20                  742                1.78
D. I. Yogyakarta                    1.87                 868                0.17
ast Java                          19.79                  609                2.50
Java                            61.88                  691                6.89
___t KaUmntan                      1.68                   17                7.65
Central  al-stttan                  1.85                   6                7.05
South Talimacan                    1.40                   55                1.96
Easc r  aimanaa                    0.83                    6               1.55
Kalluantan                       4.56                   1Z               28.11
North Sulawesi                     1.43                  111                0.99
Cencral Sulawesi                   0.87                   18                3.63
South Sulawesi                     4.11                   83                3.79
Southeast Sulavesi                 0.64                   34                1.44
Sulavesi                         7.05                   55                9.85
BJll                               1.67                 444                 0.29
Wesr Nusa Tenggara                 1.85                  135                1.05
East Nusa Tenggara                 1.86                   57                2.49
Maluku                             0.96                   19                3.88
trian Jaya                         0.79                    3              21.99
LIdonesia                        100.0                   77              100.0 0a
Source: Cantral Bureau of Statistics
a/ Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of I
INDONESIA
FOURTE POPULATION PROJECT
GROWJH RATES BY PROVINCE, 1961-80
Growth rate              Growth rate
Provinces                        1961-71                  1971-80
Daerab Iscimewa Aceh                       Z.14                     2.93
bort:h Sumatra                             2.96                     2.60
Wsc S-tra                                  1.82                     2.21
Riau                                       2.99                     3.11
Jambi                                      3.25                     4.07
South. Sumacra                             Z.21                     3.32
BengkuLu                                   2.55                     4.3?
Laupung                                    5.82                     5.77
DKI Jakarta                                5.09                     3.93
;bst Java                                  2.05                     2.66
Cencral Java                               1.70                     1.64
D.t. yagyalarta                            1.02                     1.10
East Java                                  1.55                     1.49
Wisc Kallauran                             2.07                     2.31
Cencral Kal±ancan                         3.60                     3.43
South Ka Ifancaa                           1.44                     2.16
Eas: Kalimantan                            2.92                     5.73
Sorth Sulawesi                             2.79                     2.31
Cencral Sulavesi                           2.82                     3.86
Souch Sulawesi                             1.37                     1.74
Southeasc Sulawesi                         2.47                     3.09
Bali                                       1.74                     1.69
iest c usa Tenggara                        2.00                     2.36
asc Nusa Tenggara                          1.55                     1.95
Ma1uku                                     3.24                     2.88
Irian Jaya                                 2.04                     2.67
Indonesia                                2.10                     2.32
Source: 1961-71 and 1971-80: 1980 Cesus of Population.



INDONESIA
FOURTH POPUIATION PROJECT
POPULATION PROJECTIONS WITH NRR * 1 BY 2010
(in 000)
A!'                 6960         fees          1990         19it         200o         2005      0 101L 2015                    2020         2021
0 4             11469         11576        12027         12061        12102        11232         11216        11312        11634         11741
* f             10f9 IOOS la"              111t          11648        11794        $Ilss        IGGI I16     111X          Mae*         loss
10:14             9033        10S2 2        10076        11074         11SS         11M1l         11120        11615        11121         11233
15 1              7419         6903         10301        10751         10969        11501         1162135      1110         los         110711
20 14             I ISO        730J          4737         10230        10604        10135         11320        1130        1169         11410
25  9             1149         s9o"          7115         664          10044        10441         100I9        11251        11424         11MGM
20 34              300         50C00          041         *919          402          9112         A0101        10111         11146        11332
39                361J,73      411           41N2 1695                  6124         6243          9722        10162         1044         11034
4044 010                        3711         4002          4691         1133         6616          6067         9141         9991         10303
4149              3032          3343         3534          3830         4s11         1345          6454         1141         9310          9716
101 4             2412          2609         3121          3321         3624         4294          5106         6190          7554         5993
Ss $19            19            2235         2559          2161         3049         1264          4007         471?7         S82          7141
60.64             1919          1611         1'a4          2215         2f14         2743          1071         31i26         4355         S334
6169               970          1134         3323          1620         15           ?149          7 35         7W',          3011         3790
70 74               669          71?          *47          1000         123           14!9         1611          1839         2061         2511
710               713           722          111          16          1031         6177          1553        14e          2 117         2431
101.         72741         60133        19140         97104        105719       113629       120142        177691       134611        141315
0 4             1103S         11241        11611         11612        11700        11421         lose?        10947         11196        11029
.9              100ot1        10402        61063         11360        11441        11512         1120         10197         10l60        11145
10 14             1S54         9s91         10411        10716         11771        11362         11410        1121s         Was61        10os
:o .1             7111 I4                    949         10311         10696        11202         11322        1421          11220        10740
20 24              290          1427         1211        9s10          10759        10593         1111:        11751         11365        11176
2 29             1S44          6129          7274         8144          9169        10135         1041         1002S         11M?$        11307
30 34             4464         1333          6371          7139         8006         9434         10016        zlUl?         10939        11101
21 39             4072         43415         :119         622           69"          7112          9301         9699         10216        lO1
40 44             2163          3927         4209         5041          6000         6645          7733         9160          9711        10173
14 4132                        3120          3710          4068         4198         1919          6614         7133          1991         912
9014              2134          2972         3321          3663          2901        4720          9724         6484          7367         1771
Ss 19             626           2312         2171          3153         3410         3103          4491         S473          6222         7091
6064              1497          1731         2127          2521         2092          3141         3436         4191          5133         1661
*.69              6093          1273          I?7                                     2S41  2213  2s2  2199     3076          3760         461
70I74              670          66           1006          1111         1491          160          2106         2330          2511         2205
790               619          94           1016          1164         1j61         1721          2136         2166          3001         241213
101A          73600         81479        69762         91021        106211       113910       121010        127164       134619        141306
10TTAL Nf    140341       162212        171902       195111       211994        227611       241153        211116       269306       212520
astatio INDlC^lO(t%
aIlso"  IIIA I3O3                                                                22 6         20.0          1*            I n          17.2
0alai  RA11                $2 0          21  4        10.1          .13            a 4          7. 9         7 7          7.6           7.6
RAVI OF MI!. INC.          2.06          1.96         1 75          1 62         1.42          1.21         1 to          I 01         0.97
WN" PATE                2.06         1.96          1.1t         1.62          1.42         1.21          1.11         1.05         0. 7
VOAL6. FIIILIVW           4.349        3.096         3.260        2.911         2.621        2.317         2 203        2 172        2.141         S I
am6                       2.121         1.900 ).649                1.414        1.262        1.130         1.071        1.040         1.046
Nis                       1.671        1.57         1.29          1.247        1.146        1.033         1 00'        I 000         1.000
I0  - NILE                110.9         97.4          64.9         73.9         63.1 4.I                  46.0          39.          3.1          0
I0  - rEAIE               02.0         60.7          69.s         19.2         50.2          42 2         31.2          29.3         24.9 
Urn   BOt 011561A         102.8         69.2          71.2         G4.1          14.I         46 3         40.1          34.3         26.9 
*101      IE              62.00        14.49         9.64         59.12         61.27        23 25        65.03         66.69        66.07
610)   FINALI               . to0       97.61        60.40        62.61         £1.01        67.11        696           70.16        72.02
1101   601H sells         so.14 "          11.o6                  60.91        62.62          6.14        ::.9          Go 13        69. 91
Source: My T. Vu, World Bank, World Population Projections, 1984.



INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
POPULATION  PROJECTIONS W1TH NRR * 1 by 2010
(in OOOs)
AGE GROUP          190        2005          2030         2055         2080        210a         2130         2155
MAL ES
0-4            11461         11832        11615        11627        11595        11591       11599        11599
5*9            10657        11185        tt6U4        11672        11559        11571        11595        11597
10 -4            9033        11716        11528        11483        11532        11572        11594        1S196
15 -i            7459        11501        11192        11416        11527        11571        11591        11592
20-24            6156        10835         11014       11432         11534        11560        11581       11585
25-29            5149        10448         11403        11506        11519        11531       11564        11576
30-34            4300         9183         11415        11493        11451        11416        11547       11568
35-39            3873         8243         11230        11293        11331        11441        11533       11559
40-44            3530         6656        10899        l089s         11221        11408        11516       11544
4Js49            3022         5345         10106       10623         11161        11364        11473       11502
505-4            2472         4294         9450        10793         11074        11235        11365        11407
55-59            1859         3364         1541         10485       10750        10929         11138        11208
60-64             1395        2743         6575         9621         10029       10378         10735       10131
65-69             970         2149         4674          8409        8866         9548         10067       10187
70-74             639          1451        3069         6563         7427         8344         8961         9081
765              713         1277         2931         1114        11743        13815        15883        16417
TOlAL         72745       113629       147494       167401       174305       171420       183744       184924
F EMALES5
0-4            11035        11425         11220        11130        11002        11062        11059       11060                         1
5-9            10101        11521        11249          loc0       11057        11056        11059       1f059
10-14            8554        11313        11126        11019        11041                                                               Li0o7  0  1t060
15-Il            7577        11202        10835        10975        11048        11065        11062        11059
20-24            6690        $0593        10707         11022        11074        11068        11060       11057
25-29            5414         10135        11130        11127        11080        11055        11054       11054
30-34            4484         9434         11248        11149        11034        11026        11046        11060
35-39            4072         7572         11033        10992       10939        10997         11043        11045
40-44            3633         6846        10747        10649        10160        10982         11039        11039
41-49            3t39         5919         10026        10436       10842         10966        11017       11014
50-54            2534         4720         9400         10628        10833        10193       10953        10957
55-59            1920         3703         1474        10564         10663        10700        10826       10154
60-64             1497        3141         6718         9970        10199        10378        10611        10675
66-69             1093        2552         5355          9076        9350         9867        10250         10321
70-74             870          1101        3293         7489         8263         9047         9533         9604
75#               569         1721        4197         10516       15094        17420        19501        20083
TOTAL         73600       113911       147447       167903       174460       178646       192177       192992
TOTAL O*f   146345        227611       294941       335304       348761       358067       365921       367916
RELATED INDICATORS                                                                                                          0
OlRtH RATE                28. I        II. t        14.6         :3.4         12.9         12.6         12.4
DEATH RATE                10.4          7.7          9.4         11.6         11.9         11.7         12.2
OOUTH RATE                t.77         1.04         0.51         0.16         0.11         0.09         0.02
1S- BOTH SEXES            76.6         35.3         16.3         10.6          7.2          4.3          3 9
10)  - 60TH SEXES        51.86        63.52        73.94        76.43        78.60        10.66        80.95
TOTAL FEaIILIIY          3.347        2.192  .    2.099         2.079        2.069        2.059        2.058
Source: My T. Vu, World Bank, World Population Projections, 1984.



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
FOURTH PROPULATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF NFPCB DISTRICT OFFICES
Province           District
I.   RIAU               1. Kampar
2. Bengkalis
3. Kepulauan Riau
4.  Indragiri Rulu
5.  Indragiri Ilir
6.  Kotamadya Pakan Baru
II.   JAMBI              7.  Batang Hari
8.  Bungo Tebo
9. Kerinci
10. Tanjung Tabung
11.  Bangko Salalangun
12. Kotamadya Jambi
III.   BENGKULU          13.  Bengkulu Utara
14. Bengkulu Selatan
15. Rejang Lebong
16. Kotamadya Bengkulu
IV.   K&LIMANTAN TENGAR 17. Kapuas
18. Barito Utara
19. Barito Selatan
20. Kotawaringin Barat
21. Kotawaringin Timur
22.  Kahayan Hulu
23. Katingan
24. Barito Timur
25. Murung Raya
26. Kotamadya Palangkaraya
V.   KALIMANTAN TIMUR  27.  Kutai
28. Berau
29. Buluagan
30. Tanah Pasir
31. Kotamadya Balikpapan
32. Kotamadya Samarinda



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
VI.   SULAWESI TENGAH   33.  Toli Toli
34. Donggala
35. Posso
36. Banggai
Province             District
VII.    SULAWESI TENGGARA 37. Kolaka
38. Kendari
39.  Muna
40.  Buton
VIII.   MALUKU                41.  Maluku Utara
42.  Maluku Teogah
43.  Maluku Tenggara
44. Halmahera Tengah
45.  Kotamadya Ambon
IX.   NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR  46.  Sumba Timur
47.  Sumba Barat
48.  Manggarai
49.  Ngada
50. Endeh
51. Sikka
52.  Flores Timur
53.  Kupang
54.  Timor Tengah Selatan
55.  Timor Teagah Utara
56.  Belu
57. Alor
X.   IRIAN JAYA            58.  Jayapura
59.  Cendrawasih Teluk
60.  Japen
61.  Manokwari
62. Sorong
63. Fak - Fak
64.  Merauke
65.  Paniai
66.  Pegunungan Jayawiyaya



-40-
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
Province                  District
XI.    TIMOR TIMUR           67.  Dili
68.  Baucau
69.  Manatto
70.  Lautem
71.  Viqueque
72.  Ainaro
73.  Manfahi
74.  Covalima
75.  Ambeno
76.  Bobonaro
77.  Liquica
78.  Ermera
79.  Aileu
XII.    DKI JAKARTA           80.  DKI Jakarta Utara
81. DKI Jakarta Pusat
82.  DKI Jakarta Selatan
83.  DKI Jakarta Timur
84.  DKI Jakarta Barat



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Number of Consultant Months
Components                           Foreign      Local
A. Strengthening NFPCB Delivery
1.  Field Operations Development                      24           -
2.  Staff Development                                123          75
3.  lnformation/Education/Communication                -          60
4.  Service Delivery in Transmigration Areas          20          50
5.  Research                                          24          48
B. Assisting Ministry of Population and Environment
1.  Indonesia Population Plan of Action              108         216
c. Architectural Consultants                               -          96
Totals                299        545



INDONESIA
PROPOSED FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT: CIVIL WORKS
IM4PLEKENTATION SCHEDULE
Year I           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5
_  2 -3   4          2   3   4   1   2   3   4  _    2   3   4  _    2 3 4
_                           1 -1 L.L  L IW  L L L L L 1 L 1 1  iL IL L 11  L L
National Training and
Research Center
Land Acquisition
Soil Investigations
Designt
Working Drawing
Tenders
Cons truct ion                                               _
NFPCB District Offices
Land Acquisition                          ..  .  U EU
Soil Investigations                      m1..   urn...    .   * .
Design
Working Drawing
Tenders                      ||...                           .     .........              .....
Construction                   I_
a'



INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT: OTHER COKPONENTS
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year I            Year 2             Year 3            Year 4             Year 5
_ 1    2            234   1                  2          1    2   3   4  _    2   3   4
__________~ LWlW 1 l    L 1_   L 11 L L   l l 1 L L1.  1  L
Equipment
Bid Documents
Bidding Period
Bid Evaluation
Contract Award
Delivery
Consulting Services                      _          _                                         -    - _ 
Fellowships
Local Training
Consulting Services
Selection
Appointment
Execution-
e.P
04
N



- 44 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 Indonesia Family Planning Program: Orientation Booklet, USAID,
Jakarta, June 1984
A.2  Basic Information on the Population and Family Planning Program,
NFPCB, Jakarta, 1982.
A.3 Population and Development in Indonesia, Jakarta, 1982.
A.4 An Overview of the Information Systems of the Indonesian National
Family Planning Coordinating Board, Options for Systems Change and
Development, James F. Phillips, Population Council.
A.5 Project Paper: Family Planning Development and Services II, USAID,
Jakarta, June 1983.
A.6 Repelita IV: Summary of the fourth Five Years Development Plan of
Indonesia, 1984/85 to 1988/89, May 1984.
A.7 Migration, Urbanization and Development in Indonesia, ESCAP, United
NaLions, New York, 1981.
A.8 "Contraceptive Use and Program Development in Indonesia,"
International Family Planning Perspectives, Vol. 9, No. 3, New York,
October 1983.
A.9 Indonesia Population Sector Memorandum, PHN (In Draft, January 25,
1985).
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Proposed Projects for IBRD Assistance, NFPCB, Jakarta, April 1983 and
March 1984.
B.2 Integrated Family Planning Services in Transmigration Areas, NFPCB,
Jakarta, September 1984.
B.3 Implementation Strategy for the Proposal to Strengthen NFPCB's
Training Capacity in Support of Indonesia's National Family Planning
Program During Repelita IV, !-FPCB, Jakarta, September 1984.



- 45 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
B.4 Training Consultaat's Report, J. Nelson, Washington, D.C., October
1984.
B.5  Architect's Education Proposal, NFPCB, Jakarta, September 1984.
B.6 Toward the Institutionalization of Population Education, 1985-1990,
NFPCB, Jakarta, September 1984.
B.7 Population Education Proposal, NFPCB, Jakarta, September 1984.
B.8  The Family Planning IEC Program Strategy and Implementation During
Repelita III: Review of Five Provinces, L. Hendrata and C. Mercado,
Jakarta, August 1984.
B.9 Project Proposal for IEC to the 4th Population and Family Planning
Project of World Bank, NFPCB, Jakarta, August 1984.
,..10 Development of an Indonesian Population Plan of Action, Ministry of
Population and Environment, Jakarta, September 1984.
B.11 Development of 10 Population Studies Centers, Ministry of Population
and Environment, Jakarta, September 1984.
B.12 Research Proposals, NFPCB, Jakarta, September 1984.
B.13 Research and Development, 1984/85 to 1988/89, NFPCB, Jakarta,
September 1984.



INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Project Components by Year
Totals Including Continimcies Totals Including Contingencies
(RUPIAH Billion)                  (USS Million)
1    2    3    4    5   Total   1    2    3    4    5   Total
Can= 3a33 Eas  BEnK =a EE  EEEEE  ENES  ESE EoEE USES SUEz  S 3S335
A. STRENGTHENING NFPCB
1. FIELD OPERATIONS DEVELOPHENT                                    2.1 12.6 14.6  4.6  2.1  36.0   1.9 11.5 13.2  4.2  1.9  32.9
2. STAFF DEVELOPMENT                                               0.9  4.1  5.7  4.6  2.3  17.5   0.7  3.7  5.2  4.2  2.1  15,9
3. INFORIATION , EDUCATION AND COIIIUNICATION                      1.1  5.9  6.4  1.3  1.4  16.1   1.0  5.4  5.9  1.2  1.3  14.7
4. POPULATION EDUCATION                                            1.7  146  1.7  1.6  1.8   8.4   1.5  1.5  1.6  1.4  1.6   7.6
5. SERVICE DELIYERY IN TRNNIGRATION AREAS                          2.9  3.4  2.2  1.2  1.5  11.1   i.   3.1  2,0  1.1  1.3  10.1
6. RESEARCH                                                        0.7  0.8  0.8  0.9  0,8   4.0   0.7  0,7  0,7  0.8  0.7   3,6
Sub-Total STRENGTHENING HFPCB                                         9.3 29.5 31.3 14.1  9.9  93.1   8.4 25.9 28.5 12.8  9.0  84.6
g. ASSISTING MINISTRY OF POPULATION AND ENVIRONMNT
…-. . 
1. INDONESIAN POPULATION PLAN OF ACTION                            0.6  0.9  0.7  0.1  0.1   2.5   0.6  0.8  0.7  0.1  0.1   2.3
2, POPULATION STUDY CENTERS                                        0.6  1#6  1.7  1.9  2.0   7.6   0.5  1.4  1.5  1.7  1.8   6.9
3. SUWPORT TO NON - GOVERNNENTAL ROMIZATIMNS                      0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.6   0.1  0.1  Oil  0.1  0.1   0.6
Sub-Total ASSISTINB MINISTRY OF POPULATION AND ENVIRONMENT            1.3  2.5  2.6  2.1  2.3  10.9   1.2  2.3  2.3  1.9  2.1   9.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    10.6 31.0 33,9 16.2 12.2 103.9   9,6 28.2 30.8 14.9 11.1  94,4
|SEES SES SUNK 8555 NEED lSENE E:5S: 353 SEEN IEEE SEE_::
-___________ __  ---__----  ----_ - ------- ----____.._.-.........................______________________________-__________....
0
'-9



INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Breakdown of Sulmmary Accounts
(US$ Million)
loe Costs                Phv.elcl ContilMmncles             Price Cwntirdwifst1,Ttlm                       Cat.           PIwsical    CoIsi  f
- ..........                                                                                                                     Cant. Plus    Price
Local                           Local                            Local                           Local                     Price Conti  Cont, on
for.  UMCI. hutlas I            For.  3Excl, Duies. I            Fao,  (Exrl, hyti.s I           For.  (Exil. Suties I            on fhlsical    late
Excti, Taxts)  Taxts   Total  Exch. halxs   Tansi  Total  Exch, lion)  taxes   lotal  Each. Tags)e  Tains   lotal                    Cant,       Costs
I. INWSTIIEWT COSTS
As LAND                                         -     3.2         -  3,2                -                        -     0.3         -  0.3         -    3,5              3 s5                       .
3. CIVIL  OMS
I. CWNSTRIxt(wt                           4.1    9,2          -  13,4    0,4    0.9               .3    3.0t   2,4             -   3.5    5.6   12.6            -  loll            I.6       36.5
2. ARCHITECTLRAL FEES                     0.2    1.3               1.5    0.0    0.1           -   0.2    0.0    0.2           -   0.3    0.2    I.?            -   2.0            0,2         I.e
3. FURNITL3E AND OFFICE EQUIP             0.5    1.?          -   2,2    0,0    0,?            -   0,2    0.1    O,6           -   0,7    0.7    2.4            -   3.1            0.3        2,9
Sub-Iota] CIYIL UR5I                          4.9   12.3          -  I7,      0,5    1.2               II7    1,2    3,2           - 4,4    6,5   36.7              -  23,2           2,3        21,3
C. EouIPMNT                                   5,7    3.3          -   869        -                             0.9    0.4          -   1.2    6,5    3,6               10.2              -       10,2
D. 'EHICLE                                  t3ed    2.2           -  15.9       -                        -    2,0    0,4           -   2.4   1356    2,6            -  39.2              -       19.2
Es TECHNIICAL ASSISTANCE
LOCA  M.CESATANTS                            -    0,9          -   0.9       -                 -0,                                  Oi01l           1,0         -   1.0              -          .0
EXPATRIATE WIS3TANTS                      3,3                  .   3, ll                                    0.41                    0,4    3,5        -              3.5             -        3.5
Su-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTAKCE                 3.1    0.9              4, Also-    0.4    0.3                                           0,5    3.5    1.0           -   4,6                        4.6
F. IRAINING
Is INSERICE TRAINING                      0,0    6os4         -   6,4        -       --                    0.0    1,2               1,32    0.0    7,7          -   7.7              -         7,7
2. MYERAS FELLONSIPS                      3.4l      -          -   3.4       -                      '-     0.6        -         -    0,      W,                 -   4o2                        4,2
3. LOCAL FELLONSIMS                          -    0,7          -  0.7        -                        -       -    0.1          -0 i3         -    0.9          -0.                   -       0.9
4, REFRESHER IRAINING                        -    3.0         -   1.0        -                                -    0.3              0.3       -    Io2          -   3,2               -        3,
5, TMAELMD PER PIERS                         -    3.2              3,2               -                             0,7          -0.7          -    3.9          -   3.9               -        3.9
6, HGNORIA AND TRAINIING FEES                     0.7          - 0.7         -                                     0,2          - 0.2         -    0.p          -   0.9               -        0.9
Sub-Total TRAINING                            3.4   12,0          -  1554                                      oil0.   2,5              3.3    4.2   34,5           -  19.7              -       39.
0. MTERIALS                                   3.      3.9         -   7.5        -       -         -           0,7    0.9               1.5    4,4    4,6               7,?0             -        9.0
Ho fhWYS AN  ANALYSIS                         0.5    2,5          -   3.3        -       -                     0,3    0,5          -     p 0.6   il    jet          -   3.7              -         .
to IIKOI  GENERAING ACTI'JI1IES                 -    0.7          -   0,7        -       -               -       -    0s2          - 0,2          -    0.9         -   0,9                        oi0.
Jo rUTIRE PROJECT MPARE ATION                   -    0.5          -0.5                  -                              0.2         -0,2           -    0.7         -  0.7                         0.7
K, MONITORING MND EVALUATIINI                          , Ito1.0 too                                      -             0,2         - 0.2          -    1.2          -   1,2              -        1.2          3
Li SL909   TO NGN-OOWRETAL OR6S.                      0.5         -   0.5        -                                     Oil              06.~        0. 6                06                        06
total IMYESTIEN  COSTS                          34.9   42.9          -  77,       0.5    3.2          -   It?    6.1    6.9           -  1i5t   43.4   53.0            -  K4.4            2.1       92,3        ..
Total                                            34.9   42.9          -  77.7    0.5    1.2            -   Is7    6.1    6.            -  15.    41.4   53.0            -  94.4            2,3       92,3



INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Summtary Account by Project Component
(Rupiah Million)
uwisuin
FuLl            ~~~~~IWMTh1U                KYICtYr  W.1W3?             PLATION                     W9T to0U  -                 c.tl.dsmhl
wmitAIn        STAFF     NUCTIMN  NI P3A612    IN TLRUIIHRAI2U                    PtMf OF    PV3ATIWE         NWNOOM                     -. ....  .
DEWWIOII   IIELWLOIN   CKNIcATU   OEiiE                   AM"          EIAOI    ACTIU        InFY CENTER   OKUMIZA*IW          TO0J1       I  ht
It 2IPNSIENT COS13
A. LA"                                     3.05l1,l       473.4                                                                  -- 3,.                                           00      0.
1. CIVIL 5MK
II CONstR3ET2U                         9.0116,2     5699-                                                                                                          140.1       01456
2. AMI24TECTRU. FEES                    1210.!s       4HU,                           -                                                                              1,6911.2  to,,l  Si9e%
3. FUITI1I   NO PuICE EquJip            10163.1      2,234.2                                            -                     -20391,0   30,0   39.5l
Sub-Tutal CIVIL   S8                      11.43046      7.3456                                                                                                                   loot---    377,    1.   Woo7.
C. EW2PFMU                                   117.2         1159,        .9,                            .3,                                                              ,5,    off    too                     I
to WHICLE                                 23,26.4       2.0097         1194fo5           -               1102-2.32                                                                fi      too 0,
LOCAL £SSLTMTS                                         1 57,5         326.00                         103.0    251,2       433.6-                                      993.3   0,0f    0.0
EXPATRIA1I C361.TMdIS                     271.9      1,393.6                                         226.      Oi.l       ,2.6-- 340,                                           ,       .
Sub-Total TEDICIULN ASSIITANU                211.9      1,451,1          126.0                          331.6    491,2     3,677.2                                     4I49,          0.   M.
F. TRAINING
1. 3NUfl'ICE TRAININS                         -                       23.6    4,309.              2,10.00         -                                            -    702         .      040
2. Klt(     FU.MUMIPS                                                                                           M 9.                   3,322.                       3,2.       M.       .
3. LOCAL FULL2IP1                                      462.3              -      222.!                         61,3                                                            lot. 0.  .
4. 9FMMI   IRA3N2NI                                                                                1010,01                                                          SIMI ,00.  0.0      M
3. TRAVEL MS PiER3215                                21,1134,                                        640.0  3,27,3                                                  3404"'I   0.0    100
Sub-total 1641I145                                      2.0iU.           SIM.     3,922,5             3t,99f  2,369,                      3,322.0                     1639,     0,0       0
U. MTCRIALS    I                                          239.7        4,93,       2,207.5             .345,0    425.9           -210.0                           -    3263,5   0.0    0,0
No lEWIS M  U      YI                                                                 Mel               S0o0l$55,                         2,666,!                      3,363,6   0.0      lot 
It IKK  INEKAIINS MTIIVIIIIU                     -                                                      0,0--775   0.0                                                                    lot
J. FUILIE MAGEC REPAATWN1                   525.0                                       -                  -                                                      -          0   to       0.0
3. 15N2T09245 WS EYAL1110A--                                                         60                 441,00                                                         11101.5    0.      100
Total SNIWiE IET £M13294M,                                23.6209        133765,3     6,954.6            9,505.3   3,206.2     2,2022         6,91.5              523.0   *.403ol   2.2 3,07.9o        '
Ph"vical CmntinuWlin                        I1,143.2       Me4.               .                                       -..                                                ,7769   0.0    0,
Priet CordingqMc"                           543,41       1,142.        21152.9      1,040.7            3,157.     6n3,5       3064s        3,43I.0              33 6136,24.2    2,7   441.9
totsl MIGECT C01                               604,         747.           6210         .5211053 390,                           ,3.           7,629.              640,6  lOE          2,2 2eU19.
Forulio Eed,ai                             27,971.6      7,3*007       32,Sm,I                          410.2    0woo       3.37.6         4,330,7                     4g33,3o    ,4  649,l



INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Breakdown of Summary Accounts
(Rupiah Million)
Physical CaMntingdeIs                 Price Continkncls                                                               Phvslcal
ease Cot                     *-..................................total Inch. CaMt                                                                      Canit. Plus
...........................            Loall                                   Local          .............  ..........                                   P,icm  Canto
Lac-. (Cxci, Outwe  I             F,ar.  (E,gi,  hti1s I                        liarS,  htles I                         Local (Excl. Duties I              CAf  hslobvlc
For. Exch,     Taxies      taxes    Total    Exich, Taxes)   taxes   Total    For. Exch, Taxes)   taxes    Total    For. Exch,    Taxes)           Taxes    Total         Cant.
8-48188m81   .. 518-888  8888888888   88188 s . as..a  8883888  ozat*8l, 88888    8a..8.8884  &8888888 8883884  18848848884  884828888888 83883888 888888833  88888888883
1. INWITIENT COSIS
A. LAN                                                     ,5523552                                                                     3,  331            311  -                  3,986,13        -   311186,3
is CIVIL MOMS
to CWlSTRtMTlWl                          4.148,       10.134,5           141686.1  454.9 1,013,1            1,468.6      lo116.0 2,614,0             3,809.9     6,119,4      1343.345-  19,964.6                 10615.0
2. MNCHI4ECtLEMA  FEES                     211.4       1,477.7         -  5.695,    21.7   147.8          -   169,5         32.5   249,6          -      2121       271,7       1.975,0         -   2,144,?         lt5.2
3. FURNITURE AED OFFICE EQUIP              535.9       usS62.1         -20"98,    5336   166.             -   239.8        161.7   607,4          -    769.1        751-2      2.455,7         -   3,406,3          30911
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                       5.301,9      l3,477.3         -190,79ol  530,2 1.34?71              1.97769      1.310,  3o550,9         -  4,861.1      7.142o3      l8o.3'5,         -  25.51112       2,319.8
C. ESJIPIENT                                6.215,9       3.593,2         -  f1809.        -                  -J95.    40449                         -  1,360.6      7,11,17       3,991.0         -  11.11497 
D. VEIIELE                                  14798316      2,450,5         -I17,434,1       -        -         -              W11,5   410.4           -  2,622ol    17,195ol        2,861,1         -  20.056,            0.0
CTECHNICALCM  ASSISTANCE
LOCAL COSA TANT!S                               -        93,3          -    993.3       -        -        -                         161.2         -    161.2            -       154             -   11154,5
IKIAThIAT E CNUIANIS                     3*455.7                       -  3.455.7       -                                   416.2       -              416.2      3,81.1.           0,00            30811,8           0,0
Sub-Total 11EC4ICAL ASSISTANCE               3,45157         "93,         -  4.449,0        -       -         -       -        416.2   161.2         -    577,4      3,971,8       1,154,5             5.026J            0.0
F. TRAINING
le INSERYICE IRAlNINO                         0,2      7,092.4         -  7.092,6       -        -0.0 10350,2                                     -    &1,302         0.3      6,oo4242             8 5442,5
2, IYASEAS FEILLWSH4IPS                  3,720.8                       -  3.720,                                            11 - - 80865               8885135    4,609.3           0,0             4,609,3           0.0
3. LOCAL FELLQUSIIPS                            -        735,1         -    735,1       -                                           1431s         -    143.1            -         978,2         -     8182            0.0
4, MEFMSE R TRAINING                            -      1,050,0         -  1105060        -                                           7. 6    276,6                      - 041,328,6             - 1,325.6
5. TRAWEL AND KAR OlIN!                                3,484.1         -  3.484o1       -        -                              -   7969               798,9            -       4,282.9         -   4282,9
6. HOOARMIA M  IRAI61ING FEES                   -        812.5         -    812.5       -                                           179,0         -    179.0            -         991,5         -     991,5           0.0
Sub-Total TRAINIKS                           3,721,0     13,174,1            14.895,1                                          ON -   8, 6 2,749.7   -  3,638,3      4.609,6      15.923,1         -  20,533,4           0.0
U. MATERIALS                                 4,061.1       4,199,9         -  8.261,5       -                                   19.3   862.6         -  1,682.2      4,511,0       5.062,7         -   9,943.7            0.0
R. SURVEY& AND N4NVS1S                         566,5      2,795.1          -  3.31,4        -       -         -                113,9   600,6         -    714.5l       680.4       3.3915.?            4,071.1           0.0
le JICOE 6ERATING ACTIVITIES                       -        717.5         -    781.5       -                                           173,4         -    173.4            -         960.9         -     960.9          -0.0
J, FUTWE PROJCT PREPARATION                                 525,0         -    525,0        -                                .     -     1903              10903           -715.3                  -     715,3                              p,
K. EOlTOAING AND EVALUATION                        -       11101.5         -  1uI01.5       -                                          257.5         -    251.5             -      1.359,0         -   1,359.0              -
Le 8*10T TO N0N-80RWRiENKr    OG$*.                         525,0          -    525.0       -                                           115,4        -    115,6                      8 40,6        -      640,6           0,0
fatal !~'o[STMEMT COSTS                        38,306.2     41.177,4          - 8514836  530.2 1,347.            - 1,877.9      6,715.4 9.80868         - 16.524o2    45,51oll    58,334,0            - 103,515.7       2319.1             4
rotal                                           38,346,2      47#177.4        -85i483,6  5302 1,347.7             - 1,107,9      6,715.4 9,8068,1        - 16,524,2    45,551,8       58,334,0         - 103.885,7       2,319.8            o
................................... ................................................................ .  . . .  .  .... . .............................................. . ........................... .  ...............



-50 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of I
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Vehicle Procurement
1 * Minibuses
By June 30, 1987: 85 minibuses
By June 30, 1988: the remaining 85 minibuses
2.   Mobile Information Units
By June 30, 1987: 43 mobile information units
By June 30, 1988: the remaining 44 mobile information units
3. MotorMcyles
By June 30, 1986: 45 motorcycles
By June 30, 1987: an additional 3,275 motorcycles
By June 30, 1988: the remaining 3,230 motorcycles
4.   Bicycles
B- June 30, 1986: 300 bicycles
By June 30, 1987: an additional 24,100 bicycles
By June 30, 1988: the remaining 23,800 bicycles



INDONESIA
Orgonization Chart d the National Fhmity Planning Coordinacing board
vcoctff 
8MAUJ
.             ttv. qanb .                                                .,_ _.
G~~~~~~ ctn to                                                  coFl kw fIo
l*" C" a ltxnd                                                                              & lM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  & I-, l   I ,
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dobt II dnS   



INDONESIA
Ministry of Population and Environment
Organizational Chart
ASSISTANT MINLISEr I             ASSISANT MiNiSiER I             ASSISTANT MINISTER III          ASSISTNT INSER N
~~~~~POATIO & L1TO&iNENTrI~ ~JtAi
FOI R NATURAL EWIRONMENI        ro P MAN MADE ENVIRONMENI         FOR THE INTEGRATION OF             FOR POPUAIION
;:>1iS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POKTO & LWI?OWENyS
Lill                        -i L-                    L-d EL7tS1
Wod Dank-27091



CORRESODNCE SIJBDMASION
PERSONNEL SUSDMSEIONZ
INUMAL 4L.FAIRS SU3D:MSON          
DOCMETAION & LIBRARY
CAHE SUBDM9LON        
!~~~~~~~~~~ Li
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   0
lIER S90N   t       _   |                                             ;:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
LE A  SLJBDrqL$Sk
INTER-AGENCY RELATIONS  |Xii
WTER-ON  19ON4EOGtZnN                               <                       
|RELAT>OS SUBD lGO
.  INTERNAlK)hNAL COOPKATN_
WTENAT        EIAOCNIZABON
lCOOPERATINSOMONN 
z ;o z asila
z~~~~~~~                      ss -



_6w    - THAILAND                      o17                                                                       1W
o0L   -       .               .                 -ALAYSIA                                                      BRUNEIt i
MALYSI                            MALAYSIA .
o-I.              - L.  '1
-, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~-- C. .                                   '
0*                 -    ~       ;     -         
---  .45,6 --                                  -                     MALAYSIA          i4,56
-           /    v     7       N~~~~~~~IGAPORE                                                              J          t
-V    -a                                                                  KA-*1,AXAV:rA'                SAMA w
N         --   ~ 0.      ; -                             --=             ,S                             A5O~
_ -                              -                                     *1244S               _o5
-  '. '   4   5-                                                K.=I. .
PRVICE'         _12                  ;     d P'w           -                     -                           '2' !-/ 
PROVINCES- '.' x 3,4    -                       °       --         -      ,,        :-    --2'                  /  *6             92
- EWIA1~~~NA-- ARAT
-:SITfA  IIATAN
,~~~~~~~~~~~1 2,3 60...0supm                                                                                                           X
NGIWW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~BNK
-u    oTh'i.2..g01.2. 3.
-o    c DJU. JAEWA                                        (-.5 -
,J,     TnGI                 UIGNAO  CCa.                      * JAICRT     .4  w
PRVNF:                            3,'                                    BE1 tYX       *                       '       6 
' Tlm SLGVf *EJ/S         A- -ws  -a                      -.           -                 -  ;-  - --
JAWM Il        T                                                            -               -
..BA                 'SMNIAa                          i2    =    -              0S 
, .,  UWGA   I-u             3AN,DAlA5. W                                                                                         !5 AIW
-UA9JA SELATAN              8 UAYA I!
. 5 1 1  T_lUl    R     W                                                                                                       _~~~~~~~~~~0. .3
Fe _C-X   N ISLA TAI           C    A     AN JA
KALIANVANV  IEn                      ACA
N tA KAU T ARA LAW            2 WPC>I OFCI ORUCgU
TONI TJAV                     R     S IWAB D 
___     E                    LLMMAIC' IXWbl?                                                                                         11-



IBRD 18666R
n1W                                     130                                  130'
PHILIPPIN_S          _-                                                        INDONESIA
PHILIPPINS  ,FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
/                                   Fu~~~~~~~~~~~~povuIcIALuoiA
A 0
-            ._                                 HALMAAHERA
,   >°, ',  3.4      -                                                                           =         x0
@1.2.3  a                                   @1~~~~~~~~~~~~.-2.3,a-
3.4 -1.2'3,                                        '1°
SUi A WESI                                                                        Fo                                .89. .-
_ - < ; ~~~~~~~~~SENAAC-  
1,2,0i   8UtU  *o                                             - I ~~~~~~~~~            ~       ~~~~~RIA IV  JA YA_  z
01.2.0      ibo.                                                                                   z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uub 
3, 4 ---   ,,  
'_-            ',   _  ,       ~~~) M
-  rzores                          : -
~/ FL ORfES
@1.2.3.4. 16                V                                    'O 20D                                    3a0       40, 0
SiMA       9  o                         75.6.7.8.                                                          MILES
12  Kpw-                  -     .                                     0    100  200   300  400  500
_ _ - _ d*     b  N_    i1     b     _ _    _ *r             s     *___ _ __ '__ _ __ _._
ft-m           ..                                                 KILOMTEIIS
_uq.. rn_f _f._| 1Cp_ _f 1t
t2W                                     t3aA 1
APRIL 1985



