Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4026-IND
REPORT AND RECCMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AM.OUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 46 N4ILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
April 15, 1985
This document has a restricted distribuin and may be used by recipients oay in the performance of
their official dudes. Its contents mny not otherwise be disdosed without World Rank authorlzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rp 1,100
Rp 1 million = US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPEDA    -  ProvinciaL Developmenc Planning Agency
CBR        -  Crude Birth Rate
GOI        -  Government of Indonesia
IEC        -  Information, Education and Communication
MOEC       -  Ministry of Education and Culture
MOH        -  Ministry of Health
MOPE       -  Ministry of Population and Environment
NFPCB      -  National Family Planning Coordinating Board
NGO        -  Non-Governmental Organization
PCR        -  Project Completion Report
PPAR       -  Project Performance Audit Report
REPELITA   -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita  1, 1969-
74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84;
Repelita IV, 1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94; Repelita VI,
1994-99)
TFR        -  Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA      -  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF     -  United Nations ChiLdren's Fund
USAID      -  United Staces Agency for International Development
WHO        -  World Health Organization



FM OmcICI USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia.
Amount:            US$46.0 million equivalent.
E        Terms:              Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable rate.
Project
Description:     In support of the Government's population policy and over-
all fertility reduction goals during Repelita IV (1984-89)
and beyond, the project would: (a) help strengthen the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board's (NFPCB) acti-
vities by: (i) further decentralizing program administra-
tion, improving field communications and mobility of field-
workers; (ii) expanding and improving NFPCB's education and
training capacity; (iii) strengthening information, educa-
tion and communication activities; (iv) expanding popula-
tion education; (v) developing integrated family planning,
health, and nutrition services in transmigration settlement
units in five provinces; and (vi) strengthening research
activities; and (b) assist the Kinistry of Population and
Environment (MOPE) in: (i) developing a long-term Popula-
tion Plan of Action; (ii) strengthening population studies
centers in 10 universities; and (iii) strengthening the
capabilities of non-governmental organizations to carry out
population-related activities. The project will strengthen
the existing program to achieve the desired reduction in
fertility in Indonesia, and about 268,000 couples and about
805,000 children in transmigration areas will benefit from
integrated family planning and health services. The
project would involve no greater risk than the earlier
Bank-assisted population projects, particularly since there
is now a strong nucleus of staff in the NFPCB who have had
considerable experience in implementing Bank-assisted
projects. As far as the program is concerned, the risk is
that, despite the proven experience of the NFPCB, the
Government's demographic goals may not be achieved or their
attainment may be delayed which, in turn, would raise
questions about the soundness and comprehensiveness of its
program and strategies. Another risk is that effective
field coordination among the different implementing
agencies, in particular between the Ministry of Health and
the NFPCB, may not be fully achieved. The role of MOPE in
coordinating overall population policy and activities is
expected to mitigate these risks.
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance
of their officia dutics. Its contents may nat otherwvise be disclosed wihut World Bank authofizadon.



Estimated Cost:  /a                                 Local  Foreign  Total
-  US$ HillionT---
A.     Strengthening NFPCB
Field Operations Development                  12.9    13.8    26.7
Staff Development                              7.1     5.3    12.4
Information, Education and Communication    2.5    10.1    12.6
Population Education                           6.3       -      6.3
Service Delivery in Transmigration Areas    8.3        0.3      8.6
Research                                       2.3     0.7      3.0
Subtotal                                39.4    30.2    69.6
B.     Assisting HOPE
Indonesian Population Plan of Action           0.9     1.1      2.0
Population Studies Centers                     2.1     3.5      5.6
Support to Non-Govermental Organizations   0.5          -       0.5
Subtotal                                 3.5      4.6      8.1
Total Baseline Costs                    42.9    34.8    77.7
Physical Contingencies                         1.2     0.5      1.7
Price Contingencies                            8.9     6.1    15.0
Total Project Costs                     53.0    41.4    94.4
Financing Plan:
Bank                                          20.2    25.8    46.0
Government of Indonesia                       32.8    15.6    48.4
Total                                   53.0    41.4    94.4
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY            1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
(US$ Million) T-    -
Annual              1.5     6.7    12.9    17.4       7.5
Cumulative          1.5     8.2    21.1    38.5    46.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5404-IND, dated April 10, 1985.
Kap: IBRD No. 18666R
/a Net of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$46 million to help
finance the Fourth Population Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five vears of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY!'
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-IND dated April 26, 1984), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 2, 1984. Annex I gives selected social and econo-
mic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1Z p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP yr capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries._
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Rubber Development II Project (No. P-3930-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-28, dated January 31, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors
on February 19, 1985.
2/  On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion. and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support ser-
vices and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This
supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the past decade,
and movement towards self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a
high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from
a very low base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic
market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b)  a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base,
simplifying the structure of rates and improving administration.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. Non-oil GDP rose by an estimated 4%
during 1983 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In partic-
ular, the current account deficit was reduced from US$7.3 billion (8.4% of
GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$2.7 billion (3.5% of GNP) in 1984/85. The
major factors responsible for this improvement are import cuts, resulting from
the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand, and higher export earnings



From non-oiL products, due to recovery in the industriaL countries and the
Government's poLicies to promote non-oil exports.  The Government's restraint
is also evident in the budget, where real expenditures have probably fallen
over the past three years. This fiscal discipline. in turn, helped keep
domestic inflation down to about 12% in 1983 and 9Z in 1984, despite the
inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devaluation and the petroleum
price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5Z p.a. is
probabLy necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a
growth rate, without generating unmanageable baLance of payments pressures, is
one of the major chaLlenges facing the Covernment. Successful transformation
of the economy will require continued action in three key poLicy areas:
management of the public investment program (and improvements in the
regulatory/policy environment for private investment), rationalization of the
external trade regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years.  At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agricuLture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives.  It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government announced in August 1983 that there would be a major
overhaul of the regulatory framework for private investment, with the objec-
tive of simplifying and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationaLize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The difficult external payments situation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency. There are strong arguments for



- 4 -
adopting crade and industrial policies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic and export markets. A comprehensive program of import
policy reforms might include a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustment assistance to industries affected by import liberalization
and anti-dumping legislation to protect domestic industries from unfair
competition. Such measures would help to improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of the economy.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following che recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7X of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natu-
ral increase in popuLation) resettled permanently in provinces outside those
of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program.  There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.  This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The 1979-81 bumper



rice harvests appear to have Led to improvements in wages and incomes in Java,
while agricuLcural incomes in parts of the Other Islands dependent on export
crops declined. This situation may have been reversed following the 1983 de-
valuation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared to the 1970s, the growth
in the labor force is expected to increase over the next decade (to about 2.7%
p.a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the labor
market is not expected to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
facing the country, Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will stiLl
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on agri-
cuLtural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at econo-
mic prices), to spread labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural year
(e.g., by improving wacer resource management and development) and to encou-
rage agricuLtural development on the Other Islands. It is also important that
public expenditures are increasingly directed toward sectors, such as social
programs and rural infrastructure, which generate employment or ease the bur-
den of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Government needs
to ensure that incentives appropriately reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35Z. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18Z of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public mediumr and long-term
(HLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next



three years, including aoout US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development assi-
stance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
naL reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was estimated at
US$21.7 billion, with an additional US$13.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments.  Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable incerest rates for only 23X: there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1983 is escimated at
15 years.  The Government continues to manage its external eebt quite prudent-
ly. Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of che sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose co 26% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 246 in 1989 and decline back to 21% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3/
17.       As of March 31, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$938.5 million (less cancellations) and 93 Bank loans amounting to
US$7,021.0 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$162.2
million. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's total (disbursed)
external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was 13.1%, and the share of debt
service, 10.3% compared with 13.3% and 7.9%, respectively, in 1982. Annex II
contains a summsary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1985.       From 1968 until 1974, aLl lending to Indonesia was made
through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the
commodity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's lending
in the remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of
IDA lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita
GNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued in
FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration)
for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-
assisted projects have been in this sector.  In addition, loans and credits
have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Rubber Development II Project (No. P-3930-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-28, dated January 31, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors
on February 19, 1985.



is.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
v            more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation.  This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate pov-
erty. This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on
reforms that have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the
economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and
recurrent expenditures, and '.oster a policy environment conducive to the
achievement of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the
financial system, and public resource management. In the lending program,
agriculture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is
broadly based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human
resource development. Continued attention is being given to power and energy,
where the Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy
base, rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the
Bank is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on
improving the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban
development and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to
developing innovative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and
strengthening local institutions, in order to minimize demands on the
Government budget and decentralize the responsibility for addressing basic
needs. In all, the Bank's lending program is intended to contribute about 20%
of Indonesia's capital requirements during the next three years and is
expected to be an important catalyst in attracting other funds. Where
possible, we are seeking also to widen the impact of Bank lending through
technical assistance, as well as complementary investments and coordinated



policy dialogue with other donors. This is especially true in our lending
programs for power, urban development, water supply and transportation.
20.       There hat been a notable improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio2! from a low of 13% in FY80 to over L9% in FY84. The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in
commitments during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to
Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83Z. However,
it also refLected implementation difficulties arising out of the Governmenc's
budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have
been taken by the Government and the Bank co address these issues. Several
special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work out
corrective measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September
1979, November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint
initiatives. the Government has taken measures to streamline some of the
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
In addition, in order to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of
all of these activities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from
US$206 million in FY79 to US$764 million in FY84. It is nevertheless clear
that continued efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of
disbursements are required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement
ratio below the Bank-wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The
Bank is helping the Covernment in a special effort to identify problems in the
construction industry with a view to deveLoping appropriate remedial actions
and policies, as weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been
identified as one of the major causes of implementation problems in
Indonesia. Efforts are also underway to develop standardized tender documents
in order to speed the procurement process, and to improve project monitoring
and land acquisition procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's
intention to devote continued attention to these and other aspects of project
implementation in the coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is
realized from the Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR
Current Demographic Situation
21.       The high rate of growth of the population in Indonesia has, in the
past decade, become the focus of major concern and action. Since the early
1970s, the Government has initiated strong population policies, established an
effective and comprehensive family planning program, the activities and ser-
vices of which are coordinated by the National Family Planning Coordinating
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
Board (NFPCB), and, recently, set up a Ministry of Population and Environment
(one of the few in the world) for population policy formulation and coordina-
tion of the broader aspects of population planning at the natiogil level.
These have led to a reduction in gyaditionally high birth races- and in the
annual rates of population growth- from about 2.6Z in 1970 to an estimated
2.1Z by 1980. However, the demographic problems that Indonesia faces remain
formidable. With a population estimated to be 155 million, Indonesia is the
most populous country in Southeast Asia and the fifth most popuLous in the
world. rts population momentum is great owing to a young age structure. In
addition to its absolute size and still high ove:all growth rate, the tro most
prominent features of rndonesia's population are:  regional extremes in
density, ranging from an average of 690 persons per km in Java, where over
60% of all Indonesians live on less than 7% of the country's total Land area,
to about 3 persons per km2 in Irian Jaya, accounting for over 202 of total
land area; and, lack of significant differerce in fertility levels between
rural and urban areas.
22.       Fertility t7ends have been quite encouraging.  Indonesia's total
fertility rate (TFR)7 fell from 5.5 to 4.5, or by about 182, between 1967-70
and 1980. Fertility declined by varying degrees in all provinces with the
greatest fall occurring in Java and Bali. This decline is noteworthy for two
reasons: first, it took place at a relatively low level of socio-economic
development, and second, it dates from the introduction of the national family
planning program. Nevertheless, Indonesia's TFR, most recently etstimated at
4.3 in 1982, remains high in comparison with such neighboring countries as the
Philippines (4.2), Malaysia (3.7), Thailand (3.6), and Singapore (1.7).
23.       Despite substantial progress during the last 20 years, mortality,
specifically of infants and children aged 1-4 years, remains high. However,
compared to fertility, provincial gifferentials in mortality appear somewhat
less pronounced.  Infant mortality-  declined consistently in almost all of
the provinces during the 1970s. In 1980, infant mortality was estimated at
about 102 per 1000 live births, which is significantly higher than the
Philippines (51), Thailand (51), Malaysia (29), Singapore (11), and the
average for all middle-income countries (76).
24.       The population of Indonesia is relatively immobile; between 1975-
1980 only 3.5 million people aged five years and over, comprising roughly 2.4%
5/   Number of births per 1,000 population in a given year.
6/   Rate aL which a population is increasing in a given year due to natural
increase and net migration, expressed as a percentage of the b'.se
population.
7/   Average number of children that would be born alive to a woman (or group
of women) during her lifetime if during her childbearing years she were
to bear children at each age in accord with prevailing age-specific
fertility rates.
8/   The number of deaths of infants under 1 year of age in a given year per
1,000 live births in that year.



- 10 -
of the total population, moved across provincial boundaries. The pattern of
population movement shows two dominant streams: (a) an influx into Jakarta
and Lampung Province and (b) movement out of Central and East Java.
Future Demographic Trends
25.       Assuming a continued gradual decline in fertility, Bank projections
indicate Indonesia's population will grow to about 179 millgn by 1990 and to
about 212 million by the year 2000; a net reproduction rate- equal to one
would be reached in 2010, leading to an ultimate stationary population of 370
million. Under this assumption, the average annual population growth rate is
projected to decrease from just over 2.0% between 1980-85 to 1.8Z between
1990-95, and further to 1.4% between 2000-2005. However, even with a rapid
fertility decline, Indonesia's population will increase by about 2.4 million
persons each year during the next 16 years, with its total population
increasing to about 300 million by 2050.
26.       These increases in population, including the changes in its age
structure, have important implications and consequences. They have an impact
on development and the quality of life of all Indonesians and underline the
urgency of strengthening the national family planning program. For the
remainder of this century and the next, more food, housing, medical services,
education, and employment will be needed. By the year 2000, the number of
primary school-age children is expected to increase to 28 million and the
demand for secondary education will rise in line with the increasing number of
primary school graduates. Presently, junior and senior secondary enrollment
ratios are very low (34% at the junior and 19% at the senior secondary
levels). To improve or even maintain this low level of enrollment will become
more difficult without a massive increase in public and private expenditures
on education. During the current decade, about 16 million additional persons
are projected to enter the labor force, compared with about 10 million during
the 1970s. Given the limited absorptive capacity of agriculture, a larger
proportion of new jobs will need to be created in industry and the services
sector. Migration to cities has already intensified population problems and
will continue to do so to an increasing extent.
Population Policies
27.       Policy.  The main objectives of GOI's population policy, most
recentLy articulated in Repelita IV (1984-89) are:  to reduce fertility and
mortality, to increase life expectancy, and to reduce the imbalance in the
population's distribution. The key components or instruments of this policy
are the family planning program, related health and nutrition services, and
transmigration.
9/   Average number of daughters that would be born to a woman (or group of
women) if during her life-time she were to conform to the age-specific
fertility and mortality rates of a given year. A net reproduction rate
of one means that each generation of mothers is having exactly enough
daughters to replace itself in the population.



- 11 -
28.       Demographic Coals.  During the early 1970s, the GOI's long-term
demographic goal was to reduce fertility by the year 2000 to half the I ve1
estimated in 1971. This invoLved lowering the crude birth rate (CBR)1- from
44 per 1,000 to 22 per 1,000 in 30 years and included the intermediate indi-
cator or target of a CBR of 34 per 1,000 by the end of Repelita III (1979-84).
By the late 1970s, the family planning program's encouraging results in Java
and Bali and a quickening of political resolve to controL fertility as a major
national ptiority led the GOI in 1980 to accelerate its Long-term goal by 10
years, i.e., to lower the CBR to 22 per 1,000 by 1990, instead of the year
2000. This revision implied an intermediate CBR target of about 31 per 1.000
by the end of Repelita III or, in operational terms, a nationaL contraceptive
prevalence rate of 512.
29.       By che end of RepeLita IIr, the national contraceptive prevalence
was about 58%, according to NFPCB estimates (based on its service statistics
data) which, if confirmed and if similar progress were sustained through
aepelita IV, would suggest that the famiLy planning program was weil on course
towards the 1990 goal of a CBR of 22 per 1,000. According to NFPCB data, the
target of current contraceptive users for GOI's fiscal year 1984/85 was
exceeded before the end of the year. However, it is not yet clear whether
actual progress to date, and therefore the degree and type of effort required
through Repelita IV, are fully consistent with NFPCB estimates. Moreover, the
Repelita IV plan document itself projects a reduction in the CBR from an esti-
mated 33.5 per 1,000 in 1984/85 to 31 per 1,000 in 1988/89, which is conserva-
tive in comparison with program performance in recent years. Precise CBR and
contraceptive prevalence estimates and projections are inherently difficult
and central planners and program managers may, for a variety of reasons, make
different assumptions or projections about future progress over a five-year
period. For these reasons, contraceptive prevalence and continuation rate
surveys will be carried out under the project to provide independent sources
of data for cross-checking with NFPCB estimates (see para. 45(f)).
Nonetheless, current trends, the planned change in contraceptive method mix
from heavy reliance on the oral contraceptive pill to more effective methods,
and improvement in the quaLity of services and efficiency of field operations
suggest that, while a CBR of 22 per 1,000 may not be achieved by 1990,
Repelita IV targets are likely to be exceeded.
30.       Strategy.  The role of the national farily planning program will be
critical in achieving the demographic goals, particularly since socio-economic
progress alone cannot be relied upon to reduce fertility significantly.
Furthermore, the pace of socio-economic development itself will depend on how
fast fertility declines in Indonesia. It is essential that further decline in
fertility should be achieved, particularly in the Other Islands where
fertility remains high.
31.       The program strategy calls for an integrated approach to population
issues and assigns considerable importance to the roles of the community and
non-governmental institutions in program implementation. Increasing awareness
of the important linkages of health, nutrition, and education to fertility has
led to the development of programs designed to improve the health,
10/ Number of births per 1,000 population in a given year.



- 12 -
nutritional, and educational levels of Indonesians. As a result of the
experience with integrated family planning and nutrition activities in East
Java and Bali, sponsored by NFPCB with USAID assistance, and concerns about
the effectiveness and efficiency of village-level health services, the COI
recently decided to integrate or coordinate the delivery of health, nutrition,
and family planning services at the community level. This policy will entail
a much closer coordination with the Ministry of Health (MOH) than has been the
case in the past. It will also require substantial assistance to the MOH
itself -- in paramedical manpower development and the strengthening of
community-level health (including nutrition) services -- which are the focus
of two separate projects now being processed. The long-term strategy calls
for the integration of population with other development programs and emphasis
on programs which influence fertility, such as reduction of infant mortality
through upgrading of health care, improving the status of women, expanding
female education, and development of community incentives.
Family Planning Program
32.       Organization.  In line with its broad-based nature, several
ministries and agencies are involved in the program, including the Ministries
of Health, Transmigration, Home Affairs, Education and Culture, Population and
Environment, Information, Women's Affairs, the Armed Forces, and voluntary
organizations. Although the Ministry of Health is the principal agency
responsible for delivering clinical family pLanning services, family planning
is considered mainly a social and behavioral process - hence its multi-
sectoral nature and the designation of NFPCB, a semi-autonomous non-sectoral
institution, as the principal coordinating agency. The newly-established
Ministry of Population and Environment (MOPE) is primarily responsible for
population policy and plan formulation.
33.       The NFPCB is the agency responsible for coordinating family pLanning
activities and services. It has undergone several reorganizations with a view
to strengthening its capacity to plan, manage, and coordinate more effectively
an evolving and expanding program. The most recent reorganization calls for
substantial staff increases both in headquarters and in the field. These pro-
jected staff increases may be justified in terms of the pLanned expansion and
intensification of the program. However, the rate of increase raises ques-
tions about the consistency of these increases with the long-term goal of
institutionalizing the family planning program through integrating family
planning activities into the various development programs of other
ministries. It is therefore proposed to carry out an analysis of NFPCB's
medium- and long-term financial resource requirements (see para. 45(f)). The
GOI is aware of these issues and has undertaken to review staff requirements
in relation to program needs and available resources each year of Repelita IV.
34.       Program organization is decentralized.  Operations at the provincial
level are managed by NFPCB provincial chairmen in collaboration with provin-
cial governors and heads of implementing agencies. At the district level, the
NFPCB district chairman cooperates with the administrative head of the
district.
35.       Financing.  Expenditures on the program grew rapidly during Repelita
III, with heavy but declining reliance on external assistance. Total expendi-
ture in FY84 was estimated at Rp 102 billion (US$92.7 million), of which 60%



- 13 -
was financed from domestic sources. The NFPCB projects that its annual
resource requirements during Repelita IV will nearly triple to Rp 277 billion
(US$251.8) by FY89.
36.       Programmed aid from external sources for Repelita IV totals Rp 143
billion. Support has come from the WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF, the World Bank Group,
and the World Food Program, as well as from the bilateral programs of USAID,
the Japan Inter-:tional Cooperation Agency, and the Government of the
*         Netherlands.  In addition to supplying contraceptives, USAID provides techni-
cal assistance in a broad range of program areas and advanced training fellow-
ships for managerial and technical staff. Many non-governmental organizations
also assist the program. The UNFPA is supporting, among others, the develop-
ment and implementation of an integrated family planning, nutrition ant
primary health services program in the 10 provinces of Other Islands I_ , the
strengthening of program services in urban areas, demographic research, and
the production of oral contraceptives. WHO is supporting psycho-social
research in family planning and research on new injectable contraceptives.
USAID has provided Indonesia with contraceptives since 1968 as well as
developing Indonesia's capacity to produce oral contraceptives. Japanese
support to the program consisted mainly of assistance for the establishment of
a media production center, as well as a condom manufacturing factory.
Achievements and Constraints
37.       By all the conventional measures of popuLation and family planning
program performance -- including the Government's commitment to fertility
control, multi-sectoral participation by Government agencies concerned, know-
ledge, attitude and practice of family planning, and program management, or-
ganization, and efficiency - the Indonesian program has made very substantial
progress during the last 15 years. Indeed, it is now widely regarded as one
of the most successful in the world. The reasons for this are many and
include the total commitment of the country's leadership to the program, the
decentralized program management and monitoring, and community participation
and support.
38.       Notwithstanding these achievements and progress, much more remains
to be done if Indonesia's demographic objectives are to be achieved. While
many socio-economic variables influence the goal of reduced fertility, access
to, and availability of, family planning services remain a key contributor to
effective fertility control. In this connection, the main overall program
constraints that the GOI will need to address during Repelita IV and beyond
include: (a) further program decentralization with closer community involve-
ment and better coordination among implementing agencies; (b) improvements in
the quality of services to maintain high contraceptive continuation rates
through staff development, program evaluation, and research (operational and
biomedical), and by encouraging existing acceptors to substitute more reliable
methods for the contraceptive pill, which currently accounts for about 60% of
contraceptive use; (c) intensifying motivacional activities through the
11/  Aceh, North Sumatra, West Sumatra, South Sumatra, Lampung, West
Kalimantan, South Kalimantan, South Sulawesi, North Sulawesi, and West
Nusa Tenggara.



- 14 -
development of more effective and targetted information, education, and
communication (IEC) activities and innovative approaches to the subject; (d)
expanding the program in underserved areas; and (e) development of more
comprehensive population policies and strategies to meet the needs of an
evolving program. Many of these issues, particularly those relating to
access, quality, and policies are addressed by the proposed project. Issues
concerning clinical service delivery are being addressed through separate
health projects.
Bank Group Lending for Population
39.       Previous Bank Group assistance for popuLation in rndonesia comprises
one credit (300-IND), and two loans (1472- and 1869-IND) totalling US$72.7
million which, together with loans for nutrition (1373-IND) and provincial
health (2235-IND) totalling US$40 million, makes Indonesia the second Largest
borrower for population, health and nutrition, after India. The primary
objective of the three previous population projects was to help the NFPCB
develop and expand the family planning program to cover the entire country.
They supported program management, manpower training, and service delivery
through institutionaL infrastructure development and financed operational
activities in IEC, population education, and research.
40.       The first and second projects were completed in 1981 and early 1984,
respectively, and the third in March 1985. A project completion report (PCR)
for the first project was issued in February 1984. A draft project perfor-
mance audit report (PPAR) has been prepared for the first population project,
and has stressed the importance of a clear understanding of the priorities,
interests, and plans of other co-financing agencies. It also noted that a
longer time frame for institution-building is needed. Meanwhile, the NFPCB
has prepared a draft PCR for the second project to be finalized by June
1985. The main conclusion of the two PCRs is that the two projects contri-
buted significantly to the early institutional development of the NFPCB and
the program, specifically to its expansion in Java and Bali (6 provinces)
initially, and to the 10 provinces of the Other Islands I commencing in
1974. With the completion of the third project in March 1985, Bank and other
donor assistance had he157d extend the program to the remaining 11 provinces
of the Other Islands II1 , thus covering the entire country.
41.       This process of program development and institution-building over
the last decade or so has enabled the GOI to motivate and recruit millions of
acceptors. As a result, both total fertility and the rate of population
growth have declined significantly during the past 15 years. Bank-assisted
projects have, therefore, contributed to the achievement of Indonesia's
intermediate demographic objectives.
42.       The long-term demographic transition is barely underway.  Indonesia's
rate of population growth remains high; millions of existing contraceptive
users have to be maintained, the program must be expanded to areas which are
12/ Riau, Jambi, Maluku, Bengkulu, East Kalimantan, Central Kalimantan,
Central Sulawesi, Southeast Sulawesi, East Nusa Tenggara, East Timor, and
Irian Jaya.



-15 -
currently underserved, and the smalL family norm must be fully institution-
alized. These imperatives require further institution-building, program
intensification and development of more comprehensive policies. The Bank's
primary goal in the population sector is to help achieve the long-term
demographic goals and to further strengthen the institutional capacity of both
the NFPCB and the newly established MOPE. The principal vehicLes to be used
for achieving these goals are proposed projects in population and family
planning (the fourth population project), health (manpower development), and
nutrition (nutrition and community health) -- the latter two are expected to
be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors in late FY85 and early
FY86, respectively. As mentioned in para. 31 the development of paramedical
manpower and the strengthening of community-level health (including nutrition)
services are crucial to the implementation of the integrated family planning,
nutrition, and basic health services. A modest program of economic and sector
work and related policy studies and analyses (included in some of these
projects) will provide support to these operations.
PART IV - T'.E PROJECT
Background
43.       The project was prepared by the NFPCB and the MOPE. Its size and
composition emerged from continuing joint Bank/NFPCB reviews of the population
and family planning program needs and priorities, specifically during Repelita
IV, and also the financial and technical assi3tance already committed or
planned by other external aid agencies. Thus, the project's specific compo-
nents were selected partly on the basis of the program's priorities, partly on
the basis of the GOI's decisions concerning the source of assistance
available, and partly on the absorptive capacity of the NFPCB and the MOPE.
The project was appraised in September 1984. Negotiations were be held in
Washington from March 25-29, 1985. The Indonesian delegation was led by Mr.
Haryono Suyono, Chairman, NFPCB. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5404-IND) is
being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
44.       Taking into account the GOI's population policy and overall ferti-
lity reduction goals during Repelita IV and beyond, the main objectives of the
project are to help further strengthen the NFPCB, and to assist the recently
established MOPE, a policy coordinating agency, to carry out its overall
population policy development and planning mandate.
Project Description
45.       The project would consist of:  Part A - strengthening NFPCB (field
operations development, staff development, information, education, and
communication (IEC), population education, service delivery in transmigration
areas, and evaluation and research); and Part B - assisting MOPE to develop a
long-term Population Plan of Action, to strengthen existing regional univer-
sity population centers, and to build the capacity of non-governmental
organizations in carrying out population-related activities.



- 16 -
Part A: Strengthening NFPCB
(a)  Field Operations Development.  Decentralized administration and
management have been one of the main strengths of the Indonesian
family planning program. Thus, the NFPCB has over the years
strengthened its provincial, district and village-level operations,
by providing facilities for administration, training, IEC, and
Logistics, and improving mobility of its fieldworkers. The earlier
population projects heLped in this respect by providing training
accommodation and contraceptive warehouses for the NFPCB in all
provinces and offices in all L07 districts in 10 provinces of Other
Islands I, and vehicles for fieldworkers and field supervisors. The
proposed project will provide for the construction, furnishing, and
equipping of 84 NFPCB district offices and warehouse facilities of
Other Islands II and Jakarta. The construction of these facilities
would complete the process of infrastructure development at the
provincial and district levels. Given the key roLe that district
level staff play in fieLd coordination. management, and supervision
of family planning services, including the orientation and training
of sub-district and village-level staff and voLunteers, storage and
distribution of contraceptives, and production, distribution, and
dissemination of IEC macerials, the provision of appropriate facili-
ties is necessary and urgent. Acquisition of the 30 sites which
would be needed during che first year of impLementacion would be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Furthermore, the Government would acquire 25 additional
sites by December 31, 1985, and the remaining 29 sites by December
31, 1986 (Schedule 5, para. 2(b), of the draft Loan Agreement).
To increase the overall efficiency of field operations, the project
would also provide equipment and vehicles. First, communications
between the NFPCB headquarters in Jakarta and all of its provincial
offices would be enhanced by the provision of telex facilities in
Jakarta and in each of the provinces. Second, the Government would,
by April 30, 1986, carry out a feasibility study to define the need
for and appropriate specifications of citizen band radios, for use
by district and sub-district level field supervisors in coordinating
and/or reporting to and from their district office bases on day-to-
day field activities (Schedule 5, para. 4(a), of the draft Loan
Agreement), and if the study so recommends, would acquire such
radios, taking the Bank's comments on the study into consideration
(Schedule 5, para. 4(b), of the draft Loan Agreement). Third, the
mobility of NFPCB's field-level staff and volunteer workers - a
necessity in a country of Indonesia's size and a significant factor
in field-level achievements to date -- would be further improved by
the provision of motorcycles for program supervision and service
delivery at the district level, and bicycles for fieldworkers and
volunteers for use at the village level.
(b) Staff Development. The GOI's policy to improve the quality of
family planning services and contraceptive method mix, integrate
family plAnning, health, and nutrition services at the community
level and promote increased community involvement, requires an
expansion of NFPCB's training activities. To this end, the project



- 17 -
would strengthen the NFPCB's staff education and training capacity
by providing for the construction, furnishing, and equipping of a
new training center in Jakarta and an increase in the number of
qualified trainers and personnel management staff. The proposed
training center would be designed to provide a capacity sufficient
to meet the bulk of NFPCB's training demand during the next ten
years, the remainder to be carried out by the provincial training
centers. A suitable site for the building has already been
0                     acquired.
In addition, the project would support two activities designed to
improve the quality of training, as follows: (a) a comprehensive
assessment of NFPCB's existing training programs and development of
revised curricula and new training materials; (b) the training of
NFPCB's trainers and personnel management staff; and (c) improved
supervision and monitoring of provincial and district Level training
centers and activities. To help implement these activities, the
project would provide vehicLes, training materials, consulting
services, and fellowships. The Government would carry out the
training needs assessment by June 30, 1986 (Schedule 5, para. 5, of
the draft Loan Agreement).
(c) Information, Education, and Communication (IEC). The earlier
population projects helped establish provincial media development
units and mobile information units required to create and maintain
interest in and demand for family planning. An evaluation of the
activities of these units showed that they were highly effective in
motivating potential acceptors. In light of program needs to
further expand and diversify IEC activities, the project would
strengthen provincial and district-level audiovisual development
units by increasing their capability to reproduce IEC materials in
line with the decentralized implementation of the IEC program. As
some of the mobile information units introduced in the program under
the first population project have become unserviceable, and to
further develop the provision of IEC services at the village level,
the project would provide about 87 mobile information units.
Finally, in order to reach specific groups of non-acceptors, the
project would help NFPCB intensify its IEC activities in family
planning/health centers by training paramedical personnel in
motivation techniques.
To implement these activities, the project would provide equipment,
supplies, vehicles, and IEC kits. Meanwhile, the GOI is defining in
detail an IEC strategy aimed at exploring new approaches for demand-
generation. This new strategy takes into consideration the NFPCB's
recent policy of stratifying acceptors by target groups and dividing
the country by zones based on program performance. The Government
would complete this strategy plan for Bank review not Later than
December 31, 1985, and thereafter carry out the plan taking the
Bank's comments into account (Schedule 5, para. 7, of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 18 -
td) Population Education. The first population project provided support
for the introduction of populacion education into school curricula
through pilot activities in 30 schools and 30 non-formal education
centers. The second and third projects helped to expand these
activities by training additional teachers and trainers, printing
additional textbooks, producing audiovisual materials, and providing
related fellowships. To complete the incegration of population
education inco both the formal and non-formal education system, the
project would support the training of about 8,000 school supervisors
at provinciaL, district and subdistrict levels and about 7,000
principals of public and private schools, and the orientation of
about 85,000 supervisors, tutors and facilitators in the out-of-
school sector. The project would provide funds for introducing
population education in 10 teacher training institutes and 21
university faculties of teacher education throughout the country and
for training approximateLy 800 teacher educators. It would also
provide funds for the production of suppLementary textbooks,
instructors' handbooks, manuals, teaching kits, other visual aids,
and library books, and for the conducting of monitoring and
evaluation activities. The school and teacher education program
will be implemented by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC),
while the out-of-school activities will be carried out by NFPCB in
collaboration with MOEC. The coordination of the formal education
program will be carried out by MOPE. MOEC is expected to assume
full responsibility for carrying out population education activities
in formal and non-formal education streams by the end of the
project. To ensure the transfer of full responsibility for these
educational programs to MOEC, the Government will ensure that a plan
of action for such transfer would be prepared and submitted to the
Bank by December 31, 1985 (Schedule 5, para. 8, of the draft Loan
Agreement).
(e) Service Delivery in Transmigration Areas. In an effort to reduce
overcrowding in Java and to provide land and employment to the poor,
GOI has pursued a major transmigration program in which families
from Java and Bali are resettled in the Other Islands. To date, the
NFPCB has not been active in these transmigration areas and the
social infrastructure inputs provided by the Ministry of
Transmigration satisfy only the communities' basic needs and need to
be expanded and upgraded. Increasing concern for the health and
nutrition conditions and the quantity and quality of health
services, including family planning and nutrition services, in these
areas, has led the GOI decided to strengthen these basic services.
Because of its proven experience and capability with village-level
activities in difficult conditions, NFPCB was designated as the
coordinating agency.
Specifically, the project would provide for the establishment of a
Village Contraceptive Distribution Center in each transmigration
resettlement unit, including trained fieldworkers, village volun-
teers, and informal community leaders, which would be the focal
point for organizing, coordinating, and delivering services. Exist-
ing health center staff, fieldworkers, volunteers, and community
leaders would receive training in integrated service delivery.



- 19 _
Special training macerials would be developed focusing on the
transmigration setting. In addition, immunization and nutrition
services would be provided to the settlers. The project would
provide vehicles for district-level supervisors and fieldworkers,
technical assistance, nutrition inputs, supplies and materials. and
funds for conducting baseline surveys and monitoring and evaluation
activities. The NFPCB would provide contraceptives from its own
resources and the MOH would similarly provide vaccines. The project
would cover five of the 20 transmigrant-receiving provinces (Riau,
Jambi, Bengkulu, South Sumatra, and West Kalimantan), based on
population size, numbers and proximity of transmigration settlement
units, and their length of existence.
(f)  Research.  With the expansion of the program to the Other IsLands,
the progressive shift of program emphasis to the community, and the
policy to improve the quality of services, NFPCB's research activi-
ties require reorientation and strengthening. To this end, the
NFPCB aims to strengthen the monitoring of trends in prevalence and
continuation rates by geographicaL area, contraceptive method, and
the effectiveness of program inputs. High priority would also be
given to biomedical research, particularly to contraceptive
technology. To enable NFPCB to implement this expanded research
program, the project would provide initial development support to
the NFPCB's three new research centers in the form of funds required
to finance individual research projects and funds for training of
the three centers' professional staff. It would also provide tech-
nical assistance and appropriate office, library and documentation
facilities (to be housed together with the new training center).
NFPCB's three centers would each develop, not later than December
31, 1985, a program of research activities and projects in
accordance with a timetable and criteria satisfactory to the Bank
(Schedule 5, para. 9(a), of the draft Loan Agreement). In this
connection, a provisional list of topics to be included in these
research programs has already been identified. In addition, the
following activities would be undertaken: (a) contraceptive
prevalence and continuation rate surveys every two years by an
appropriately qualified independent agency(s), in consultation with
and funded by the NFPCB through the project, with the report of the
first such survey submitted to the Bank not later than March 31,
1986; (b) a financial analysis of NFPCB's medium- and long-term
financial resource requirements, the results of which shall be
furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1986; and (c) a review of the
achievements of NFPCB's family plAnning program and the long-term
implementation strategy for the program by December 31, 1986, under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (Schedule 5, para. 9(b),
(c), and (d), of the draft Loan Agreement).
Part B: Assisting the MOPE
The MOPE, established in 1983, is responsible for population policy
formulation and coordination of the broader aspects of population
planning at the national level. To enable it to perform these functions
effectively, MOPE would like to build up its capacity as well as that of
existing population research institutions and private organizations. The



- 20 -
proposed project would support three major activities: (a) the
development of a Population Plan of Action, (b) the strengthening of 10
regional university population study centers, and (c) the strengthening
of non-governmental organizations in the area of population.
(g) Indonesian Population Plan of Action. The International Population
Conference held in Mexico City in August 1984 adopted a World
Population Plan of Action, which, inter aLia, encourages individual
countries to adopt national plans to guide their activities over the
next 15 years or so. The MOPE, working with other government
agencies, universities, and non-government agencies, plans to
develop a Population Plan of Action for Indonesia to support the
implementation of ongoing population activities in Repelita IV and,
in particular, to assist in the preparation of Repelita V and VI
(1989-99). Being a new agency, the MOPE does not itself have the
staff capacity to develop such plan and this project would provide
funds for consulting services for this purpose.
(h) Population Studies Cencers. In line with GOI's policy of adapting
population policies and strategies to take accounc of regional
cultural differences and as part of a long-term institutional
development plan to strengthen the regional universities to enable
them to effectively carry out demographic research in their respec-
tive regions and to assist the provincial-level planning agencies
(BAPPEDAS), the project would provide fellowships for overseas
training in population and related studies, and funds for research
and operating costs. Since the administration of these fellowships
would involve, in addition to MOPE, 10 different university admini-
strations and the Ministry of Education and Culture, it was agreed
that MOPE would prepare by December 31, 1985 an overall
implementation plan satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 5, para. 10,
of the draft Loan Agreement).
vi) Non-Governmental Organizations. COI's population policy recognizes
the need to inform and educate the public about population issues so
that individuals and the communities in which they live can
eventually assume responsibility for fertility and mortality
reduction, as well as other population-reLated matters. While NFPCB
and MOH are the principal agencies for implementing this policy,
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have an important role to play
in this task, particularly the dissemination of information about
the country's population problems and policies. NCOs work closely
with the people and votrious communities at local levels.  Not only
are they familiar with population needs and priorities at these
levels, but they also enjoy the trust and cooperation of the
people. Thus, they are effective instruments for carrying out
developmental activities at the community level, including
population activities. In an effort to harness their manpower
resources for implementing population activities, GOI has decided to
develop NGO capabilities so that they can participate fully in
government population-related programs. Such collaboration between
the Government and NGOs is expected to contribute to the
acceleration of the achievement of demographic and other population-
related goals. To this end, support is provided under the project



- 21 -
for training in population-related subjects of members of NGOs and
for the supply of training materials. The beneficiaries of this
assistance are affiliated to a confederation of NCOs known as FISKA,
i.e. che Indonesian Forum for Self-reliance in Population. Under
the coordination and supervision of MOPE, the support provided in
the project would enaole these NGOs to train about 300 of their
leaders and to conduct population-related activities.
*         Project Management and Implementation
46.       The NFPCB and the MOPE wouLd be responsible for execution of Parts A
and B, respectively, of the project, as follows:  the NFPCB would itself
implement the field operations development, staff development, IEC, research
and population education components (the latter in consultation with the
Ministry of Education and Culture), and coordinate implementation of the
transmigration component with the Ministries of Health and Transmigration; and
the MOPE would implement the population plan of action, support the population
studies centers, and NGO components of the project. The Government would
establish two Steering Groups to coordinate the carrying out of Parts A and B
of the project, consisting of representatives of the relevant Ministries. The
NFPCB Steering Group would be chaired by NFPCB's Chairman; the MOPE Steering
Group by the Assistant Minister for Population of MOPE. Conditions of
effectiveness are the establishment of these Steering Groups, the appointment
of sufficient numbers of appropriate staff to the project, the appointment of
architectural/engineering consultants to assist in the preparation of building
designs, and the acquisition of all land and rights in respect of land for the
30 sites required for the first year's civil works (Section 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The project would be implemented over the five-year period
September 1985 to September 1990.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
47.       The total project cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at
US$94.4 million, of which US$41.4 million (44Z) is the foreign exchange
component. Allowance has been made for physical contingencies equal to 10% of
civil works as well as price contingencies for foreign costs estimated at 5Z
for 1985, 7.52 for 1986, and 8% for 1987-89; and for local costs estimated at
8% for 1985-89. Civil works costs are based on current GOI guidelines which
have been reviewed by the Bank and found reasonable. Estimates for equipment
are based on equipment lists which are reasonable in scale and cost. The
costs of in-service training courses are based on prevailing GOI local travel
and per diem allowances.
48.       The proposed Bank loan of US$46.0 million would finance 60% of total
project cost (less the cost of vehicles of US$18.2 million, including contin-
gencies, purchased under reserved procurement). The loan will cover US$25.8
million in foreign exchange costs (the total, except the foreign exchange
component of the cost of the vehicles (US$15.6 million) to be provided by the
GOI) and US$20.2 million, or 38% of local costs. The balance of US$48.4
million would be financed out of annual GOI budget appropriations. Budgetary
aLlocations for project expenditures in 1985/86 have already been made. In
order to ensure the prompt implementation of the project, the GOI would make
adequate budgetary provisions in a timely manner for project expenditures for
each succeeding fiscal year (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
49.       The annual incremental recurrent costs generated directly by the
project when fully operational woull amount to about Rp 3 billion, represent-
ing 0.4% of NFPCB's total projectea 1985186-l988/89 expenditures.  These
additional costs, mainly for vehicle operation and maintenance expenditures,
would not constitute an undue burden on NFPCB's budget.
Procurement
50.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
PROJECT EXPENDITURES BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(USS million)
TotaL
Cost
Not          including
ICB     LCB     Other   applicable   contingencies
Land Acquisition                    -       -         -        3.5             3.5
Civil Works                        9.2    14.0        -         -             23.2
(9.2)  (14.0)     (-)        (-)          (23.2)
Equipment, Vehicles and Materials  -      18.8      18.6        -             37.4
C-)   (10.5)    (0.4)      C-)           (10.9)
Technical Assistance, Training,    -        -         -       30.3            30.3
Surveys, and Studies             (-)     (-)       C-)     (11.9)          (11.9)
Total                       9.2    32.8     18.6       33.8            94.4
(9.2)  (24.5)   T(.4)    (11.9)           (46.0)
Note:     Figures in parentheses refer to loan allocations.
51.       The contract for NFPCB's new national training center would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICE) procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines. For the 84 district offices, experience in
Indonesia has shown that such contracts, averaging US$100,000 equivalent, do
not attract foreign bidders unless grouped into very large packages. Since
this would not be feasible under this project because of their geographical
dispersion, contracts for district offices would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, which are satisfactory to the
Bank. Vehicles, consisting of about 170 minibuses, 87 mobile information
units, 6,550 motorcycles, and 48,200 bicycles, totalling $18.2 million
(including contingencies) would be procured by the GOI using local
procedures. The GOI would provide these vehicles in accordance with an agreed
timetable (Annex to Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement). Most of the



- 23 -
equipment and furniture (medical, office, audiovisual, training), amounting to
US$13.3 million, is diverse, speciaLized and would be required for facilities
and/or services spread throughout Indonesia. As it would be difficult to
package this equipment in lots suitable for ICB, it would be procured, as was
done in the previous population projects, through competitive bidding
advertised locally under procedurts acceptable to the Bank. Foreign
suppliers, who would not be excluded from bidding, are well represented in
Indonesia and there are sufficient suppliers to ensure adequate competition.
SmaLl packages costing less than US$50,000 and limited to a total of
US$400,000 equivalent would be procured locally through prudent shopping,
after receiving three price quotations.
5Z.       Contract Review.  Civil works contracts and each contract for
equipment estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more, will be subject to
prior review by the Bank. All other contracts would be subject to review by
the Bank after contract award.
Disbursements
53.       Disbursements would cover: 100% of the cost of civil works; 100X of
the foreign expenditures for directly imported materials and equipment, 902 of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) or 65% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally (excluding support to NGOs); 100% of the cost of
consultants' services and overseas fellowships; and 20% of the cost of local
training (excluding support to NGOs). To the extent practicable, withdrawal
applications would be aggregated in an amount of US$100,000 equivalent or
more, prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement. Withdrawal applica-
tions would be supported by full documentation, except for expenditures on
training and materials, which would be reimbursed against certified statements
of expenditures. Documentation for these statements would be retained by the
NFPCB and the MOPE and would be made available for review by the Bank during
project supervision missions. GOI would ensure that: (a) accounts, statements
of expenditures, and financial statements for each fiscal year would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and (b) certified
copies of the audited accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year,
together with the auditor's report, would be furnished to the Bank as soon as
possible, but not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.01 the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
54.       Benefits.  Given the project's institutional development objectives,
it would be difficult, if not impossible, to estimate its direct contribution
to or impact on the reduction of fertility. However, the physical and human
resource investments in Part A of the project, specifically its field opera-
tions, staff training, IEC, and population education components would be an
important contribution towards reducing the crude birth rate. In addition,
Part B and the research component of Part A, would directly help the NFPCB and
the MOPE, respectively, to develop the increasingly diverse and innovative
population and family planning policies, strategies, and activities that would
be required to further reduce Indonesia's rate of population growth. Through
the transmigration service delivery component of Part A, about 268,000 couples



- 24 -
and about 805,000 children in the transmigration areas are expected to  ienefit
from integrated family planning and health services.
55.       Risks.  Given the strong political commitment the program enjoys,
the semi-autonomous institutional status of NFPCB, the calibre of the
managerial and operational staff and the satisfactory implementation of the
three earlier population projects, the risk in terms of physical implemen-
tation is minimal. As far as the program itself is concerned, the main
obvious risk is that, despite the proven experience of the NFPCB, the
attainment of NFPCB's demographic goals could be delayed, which in turn would
necessitate a review of program strategies and requirements. To this end,
such a review is proposed in paragraph 45(E).  Another risk is that effective
field coordination among the different implementing agencies, particularly
between the NFPCB and the MOH, might not be fully achieved. The role of MOPE
in coordinating policy level and the broader activities of population policy
is expected to mitigate these risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Conditions of effectiveness are: (a) the
establishment of Steering Groups to coordinate the implementation of the
project; (b) the assignment to the project of qualified staff in adequate
numbers to manage and supervise the civil works being carried out under the
project; (c) the employment of architectural/engineering consultants to assist
in the preparation of building designs for the project; and (d) the
acquisition of all land and rights in respect of land for the 30 sites needed
during the first year of the project (para. 46). Other special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 15, 1985
Washington, D.C.



A-25lll
- 25 -Page 1 of 5 pages
tWuamMA               - mClu TIOICATOS o&T& Sm.
SIIDOURRIAOU           _ SO'        3ZPtUEUCE AS UPS (IIORI D AVAOU) S
IIO3T                    (M    WEN1T NIINIS) 
UCCIITNZN IClDIA                    NIDVLE luKLC
ZUCTgNA         ASIA & PACInC          LAT. ARIC & CAR
SAM (S0UWW uq. t)
TOTAL                              1919.3      1919.3   1919.3
ARICULTU7AL                         296.5      307.     317.3
o  M  CAPEI (ISS)                       90.0      150.0    530.0              1091.2                   2106.6
umt CAmrma "a ant&
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALI3T)        63.0        Ua.0    19l.0             567.3                     995.5
R1                     toana -OP     ITU L v smsn
POPULATWN,NID-TEAR (THOIAIDB)    94650.0   116201.0  15253.0
URIA POPULATION (Z OP TOTAL)         14.6       17.1      22.3              34.7                     66.5
POPULATION PROECSIONS
POPULATION IN TRA 2000 (HILL)                          212.0
STATIONAMr POPULATION (HILL)                           370.1
POPULATION       I                                       1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 0.                         49.3        60.5     T7.9              261.9                     35.7
KR SQ. SM. AGE. LAND              319.3       373.4    471.0             1735.1                     92.4
POPULATEON ACE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 us                           40.7        44.0     39.3               39.0                     39.9
15-64 Ts                           56.2        53.4     57.3              57.6                      56.0
65 AND A7OVE                        3.1         2.5      3.1                3.3                      4.1
POPULATION CREI RATE (2)
TOTAL                               2.1         2.0      2.3                2.3                      2.4
URAS                                3.7         3.6      4.5               4.3                       3.6
CRUDE BXRTS RATE (PER TOUS)          4.2        41.0      33.6              30.1                      31.3
CRUDE DBATS RATZ (PR TROOS)          22.9       17.6      13.0               9.5                      8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.7        2.7       2.2               2.0                      2.0
TAHIL' LANNING
ACCT0. ARIAL (TOuS)                  ..       181.1   3051.0
USERS (Z OF HARRIED WumN)            ..          ..     53.0 Ie           52.7                      40.3
INDEX OF F,OD 13OD. PUR CAITAPl
(1969-71-100)                        93.0      102.0    117.0              123.0                    114.3
PER CAPITA SUM    OF
CALORIt (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)        36.0        96.0    110.0              114.4                    110.6
PRINS (CRAIS PUR DAT)              36.0       ".0       49.0              57.0                      67.3
OF WH0ICH AlUML  AND PULSE        6.0         6.0      7.0 Id            14.1                     34.1
CRUD (AMS 1-6) WEATS RATE            22.9       16.9      13.0               7.2                      5.7
IJFC EXPECT. AT 3I2l (TUSS)          41.2       47.0      53.3              60.4                     64.7
1INFANT IRIRT. RATE (PER TROUS)     149.9      120.9    102-0               66.3                     60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (tPrt)
rTAL                                 ..         3.0     23.0               37.0                     65.4
URBAN                                ..        10.0     41.0              54.8                     78.1
RURAL                                ..         1.0     16.0              26.4                       6.2
A CCSS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TO.TAL                                         15.0     23.0               41.3                     52.9
UURBAN                                                           ..       19.0      20.0              47.4                     67.0
WRRAL                                *         14.0     z4.0              33.3                      24.5
POPULATION PER PMSICIM            46780.0    26510.0  11530.0 /e          7749.4                   1917.7
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON            45100 If  7680.0   2300.0              2460.4                    315.8
POP. PER IOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1360.0      1650.0   1720.0 /e         104.2                     367.2
URBAN                             250.0          ..    700.0 jt          551.2                    411.5
RUIRAL                               ..          ..   3160               2394.6                   2636.3
AINUSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         ..      22.4 lb           27.0                     27.3
AVERACE SIZE OF NOUSEHOLD
TOAL                                4.6         4.8
URBMN                               4.9         5.3
RURAL                               4.3         4.7
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROGM
TOTAL                                ..         1.5
URBAN                                           1.6
RURAL                                ..         1.5
ACCZSS TO ELECT. CE OF DWELING)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                    Page 2 of 5 pages
IrOun                 - SOCIAL INICATS  DATA SRUT
3IUnmuA                            *nmUnm   own (cIuzo  AVEUE) a
HOST                    (MOST uc5  1S1M T) A
t   UtlUS        IDDLIZ tI               IDLZ
196d0lb-    197tos isfzmIALb       ASIA 1 PACFIC          LAT. ANKICA4  CAR
ADJUSTZD ZUTROLLISH  IOl
PRIMAn    TOTAL                    71.0       77.0    100.0              102.0                    103.4
AULE                    86.0        33.0    106.0              tOg.B                    106.3
rmuA                     58.0       71.0      94.0              98.2                    104.3
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    6.0       15.0      30.0              46.0                     43.2
MALE                     10.0       20.0      36.0              48.7                     42.3
FEMALE                   3.0        10.0      24.0              43.1                     44.5
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SEONDAR)            20.4       22.1      13.4              17.5                     33.6
PUPIL-TEACHLR RATIO
PRINART                            39.0       29.0      32.0              31.8                     30.1                     -
SECONDARY                          14.0       13.0      16.0              23.5                     16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)              39.0       56.6      62.0              72.9                     79.5
COIIn
PASSENCER C&RS/THOUSAND POP           1.1        2.1       4.4              10.1                     46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         7.2       21.9      42.4             113.6                    225.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             0.1        0.8       9.6              50.1                    107.2
NEbSPAM  (DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            11.0         ..      17.7 I            539                      63.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCEICAPITA       2.8         ..       0.8 A21           3.4                      2.8
LAm Foam
TOTAL LBOR FORCE (THOUS)          34791.0    41090.0  54689.0
FMLE (PERCENT)                     27.8       30.9      29.1              33.5                     23.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              75.0       66.0      58.0              52.2                     31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.0       10.0      12.0              17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              36.7       35.4      35.6              38.7                     32.2
HALE                               54.2       49.5      51.1              50.9                     49.3
FEIALE                             20.0       21.6      20.7              26.6                     15.2
ECONOIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.2        1.3       1.2               1.1                      1.4
.M DISll        1N
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOE
RECEIVED SY
HIGHEST 5I O EOUSEHOLDS                          -      23.5 A            22.2
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            * -         *      49.4[3j           48.0
LOUST 201 OF HOUSEsOLDS               -                  6.6               6.4
LOUST 401 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..      14.4              15.5
n n TARGT   GoUs
ESTIMATED ABSOLUE POVERTY INCME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..      124.0 /i  124.0 1/          188.6                    288.2
RURAL                                ..      106.0   i10.0 7W            152.0                    184.0
ESTIMED RELATIVE POVETY INCME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URAN                                 ..         ..    119.0 li           177.9                    522.8
RURAL                                ..         ..       a.o71          164.6                    372.4
ESTIKATED POP. BELCW ABSOLUTE
POVERMT INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URAN                                 ..       51.0 IL  26.0 1             23.4
RURAL                                ..       59.0 7    4.0 7W            37.7
N. T AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N o TE S
/a  The group averages for each Indicator are population-wighted aritbsetic man.. Coverage of countries  ang the
indicators depends on availability of data md is not aniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted. -Dsta for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; fsta for 1970r between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Mot Recent Emtlatm' between 1980 end 1982.
le  1983; /d 1977; /e 1979; /f 1962; I. 1976; A  1975; /i 1980 prices.
JUNE. 1984



-27-                                                       ANNEXI
a.....    ia  itemety       U -at          ~                  *~~*Page  3- of  5  pages
~~~l. '__   r  ft   .9 .4-th-daamass ateytmasme  a  asNhma..                                               VAe fmt11ma my. s-etmae  wicstusily
d-amcLc reacacas  t.O  15.. IA..tcidsiitmad isilsiatte   d im11414a nfI Piftecs bisaim m rta  EUa   na.ieesam    ai.es  niES
ssbj.I sAfAAHE N-tap' P.r1141 taaI.    0l1 RaPsnWse  arm  ftest. 91"151.  is  Obe  sgtE, ad ea11t. IIAss  a. obar.. kiumac Wi "s lamr saaa-mls.metl
smttUIlstm. t. et. r.4-rs- ie. aW. at. .And.aas at..2. isisu -au"e ensasta ewb tt .me jdusIa.. VA." Aip' WAR. ftIty orl afMr,"ts. Is
gras  b. daletf- its 151mg... IBMw lt. .Ascta  1  a.tm sfeee-   m  gte a.dinine dapsa"co mut   sllattlty .1 dol. oaI I. Ma MAIMr. Grtsss   "at m
t..mis   Ac v.1.4'   a- .s. s  Am  iit.... . Mflt.q. 1i5 mc.tagc  al city -e.it te -a -.ut.a a. telne  -   ISla-m'  ti..   en-   tt-,  ak.tm 
asia a..                                                  t..mtaut~~~~~~~~~U915WygctEa.ac.  atPeei: t dinedd by-k of   prntttgea
a.I=   iics-: m.b.a    bad ttt.. jwst-s   eIte tIi. Wsitn  tiM.                   .aeisaa   -Ic tIgris.
cc1. Isla. .s  eat1 it..                                                                 bet ten-t -m ea.etatm. qttmstl       ...mca   p"I.tdtcl WmLmtp.tty  =maste
ts                                                                                                               -- cay a  Inamasa~~MLIM    W-Id    AVI%y-   VA[-  &. maeltessamutl. teisst  iwiis  sett 
~~~~~~~A   scrts.   s.   saiihdr-   m                                                =notim. sei,ceie  cudaesqtri-eIe   aaaae
teas, a       . tnt a..             'ALstwl anmatPa.t.alima.isd.ue , diaaktjs"
IVM. -d 1;1 IVA..                                                                       ~~~~                         ~~~~~~~~~~T. cWtmas
a.         I isty aa ties. acts,O a19M.cMi-b.uarn
diicni   irutan.5   ar   atg     t act ei.       v-.      I  ait.tu .9 at                ad ct.t. a6.  -i..  a ma-i.- tW su law          say , is maNftclds S
-M-AI-trtet an.. ace. .d am: is....                                                    ate tea-.td is. .gletuaat enea..
--da AsT.mpIA-    W, j-A1 enspMyIatfta VrsjAal.ac  -  en   -am                           k  ase   ..ye   e  t sattes  adsrs  es s -       im-   snleni-A-
cekea   tnt  a en.Lit. sm"sny  ubtit  as PP.1                                  t.atnlal..stas.tte   ctn..ann- icatmL
.-. W. lt p..n"s.t  9.. tcs1ttty MaE .1.. tea  uts- .-it.                             .9t"at. -%.rt    -a  --.t aaltss  iC-p-1aci.s.
-cat-    eris s ft Par9 ftUtl   ae.dtq is -c   leat A" pota tat,
,L-t"i A.ct.rac -    u.s.% tatytsu.  s..aaa  en  I4te. et-
t.i  r _srtetau   ao NLtctilt   t.    .,d ice.ctui   main.V .                        MA     - %L
It=tear smtcrts  - Ii -   ma sIte  as- ad n.-cenu . -untiur                               i~i~i ufF.ca   et      sA. a.ei.sdrst
drjn'c  aaIcIt. Steaatpplas. -     V          arttseed- is                     .t.s. s  :1m-tata  a,  fct-ete ate I ta  ..iataiit.. at..-
MIls        Lbm'c.  dealtM...A    t6 Isr      ftlity  racc  s rcpara AL                                       4usl'di-asr a-..a a     -vts  tr."  Iniiru
_Mucsse   A.cal  --:5e tiasty ts  gsp.Lau-    gtsas -  . - sstt5s p-i.t.ia                          11 -- .ttta  -  Ita-at. IM.aaetes       1 tiuatc." i
tab. an  ctice tIc .cutaecat=.'urate lea ra.sa.dsai. MI                                 c..c.,i        M sclc sd!.:P=C                 -          -
ao,t.s   w  a..    Aua-u Amurti   uI.,   -aciise       .aW14is  aciatst
te Mcs.  I.tit                                                                      rrlrs1atc6   b   M-4 t  ~1 aS itciat  is2 m A.cim. -r  en..etsa te.-u_
t.tt aal  ct. aisa.ad -isadat.                                               d.aat -lcrrs rais tL.r-a--I - Uss.tctcha  s  ad.. .l.ia
'sciatan-c e'scer. .ar.scC    Camtar. l-a pstss sm- 3i-.  51                O Tlt
.rets. - ts.  as          =1rsi - 0t_ - s.-aaecs   eas  ct                              taau   eaerlplt mar _Utamd .ci pa.st--V    emisAc
y-  ~    ~     -Asa ..r  te.ce.a                     .t  m.  iI    -tl.a at ..  4m  ciacmafI Al                                       csnLI stn.,ut
t. .ssm   tardti    aiti  i  cctsa   t.sissuui                                    tc...'       -=ttis5     tsa stncasc  -nitn0      nsMIa.ular .n'    -16
rat tiarel`e-CSl Seetrs.       I w itII fttnna-   atrE m  t.s.tsm    it   .tA It -Lys.~. a   sa  . te.tt
at tflftausta e. ctnAu  as sotat.  rac                        fnite                    Chasm i       Wnc  I uth.. st ati - -r tsar    tai-  bi c- A5
tear-.                                                       .aiteau acid attsg urn.. p~~~~~~~~actd InIasact  caadaa t- it-ste     a
tally  Mae     -bt  'acr-sac ntcia  esl B-   ars taa  5  f.,rs                            staleMAsc
r-tildasn Atars. -U cLmmraassc  isqp altntc  t.snc. InM  am                                                                               41-
"Iu"   .c.ru-.an   sasta  itam   s   ma.                                                 t1,1abot.54A-.Ad I       (idil.    asislt d amIasem. At.. t-sut-c
ue 'Csb-nartscM.tWs.ual    t te                                                                                 =. am55 a  tCl dalc
.ci pmsa.riacat its _a tre aec   -rankL cIAtl. aa  a                      ~          !i I c       a W,        rtHIc  Vass.-  tarsaim. *tsts    r
aqelsac tctead ita~erl alt  a  StIl       -mitiaflit  (s-L.                   tadatar -utct  -Lt.irc t...s   .ts.le   ntetr
Itacd a-. -I) e,         padisa. yre       ats  titi. i*                                                       -ft)   EAadastep  a  teak eec.1
icia.                                                                           tanittatt :e-- . sct (cits- t -Lta. M   s.    a tart    - iectci   as"
-n  aesitta  1 cam      lsrtta aetilts  . sa.my ,e   sei.prpr.ta   4tacLz. cj    A-- Pmt                          cc.a ii st1 sa  A.sntitt
icy   Isllate  ..tleac.a.,c dnc.t-t  -adtie  tsr.ia                               cs  - -i    i tea. i-ts. lA.-  1.m  mas acliD    pitiyl  t- n
Aat.a   .- Is s      -u..ea a-eet'qs-ad       WM-ac   is    ca.                &meiftfli  es-sat  "trtA.cIt at im  pisi. Me    assn tI  .ini". 
4                            esassLils~~~~~A est   aeeesa.atc   It61           dltrtcta   ilci..e.1                       ea'iasa  as       wC.: Cr. clsc  saR."   t-,9.= twu
aitsa.aciaflb   eeba 49- _ ptacla.ei end  is.                    -aifl                                   g."  -         -itld   .rtCt .-Ir a-- a  c  c   teri
h-bdst-  a  masts- esdsc       - pnsleas.t 1ltt -cs. c . tsp       Im ala.s             i J~i. U.      il.iitisms  lsc
a--4 lacbsl tel   ia-Iel. ae   a  lee ic..  aMj-c..It   -m s                                            Mny`Rs5imnse, 
-  antya    'sep.  -s.  a aayt a  t     ma          --sa. itts                       21-p.rs.. n't. -.aI 20 ysstst   -arr I 4 r- Mo..5 p.ctin at-t csti
-lenAc t met tastraas -`tab,tOd Pa     -. by   m   tsIi    NbIe   ..r- Scmticsc                        .8            nt WM I_                 -1          -.
cliesact -5 IS  er at P tat        -dcel  L.r at a  as ar-a - issa   a                         ----     -- -
asts  rad Pci Spyir;teem-i, trn   9-p-nasi.e..recusiad actee testty 1 t-ca  ..  e    - ca_" .ltl-at.  a   ei
Catii...1-1  idta. ca tsaece    Mn!isst p.end         nsa- - _     Ic        Isaaadket            rt. -t  Pia   at    i   ttmt-  spla  _a ei -
o  tc   -   u.,  a-Vtime. c 'tnlab  en cIsc. Ptsrf  ismItas                       e   sii        sct    c    Ie           .    4 emp  s    y
smatc   ire iart    Pt. It.  ustta  aces  ten a1  tea deAwssa   mn5   t.tti.5tcSqlI.drtitct
rca amassp..tas - lac   -an              en   Ee els     a% dare. O                     1 17    ~.a.  1                1.1- .' K_                    .
crac td ibat' b-itt.. umtti  "iMaail-Aat amen. ", hd               - rst. --                                               M    M      MS"-  "'.    -
rt W-p intl  tut. M cic   a  eri   x-Ip. meent nes  us-i acsCsstttsscaasaSbaite
A..   .pty ibCb  sIsa  - t'ms. acafasenIcssrittmmud  I.e                                              1AM -T   wotrett 311 c dcl-t           tjria   .st.
settisy  mliii a. Pataiten 55 tt.tr.b dtacyattle. p.p.lit1i..s-h-tsar
trmaa      .ttclatk . 1- cip.ta- ca   atceIn Plt  -seanft                                               '
trc   -cis   5cin  eatl    tti   nabciss   tta
lm.c. Ict remfrat        .i.lsmccscdutp  t.  b   esf.
tat- da te iambt t. ci- ---tar nt1s.19  ld-
p.tusL- r at4' -oa Pecse-atc p..ltitr -       -asia ilpWA-L-  w 
tat e.ii. Otet  a dtaptc,  sue us. slut- VIAI.aa.i             ir
ad Ib-I-t by  tc-atpac  "             Wpn    us u - sa    pIt pttt  -a



ANNEX I
Population       155.8  illllon (nid-1983)                - 28 -                                                sage 4 of 5 Page8
GNP per Caplta: US$560 (1983 estimate)
INDONESEA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                            Annual grawth rate (Z) lb
current prices)                 Actual                                 ProJected
Indicator                           1982          19BU   1981          79Hz   1953   I984/-  i985   198    19V 198 L955   1919  90
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /c         78,344         9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    5.5    2.6    5.0    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agrlculture                     20,651         5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                        29,896        12.5    8.5   -6.4    5.0    7.3    0.2    5.4    5.6    4.5    3.0    3.5
Services                        27,797        11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Consumption                       62,731        12.4   15.8    3.0    2.0    5.6    1.3    3.4    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.1
Gross investuent /d               18,908        18.9   11.1    8.5   -5.0   -2.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of CNFS                   19,508        -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.8    1.5    2.9    6.3    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.2
Imports of GNFS                   22,803        15.1   27.1    3.2  -1.1   -5.0    0.5    1.3    2.5    2.6    3.0    3.4
Cross national savings            12,273        33.2  -20.0  -15.9   22.2   16.7   -1.6   12.2    8.2    7.1    5.4    5.5
PRICES
ClTrdeflator (1981 - 100)                         91    100    113    131    142    154    166    179    194    209    226
Exchange rate (Rp per US$)                       627    632    661    909  1,026
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)
(at current  rices)                         Averse  Innual increase (S) /b
196_   197U   1975   i980   1985   1990        1900-70   1970-7S   1975-8(1   198U 85 198S-0_- _ 
Gross domestic product          100    100    100    100    100    100          3.9        8.4       7.4        4.1       4.6
Agriculture                    54     47      32     25     26      25        2.7        4.1       3.3        4.1       3.7
Industry                       14     18      34     43     38      37        5.2       12.0       9.8        2.8       4.4
Services                       32     35      35     32     36      38        4.8        9.7       9.5        5.6       5.5
Consumption                    91     89      79     71     76      74        4.1        8.4       9.2        5.6       4.0
Gross investment /d             8     14      20     21     20      22        4.8       18.3      12.2        4.5       5.4
Exports of GNFS                13     13      23     31     25      25        3.6        9.2       2.9      -1.2        4.0
Imports of CNFS               -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -20          3.2       22.1      14.0        2.6       2.6
Gross national savings          8      9      17     26     20      22        6.1       23.1      14.2        0.5       7.7
As Z of GDP
1960              1970               1975               1980               1984
PUBLIC FINANCE /e
current revenue                               11.7               10.1              17.4               22.5               20.1
Current expenditures                          14.0               8.4                9.9               12.8               11.8
Surplus (+) or defilcit C-)                   -2.3              +1.6               +7.5               +9.7               +8.3
Capital expenditure                           n.a.               5.0               11.3               13.0                7.4
Foreign financing                              0.2                3.5               3.7                3.3               -0.9
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (C)                           4.5              7.6              7.1            3.8              4.8
Annual CNP per capita grcvth rate (Z)                2.4              5.1              4.7             1.7             2.8
Annual energy consumption growtb rate (i)            2.2             11.2             11.0            1.3              4.7
ICOR                                                 2.2              2.2              3.3            5.2              4.4
Marginal savings rate                                0.30             0.48             0.28           0.03             0.35
Isport elasticity                                    1.2              2.8             0.84            0.63             0.57
/a Estimates.
7F At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
Te At market prices.
7T Fixed investment; stock changes are included in consumption.
7e  Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.                             East Asia and Pacific Region
March 29, 1985



Population    I  155.8 million (mid-1913)                   - 29 -                                               ANER I
GNP pmr Captta:  US$5GO (1983 estimate)                                                                          rage 7  of S pag.s
INDONIBXA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DENT
tMlaJloUU U55 at current prices)
Actual                                  Projected
A'Wu     IVUL     lSffZ     lYUJ      LO4>                        ?,lo  10  1S5  h
BALANCE OF PAYMNTS/b
I.  zxi  rte                                     22,885   22,994   18,672   19,816   19,983  21,115   23,043   26,331   36,460
toa  DI and LNG (grosm)                      17,297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14,082  14,481   15,483   17,784   23.801
nb)   onail                                  5,588    6,170    3,928    5,367    5,901   6,634    7,560    8,547   12,659
2.  Xoporta (including net NFS)                 -17,589  -22,570  -22,339   -19,583  - 188 -19,070  -20,752  -23,015  -31,705
(a)  Oil sector                             -4,050   -5,407   -4,802   -3,939   -3,552  -3,823   -4,216   -4,776   -6,893
'a                (,b)  Nonoil imports                        -11,837  -14,561  -45,824  -14,174  -13,225 -13,807  -14.990  -16,535  -22,494
(c)  NFS (nut)                              -1.702   -2,602   -1,713   -1,570   -1,441  -1,440   -1,546   -1,704   -2,313
3.  Remource balance                              5,296       424   -3,667       233   -1,795   2,045    2,291    3 316    4,755
4.  Factor services                              -3.165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,669   -4,620  -5,003   -5,395   -6,049   -7,487
(a)  Interest public debt                      -823     -994   -1.145   -1,256   -1,499  -1,734   -1,958   -2,211   -2,747
I                 (b)  Other (net)                             -2,342   -2,216   -2,428   -3,413   -3,121  -3.269   -3,437   -3,838   -4,740
5.  Capital grants                                   76        67       105       95       100      110       120      125       150
6.  Balance on current account                    2,207   -Z,719   -7,135   -4,341   -2,725  -2,848   -2,984   -2,608   -2,582
7.  Direct foreign invesetment                      140       142       311      193       250      250      275       300       375
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                             2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    4,189   5,238    5,521    5,649    7,001
(b)  Amortization                              -936   -1053   -1102   -1,295   -2,036  -2,461   -2,534   -3,176   -5,050
(c)  Net dtsbursements                        1,615    1.620    3,090    3.670    2.153   2,777    2,987    2,473    1,951
9.  Other capital (net)                          -1.488       -31       455    2,547       611      -29       175       56       502
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)              -2,736       988    3,279   -2,069       -289    -150      -453      -221      -246
11.  Met offEcial reserves                        -7,342    6,354    3,074    5,144    5,433   5,583    6,036    6,257    6,902
Reserves in months of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                         6.5       4.4      2.1       3.9       4.5     4.4       4.4       4.1       3.3
Memorandum Item
Net toreign assets of thie banking
system/c                                      10,787   10,622    6.392    t.916    9,205   9,355    9,809   10,029   10,674
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                                    9.6       7.4      4.4       6.8       7.5     7.4       7.1       6.6       5.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
uross Disbursments                              2551    2,673    4 192    4,965
Loncesslonal Loans                                'flK 79    tW
Bilateral                                      lT        m        5U7       3W
IDA                                             42       69        78        60
Other
Nonconcessional Loans                            1 892    1 880    3 503    4 357
Himatersi                                     -i'U  m T7U             W    t8O
IBRD                                             331       314      505       489
Other multilateral                                52        85      126       160
Private-source                                 1,421    1,310    2,356    3,219
External Debt
Debt outsEanding and disbursed /e             14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686
Official-source                              Vs.5S TUiW-   it"          7
Private-source                               5,465    5.812    7,403    9,649
Undisbursed debt                               9.481   11.387   12,870   12.975
Debt Service
-rotal servtce payments                        1,759    2,047    2,247    2,551
Interest                                       823      994    1,145    1,256
Payments as Z of exporte/f                       7.7       8.9     12.0      12.9
Average Interest Rare on New Loans (2)             8.1       8.7      9.2       8.8
Ott ieiai-aource                          5.4      7.8       8.8       8.7
Private-source                                  12.4       9.4      9.5       8.8
Average Maturity of New Loans (Years)             18.8      15.5      15.2     15.1
Ot cictal-source                                24.4      20.5     20.6      22.3
Private-source                                   9.8      11.1     11.1      10.3
As ' of debt outstanding at end of 1983
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                               70
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due vithin first year                                                                              7.0
/a  Estimates.
7F  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7F  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
77  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7e  At end of period.                                                                              East Asia and Pacific Region
rF  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                   March 29, 1985



ANNEX II
-30 -                     Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-five Loans and forty-one Credits fully
disbursed                                               1,584.59   642.71          -
L578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                             140.00      -         68.02
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II            65.00      -         29.75
869    1979   Polytechnic                                     -      49.00       11.29
L645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                            77.00      -         23.47
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                       54.00      -         11.26
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                  42.00      -          8.29
L696    1979   Fifth Highway                                123.20      -         19.59
919    L979   Transmigration II                               -      67.00        0.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                             90.00      -         86.27
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                 175.00      -         41.64
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                           35.50       -         9.85
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -      12.00        7.40
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III           99.00      -         34.79
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                  -      45.00       27.57
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                            -      37.6        15.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -      42.00       24.95
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                        116.00      -         53.39
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV            42.00      -         29.72
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research                35.00      -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                  -      30.00        5.94
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                  253.00      -         86.71
1898    1981   SmalLholder Coconut Development               46.00      -         33.06
1904    1981   University Development                        45.00       -        37.30
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                  250.00      -         21.68
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                             22.00      -         13.45
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.00      -         24.13
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-31-                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                           Amounc (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                       Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V             161.00      -        114.44
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development           106.00      -          8.95
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                      85.00       -         75.70
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                               170.00       -         84.11
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                   15.00      -         10.80
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 18'..00      -         85.87
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                       85.00       -         63.11
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                       80.00       -         76.26
2102    1982   Second Textbook                               25.00       -         24.89
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                           37.00      -         21.24
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java              70.00      -         48.11
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution              66.00       -         41.71
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI            68.10       -         59.49
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.00       -         19.69
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering         5.50      -          4.21
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                                300.00       -        256.20
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII          154.60       -        152.32
2235    1983   Provincial Health                             27.00       -         25.97
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation               22.40       -         21.38
2248    1983   Transmigration III                           101.00       -         66.00
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development             30.00       -         28.72
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                        30.60       -         27.49
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                                208.90       -        158.71
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                             63.50       -         61.75
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                           107.40       -        107.13
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                             279.00       -        241.15
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                   63.30       -         62.84
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar          79.20       -         53.91
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                   43.00       -         41.38
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.             89.00       -         85.34
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                           240.00       -       235.37
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                       39.65       -         39.15
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development           204.70       -       204.14
2431    1984   Second Swamp ReclAmation                      65.00       -         64.84
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                             210.00       -        209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND) /a                              50.00       -        50.00
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00       -         77.81
|a Not yet effective.



ANNMEX I I
-32 -                        Page 3iof 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (USS million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation /a        11.30       -        11.30
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II Ja         131.00      -        131.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          7,020.93   938.48
Of which has been repaid                   -395.81   -17.69
Total now outstanding                     6,625.12   920.79
Amount sold to third party         28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         6,625.12   920.79
Total undisbursed                         3,693.82    98.65   3,792.47
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



33-                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business           ---- (USS million) --
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.5       2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Kanuf. Corp.         Textiles            4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               9.8       1.6       11.4
;973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4       0.7       6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.3       2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics         0.9        -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.      -        0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               -        1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Nanuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4        -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            1.3       0.2       1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9        -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia              Construction
Material         48.0      5.0       53.0
1982/5 P.T. Saseka Celora Leasing Capital Market        5.0       0.3       5.3
1984   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             25.0        -       25.0
Total gross commitments                        143.6     19.6      163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled            107.6      7.4      115.0
Total held by IFC                               36.0     12.2       48.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion) 9.5                    9.5



ANNEX tII
_34                             Page 1 of 2
rNDONESIA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:            20 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:          NFPCB and MOPE
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:               December 1982
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:       September 1984
(e)  Date of completion of negotiation:            March 1985
Cf)  Planned date of effectiveness:                September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would ensure that the following actions are carried
out:
(a) acquisition of 25 project sites not later than December 31, 1985,
and the remaining 29 sites not later than December 31, 1986 (para.
45(a));
(b) a technical feasibility study for the use of citizen band radios to
be completed not later than April 30, 1986 (para. 45(a));
(c) a comprehensive training assessment to be completed not later than
June 30, 1986 (para. 45(b));
(d) an updated information, education, and communications strategy to be
completed not later than December 31, 1985 (para. 45(c));
(e) a plan of action to transfer to MOEC full responsibility for formal
and out-of-school population education programs, such plan of action
to be submi-tted to the Bank not later than December 31, 1985 (para.
45(d));



ANNEX III
35                              Page 2 of 2
(f) a program for the research activities including (i) contraceptive
prevalence and continuation surveys every two years, the first
survey to be submitted to the Bank not Later than March 31, 1986;
(ii) a financial analysis of NFPCB's medium- and long-term financial
resource requirements by December 31, 1986; and (iii) a review of
program achievements and long-term implementation strategy for the
program by December 31, 1986 (para. 45(f));
(g) an overall implementation plan for the overseas training fellowships
included in Part B of the project not later than December 31, 1985
(para. 45 (h)); and
(h) the GOI would provide about 170 minibuses, 87 mobile information
units, 6,550 motorcycles, and 48,200 bicycles in accordance with an
agreed timetable (para. 51).
-4



\>JHAILAND                        10 -1 ;W    -
Soauth  China
\OLm.                                              >                            Sea o              -   -:-~ -: ~ -  :BRUNE-fMft'  .e
I          X          , k  0 gMALAYSIA                        - . :                  .NEi  1                                        _
*Ko.Ic L.mp.            
MALAYSIA                I -Li   4.5
-7 P.konhwu lNSINGAPORE                                                                     -
'-nIIU 4.5 .6,_  _  r-el Z, 3.4.: 
o UERA SE>rsn -                                                '-  _| S'I 2.3 45                            -           -     ,- -- -i.........,.   - 
B >_UC <\ \ OT__*1,N,3,-t                                            - -w ~
!- 11 zE S X S *1,                                                                        -~         :       ~       /               -;
laocstwAn   J.W.|.^SW.SM,                              ;       '    13    v                          9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4' 
- OVINCES:             3-       5#E    KW                                                                          *-(.  ,e          
I2i CWUE"                               M       S      N'                                                                      X)
23zSRTEM UrMAl                        c    a   Y
z  UlTEM xT                 *N      O C                                     r   :.n         C     
4 RIAU
~~~~~~~~~~~ :AAE  SITd-1O'~                      --.                                                          - ur
7gJKULU                                                  J cvao                                              :   -'.
B ~~~w.a                                oT..4.M.    @1.2.~~~~~~0, Z3.
9  JU. JAMICTA                                                       4S
12DX VOSYAICAmTA            A4NUWPRA~                          ..                                             m
JM  TIM                      SWAN IGMJAp4M                       ..'4_
15 NATBiGMMA SUNT             2UfvmwOMini MU                                             -    ~     -
17 IRNlM JAVA                   A SMUWA I SMAW.V.un. \-
19 SULAWIS UTARA                 MUA   .W  K%^34IMANi- 
20 mu~Tc                        aLAM&34 MAIGKURM  & NAUMANMrl- 
22  n.Lin SMTA                  5I*mw"a%BAl                                                         -sa  a
23 KAUNAMMnK                    'wwATA  MALUKUaAw4
25AKJOWANIA SELATAN          C1DcSIADMSU  IMAN JAVA
25 KAJUJANTAN TEN3W
-'       ~~27 'nd:.Rn                                                                                    Ccea
100                                     lOb                                      -rfir



__   *                    w                          IUt~~~~~~~~~~lD 1
INDONESIA
-         ~~~PHILIPPINES-t'..                                                    NDNEI
--               PHILIPP1NE        _._:                              FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Celebes Sea                                                                      --
I~~~~~~- 
c/ ,,1 
>:~~                               ~ ~~~~~~ ' '- I-t
-      3~4A                      Ie 1 i         N
>,                                                                    -  2_-. s.r
41: SZ 34 '  45,6.                                                           io
-  , r  ^   -__    '         d      *., f   _                                         I    ?.a.9
-,-JSUL AWESI*\iS;  ~  -4 ~                                                               t1      *    
SERA N
! -'gm - t\. '  <)-1)t4tfl                                     9~       "   #iRIAN    JAYA                     j 
N~~~~~~~
-,               u                                                                            1 r'
N12                                                                             T   2qD  3?0  -I0   30
APRIL 1985






