DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not F*4Cb Un                       FILE COPY
Report No. 122a-EC
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
June 6, 1973
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
This eport was prepared for official us only by the lank Group. It may not be publihed, quoted
ar citedwithout Bank Goup auwhoton. he luk Group don not sacct repo_dbikty for the
acuxat ortaplataft" of th report.



Currency kauivalents
Currency Uhit - Sucre (S/)
US.           -      S/25.O
S/ 1-                US$ O.04
S/ 1,00 0  -        US$ 40,000
Abbreviations and Acronyma Used
BC            -      Banco Central del Ecuador
CV-CFN        -      Comisi6n de Valores - Corporaci6n Financiera
Nacional
COFIEC        -      Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S. A. - Corporaci6n
Financiera
Financieras   -      CV-CFN and COFIEC



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA ON FINANCIERAS                                            i
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSICNS                                             ii
I.   INTRODUCTION                                                         1
The First Bank Loan (721-EC)                                         1
Cbjectives of the Proposed Loan                                      1
II.   THE ECONOMIC SETTING                                                 2
General Outlook                                                      2
Effect of Government Policies on the Industrial Sector               2
Financing of Industry                                                b
Interest Rates                                                       5
III.   COFIEC:  CONDITION AND PERFORMANCE                                   6
Organization                                                         6
Resources                                                            8
Financial Results                                                    8
Operations                                                          11
Prospects                                                           12
IV.   CV-CFN:  CONDITION AND PERFORMANCE                                  13
Organization                                                        13
Resources                                                           15
Financial Results                                                   15
Operations                                                          17
Prospects                                                           19
V.   PROPOSED BANK LOAN                                                  20
The Project                                                         20
Allocation of the Loan                                              21
Interest Rate                                                       21
Sub-loan Conditions                                                 22
VI.   AGREEMETS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                 22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed
of Messrs. Neil Hughes and Andre Cracco of the DFC Projects Division, LAO
Regional Office, which visited Ecuador during November 1972 and February 1973.






LIST OF ANNEXES
GENERAL
1.   ECUADOR:  Industrial Development Law (Main Provisions).
2.   ECUADOR:  Legal Interest and Rediscount Rates.
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
3.   List of Major Shareholders as of September 30, 1972.
i;.  Lict of Board Members and Alternates as of December 31,  1972.
5.  Organization Chart (September 30, 1972).
h,   Declaration of Policy and Operating Procedures.
7.  Analysis of Disbursements from Inception through June 30, 1972.
S.   Portfolio Review as of September 30, 1972.
9.  Equity Investments held - Balances as of June 30, 1972.
10.  Audited Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1966-71 and June 30,
1972 (unaudited).
11.  Audited Statements of Income and Expenses for the Years ending
December 31, 1966-71 and for the Six Months ending June 30, 1972
(unaudited).
12.   Projected Industrial Operations 1972-76, compared with 1971.
13.   Projected Gap in Foreign Exchange Resources over the Period 1972-76.
1b.   Projected Balance Sheets 1972-76, compared with 1971.
15.   Projected Statements of Income and Expenses  1972-76, compared with 197-!.
16.   Projected Sources and applications of Funds 1972-76.
17.  Past and Projected Financial Ratios.
COMISION DE VALORES--CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
I8.   List of Board Members and Alternates as of September 30, 1972.
19.   Organization Chart September 1972.
20.   Declaration of Policies and Procedures.
,'1. Analysis of Loan Approvals from Inception through June 30, 1972.



22.  List and Characteristics of -oreign Credit Lines - Disbursements
as of June 30, 1972.
23.   Lcans and Other Credit Operations--Balances as of June 30, 1972.
Equity Investments held - Balances as of June 30, 1972.
?<   Audited Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1967-72*.
Audited Statements of Income and Expenses for Calendar Years 1964-66,
Six Months ended June 30, 1967, and Fiscal Years ended June 30, 1968-72.
27.  Projected Industrial Operations 1973-77*,compared with 1972*.
--.   Projected Gap in Foreign Exchange Resources over the Period 1972-76.
29.   Projected Balance Sheets 1973-77*,compared with 1972*-
30.  Projected Statements of Income and Expenses 1973-77*, compared with 1972*.
3-   Projected Sources and Applications of Funds 1973-77*.
32,  Past and Projected Financial Ratios.
PROPOSED LOAN
33.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan.
* iscal year ending June 30.



- i .
ECUADOR: APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
BASIC DATA ON FINANCIERAS
CV-CFN              COFIEC
Established                                           1964                 1966
As of September 30, 1972
No. of shareholders                                    1/                   203
Share capital (in S/ million)                         5-0.o                66e9
Shareholdings as % of total share capital:
1.  Ecuadorian Private sector                        -44.5
2. Ecuadorian Public sector                         100.0                 7.6
3.  Foreign controlled                               -                    2.8
4.  Foreign                                                              36.9
5.  IFC                                                                   8.2
As of June 30, 1972
Assets (in S/ million)
Loans                                                 973.2               202.3
i.quity investments                                   101.5                18.0
Other assets                                           76.8                75.0
Liabilities (in S/ million)
IBRD                                                   26.2                16.3.W
Foreign banks                                         398.0               108.0
Bonds                                                  75.7                 3.7
Other                                                  62.3                75.6
Equity
Total debt/equity                                     1.1:1               6e1:1
Equity portfolio as % of net worth                      18.3               20.3
Reserves and retained earnings as % of total
portfolio                                             7.7                11.1
Book value as % of par value                           111.0              105.9
Last Fiscal YearY/
Operating income (in S/ million)                       33.3                21.3
Net income (in S/ million)                              24.6Ž/
Net income as % of average
Share capital                                         6.3                16.1
Equity                                                 5.8               13.9
Total assets                                          2.7
General expenses as % of average total assets            2.5                1.7-
Dividend as % of share capital                           -                  -
Dividend pay-out                                         -
1/ Government owned.
2/ Year ended December 31, 1972 for COFIEC, June 30, 1972 for CV-CFN.
,/ After extraordinary income (expenses).
' Livestock loan.



- il -
SUIMARY AND CQCILUSIONS
i,        This report appraises a second project to assist Comision de Valores-
Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CV-CFN) and Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo, S. A.,
Corporaci6n Financiera (COFIEC) in providing long-term financing for the foreign
exchange costs of industrial projects.  A loan of US$20 million is proposed.
By making this loan the Bank would ernable the financieras to reduce their clientai
reliance on short-term credits, to obtain term financing on reasonable conditions,
and to strengthen their capacities to appraise and supervise projects.
The contribution of Ecuador's mnanufacturing sector to output, export
diversification, employment and income distribution has so far been limited.
The main constraints to a more vigorous expansion of manufacturing have been the
reduced size of the domestic market; insufficient hiuwai, physical and financial
supporting infrastructure; and the absence of coordinated governiment action
stimulating and regulating manufacturing expansion. However, under the impetus
of the rapid development of the petroleum sector, the investment climate is
becoming increasingly favorable and the demand for industrial finance is acce-
lerating.  Moreover, together with Bolivia, Ecuador enjoys preferential treat-
ment under the Andean Pact regime.  Ecuador offers liberal terrms for foreign
investment and (together with Bolivia) is allowred a Longer period for progressive
elimination of tariff barriers.  This offers the countrJ opport-nities for tkie
creation of new export-oriented ventures. To exploit these opportunities the
Government plans a more aggressive role in directing industrial growth toward
priority fields.
iii.      The first Bank loan amounting to US$8 million (US$4 million to each
cc7panyE ~was approved by the Board in December 1970. Because of delays in the
_hlfillment of the conditions of effectiveness, the loan becai-e effective only in
October 1971.  The increasing demand for long-teri induastrial credit resulted in
une proceeds of the loan being fully committeed in about one year (72 percent
had been disbursed as at April 30, 1973), much sooner than forecast.  The
companies were appraised for a second loan during two field visits in November
19712 and February 1973.
1v.       CV-CFN and CCFIEC were established in 1964 and 1966, respectively.
Tney have since been the major institutional sources of long-term financing to
i:ndustry in Fcuador, and in 1971 they financed over one-fourtth of fixed industrial
investments.  Both financieras have experienced and satisfactory managements.
Previously this was not the case for COFIEC Is &ayaquil office, which also suffered
from iradequate staff and sub-standard evaluation and supervision of projects.
However, efforts by COFIEC's management to improve performance in the Guayaquil
office are meeting with success. Appraisals received from both financieras under
'1,h,e first Bank loan have been generally of high quality.  However, they do not
i,nclude an assessment of the economic merits of projects and the financieras
would include such an assessment for projectsabove the "free limit" (see paragraph
vi), submitted under a second Bank loan.  The quality of their supervision
-.ork also will be improved.  CV-CFN 's and COFIEC Is financial condition is
satisfactory.  Arrears are not a significant problem and anticipated portfolio losses
are either covered by provisions (CV-CF7) or soon Wil be (COFIEC).  Their liquidity is
ep1e <nd profitability satisfactory. Demand from CV-CFN and CCFIEC's clients reflect



- iil -
the favorable prospects for industry, and indicate that the proposed loan would
probably be coimitted by the end of 197X.
v.       A Bank loan of US$20 million to the Government, to be re-lent to
CV-CFN and COFIiC, is recowmmnded. US$8 million would be allocated to each
financiera.   The remaining US$4 million would be used by the financieras on a
first-come-first-served basis; however, in the case of COFIXC, it would only
be eligible to utilize these funds once it had increased its capital sufficiently
to allow for disbursement of Bank funds while still remaining within its 7:1
debt: equity ratio.  Final borrowers would receive the proceeds of the loan in
local currency at an effective cost of 13% p.a., composed of an interest rate
of 12% p.a. plus a supervision fee of 1% p.a.
vi.      Because of the quality of appraisals received by the Bank under the
first loan, the limit for projects not requiring the Bank's prior approval (the
"free limit") would be raised from US$100,000 to US$200,000 for both financieras.
The aggregate free limit for each financiera would be US$h million (US$1.3
million under the first loan).






ECUADOR: APPRAISAL OF THE SECCND FINANCIERA PROJ1hCT
I. INTRODUCTION
The First Bank Loan (721-EC)
1.01     Only three institutions, Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A., Compaflla
Financiera (COFIEC), Comision de Valores-Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(CV-CFN), and Banco Nacional de Fomento, provide long-term financing for
industry in Ecuador, and the latter institution on]ly to small industry.
COFIEC, which was e'tablished by private shareholders from Quito and Guayaquil
and with assistance from the Government and IFC, has operated more in Guayaquil
and with smaller clients than has CV-CFN, which is much larger and is wholly
Government-owned.  Therefore, both companies have, with few exceptions, develoTh+
separate clientele.  Consequently, by lending to both institutions the Bank
expects to realize a wider distribution of benefits than it would by limit:;.ng
its financing to one of the two companies.
1.02     A first Bank loan (721-EC) of US$8,000,000 to the Government of Ecu- -i
was approved on December 17, 1970.  It was re-lent (US$4,000,000 each) to COYF,
and CV-CFN.  Effectiveness of the loan was delayed until October 15, 1971, be-at  -
(i) the Government did not process the loan documents in the time estimated; arj(n
tii) COFIEC had to upgrade its performance to meet conditions of effectiveness.
Since that time, progress has been rapid and, as of April 30, 1973, the
proceeds of the Loan had been fully committeed for 22 industrial projects and
72% had been disbursed.  Virtually all of this financing (85%) was for manufa<
turing projects and the balance for agro-industry. Within manufacturing, the
textile sector has received the largest amount of funds.
Objectives of the Proposed Loan
1.03     The Government has requested a second loan of US$20 million from the
Bank to COFIEC and CV-CFN for the financing of industrial projects. US$8
million would be allocated to each financiera and US$4 million would remain
unallocated, and would be available on a first-come-first-served basis.  By
making this loan, the Bank would continue to accomplish the following objectives3
(a) provide long-term financing to industry on reasonable terms
to cover foreign exchange costs of investment projects
involving the expansion of existing firms or the establishment
of new enterprises;
(b) promote a change in the structure of industrial finance by sub-
stituting long-term funds for short-term credits;
(c) strengthen COFIEC's and CV-CFN's capabilities to appraise and
supervise industrial projects, which, under the proposed loan,
would emphasize developing their capacities to assess the
economic merit of industrial projects they finance.
1.04     This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed
of Messrs. Neil Hughes and Andre Cracco of the DFC Projects Division, LAC
Pegional Office, which visited Ecuador during November 1972 and February 197j.



-2-
II. THE ECCN04IC SETTING
General Outlook
2.01     The Bank's economic report for Ecuador of June 1, 1973 (No.14a - Ec)
indicates that, with the. assistance of substantial petroleum:revenues, an 8%
annual GDP growth rate / (excluding the petroleum sector) is possible through
173-77. This would require an increase in private investment of about 10% p.a.
(& mpared to 7.2% for 1968-70), complemented by a public investment program
especially for electrification, since one of the chief obstacles to establishing
industrial plants is lack of power. Next to agriculture, manufacturing provides
the highest contribution to GDP, which reached 17% during the past decade. Ecuador's
small market poses a constraint to further growth. The development of the Andean
Common Market, which is still at an initial stage, could provide 3cuadorians with
a market much larger- than their own, particularly since Ecuador (along with Boli-
via) enjoys preferential treatment for a number of manufactured goods.. Whether
or not Ecuador will be able to take advantage of this opportunity remains to be
seen. Nevertheless, the development of the petroleum industry is providing an
impetus to further manufacturing investment, and demand for industrial finance
is increasing.
Effect of Government Policies on the Industrial Sector
2.02     Industrial policy.  Industry in Ecuador has developed under a policy
of high protection for traditional manufacturers (amounting to 170-190% nominal
rrotection for clothing, food and beverage producers).  Until recently, protection-
ism was further strengthened by prior import deposits (see paragraph 2.06), which
ranged between 100-130% of the value of imports.  In order to ensure that Bank
f'unds are used to finance projects which are economically sound, the financieras
would have to justify all projects above the free limit (see pxragraph_5.07) submitted
under the proposed loan,on the basis of their economic merit.
2.03     In 1957, the Government undertook to establish explicit policy directives
for industry through the enactment of an Industrial Development Law. Since that
tirne the law has been revised, most recently in 1967. It provides incentives for
developing new types of industry, as well as industries which export, substitute
for imports, are located outside the major urban areas, or produce intermediate
or capital goods (see Annex 1). The law's emphasis is correctly placed on solving
industryts most important structural problems: the relatively small product base
of the sector, its poor export performance, its limited success in substituting
for imports, and its concentration in the Quito and Ouayaquil metropolitan areas.
Although 644 firms have qualified under the law, a judgement as to its effective-
ness is difficult to make, since no follow-up has been made and no data gathered
on the firms which benefited from it.
2.OL    The law is administered by an Inter- ministerial Committee for Industrial
Development, which is chaired by the Minister of Industry, who is responsible for
imni.lementing industrial policy. The National Planning Board (whose chairman
t   in 1960-68, 6% in 1969, 8% in 1970 and 7% in 1971.



-3-
sits on the committee) must formulate the sectoral plans which would serve as
the basis for implementing industrial policies. In January of this year, the
Board issued a new Development Plan for 1973-77. The plan's recommendations
regarding industry support the basic tenets of the law while stressing the im-
portance of accomplishing social goals. Two points are emphasized: (a) the
Government should increase its participation in industrial development;(b) the
principal agents in this effort ahould be Banco Nacional de Fomento (for artisans
and small industry) and CV-CFN (for large industry). ThI.Plan also em2hasizes
an important new initiative of the new Government, which= has established
mandatory state participation in "basic industry" (including steel, cement, basic
chemicals, petrochemicals, mining). Except for "basic industry", investment
decisions in other sectors would be made largely on an individual project basis
(i.e. by entrepreneurs and financial institutions through the appraisal process).
Consequently, COFIEC and CV-CFN can have considerable impact on the implementation
of policy goals and it is to this end that the Bank is stressing economic eva-
luation of projects (see paragraphs 3.05 and 4.06).
2.05     A disincentive to industrial investment is the corporate income tax
(30%), which is levied only on undistributed earnings (recipients of dividends
are subject to a lower tax of 20%), thus discouraging the retention of earnings.
Shareholders have in some cases been getting around this requirement by "lending"'
distributed earnings back to the company.
2.06     Monetary policy.  In recent years the Government has adopted measures
to curb public deficit spending and private credit. In 1970-71 Government spend-
Ing and borrowing from Banco Central (BC) was reduced, and it received an IMF
standby loan of US$18 million and a budget support loan from US commercial banks
of US$h0 million. Also in 1970, the ceiling on interest and discount rates was
raised to 12%, the Central Bank's power to rediscount credits was curtailed, and
a 3% per quarter ceiling was placed on the growth of commercial bankst portfolios.
In November 1971 a 50% marginal requirement was established over any deposits received
in excess of the levels (30% for demand deposits and 20% for time deposits) as of
that date. At the beginning of 1972 a minimum term was established for prior
deposits on imports, regardless of the arrival date of the goods imported.  As a
result, such deposits doubled in the first semester of 1972. However, later in the
year the minimum term requirement was removed, and in early 1973 prior deposits were
suapended. Also in 1972, the Monetary Board approved a plan enabling the Central Bank ti
carry out open-market operations by the sale and repurchase of a new security
entitled "monetary stabilization bonds".  The first offering was made at the end
of 1972, and in January of this year these bonds accounted for one-third of
transactions on the securities market. Overall, these policies have been
successful in curtailing commercial bank credit, but have caused industrial
firms to look more than before to the DFCs (which are not affected by these
requirements) for their working capital needs.
lJ Source: Philosophy and Plan of Action of the Revolutionary and Nationalist
Government of Ecuador, April 1971.



Financing of Industry.
2.07     The banking system. Conœmercial banks -- 15 Ecuadorian, 4 foreign;
5f) branches, 70 agencies -- which hold about two-thirds of pri,vate savings, are
Jhe main institutional source of industrial finance.  However, t       opion
of credi.t they have granted to the industrial sector is small (14, of total
portfolio in 1971), and is almost entirely composed of short-term loans. In
addition, their relative importance in channelling funds for industry has
decreased somewhat with the inception of CV-CFN and C&lBX, which. along with
Banco Nacional de Fomento, are virtuaLlrly the country 's only internal sources
of industrial long-term financing. Although the activites of these institutions
have markedly improved the availability of long-term financing to industry,
indu-V'rial needs for long-term resources are still not being fully met.  Out of
the S/2, 753 million of direct credf chanmelled by the banking aystem to manufac-
turing in 1971, only S/298 millian;  consisted of long-term loan.s  10.8% of the
total.).  This was sufficient to cover about one-third (C,V-CO. 23.1%, COKFESC 7.2%;
Banco Nacional de Fomento 4.5%) of fid  dustrial  nmestmeiit requirementsn
1971, which amounted to S/851 million,. A cross-section review of COFEC's
clients confirmed that many industrial enterprises mumst still rely on short-term
renewable loans to meet their financial needs for fixed capit.-l 1ivestments.
2.       The capital market. Ecuador Is capital market is prJisiarily a debentu;re
market and trading is small. This situation has resulted froom a variety of
factors. The most important have been the follow-ing: competition from Governmnent
bonds which channel savings to fill budget deficits and control liquidity; tax
legislation favoring Government and mortgage bond porchases; the existence of an
industrial sector co posed of a large number of family-owned enterprises not yet
opened to tIhe idea of diversified ownership; and the uncertainty of regular divi-
dennds among industrial concerns. During 1971 the average monthly value of transac-
t,ions on the Quito and Guayaquil exchanges reached a modest 3416.0 million and
S/11.0 million respectively. Goverment bonds accounted for 60% of total transac-
tions, mortgage bonds for 30%, shares of a few established enterprises for 5%,
and other securities for the remainder. The ilnortan-e of Government bonds in
the volume of trading reflects their high relative yJ!el .,sorae are sold at discount
and have an effective tax-free yield of up to l6. 7),, and the average investorts
preference for securities providing a fixed and guaranteed return on his invest-
ments. The above constraints have kept almost all imiportant industrial concerns
from relying on the capital market to meet their ±'inancial needs.  Three firms
have had successful issues; a textile firm (Ecuador's largest company) issued
S/70 million in shares in 1971, and two pharmaceutical companies issued 12% bonds
in 1972 (S/30 million and 3/5' million).
2.09     The extra-bank market. Over the past few months the extra-bank market has
becoine an important source of industrial finanme. As it operates outside govern-
mental regulation, data on the volume of its industrial credit operations are not
J,. CV-CFN (S/197 million); COFIEC (S/62 million); Banco Nacional de Fomento
(SI39 million) .
Source: National Planning Board and CV-CF  s statistical department.



available. However, according to the Superintendent of Companies, industrial
transactions have recently reached the order of magnitude of those handled by
the banking system. Interest rates charged by the extra-bank market appear to
range from about 17% to 22% per year, slightly above the average cost of
commercial bank loans (see paragraph 2.12). Small and medium industrial enter-
prises, which find it difficult to obtain credit from private banks, are the prime
users of these funds.
2.10     Suppliers' credits. Between 1969-71, suppliers' credits accounted for
about one-half of all credits granted to industry. Although no breakdown could
be obtained according to the nature of the items financed, suppliers' credits
appear to be playing a significant role in fixed capital financing in the manufac-
turing sector.
2.11     Local currency financing. In the absence of medium and long-term local
currency resources, industrial firms have traditionally had to rely on the roll-
over of short-term credits to meet their needs. However, as a result of monetary
measures adopted by the Government to control inflation, even this resource
has become less available, and their liquidity has been lessened. Firms receiving
Bank financing are usually the financieras' soundest clients, who have easier
access to credit and thus have not been affected; however, it appears that some
of the financieras' other customers are not able to obtain the workiznwcapital
they need on a continuing basis. During negotiations, it was agreed that a Bank
mission, planned for later this year, should look into this problem and make
specific recommendations as to the most appropriate means of channelling local
currency funds to industry on reasonable terms.
Interest Rates
2.12     In Ecuador, legal interest and rediscount rates (see Annex 2) are
established by the Monetary Board. Since January 1970 the legal interest rate
ceiling has remained at 12% for all loans, regardless of term, and at 14% for
overdue loans. Since, for short-term operations, it is a common practice among
private bankers to request from their clients payment in advance of the full
interest charge,.the effective interest rate they obtain on short-term loans
can amount to 13.6%. Since commercial banks presently pay interest on savings
and time deposits up to 6% and 9X respectively, the effective gross spread they
enjoy on their lending operations can range from 4.6 - 7.6% p.a. As various
taxes based on the size and the length of the loan are added on, the effective
cost of short-term borrowings to industrial enterprises may be as high as 22%
and usually averages around 17-18% p.a. Although most banks have been lending
at the ceiling rate, the growth of extra-banking operations and, to a certain
extent, competition from foreign banks have induced some corqmercial banks to
occasionally lower their nominal interest rates on short-term credits to 11%
in cases involving important clients.  Except for loans in arrears, financieras
cannot charge their clients an interest rate higher than 12%.   As the latter is
not increased by additional taxes, the effective cost of long-term loans is
actually cheaper than short-term credits. (See further paragraph 5.03.)



- 6 -
III.  COFIEC:  CONDITION AND PERFCRMANCE
Organization
3.01      Ownership, Board of Directors. CCFIEC's ownership is widely held (see
Annex 3).  Its Board of Directors, which has 15 members (see Annex 4), includes
COFIEC's president, 9 representatives of local shareholders (52.1% of total shares),
4 representatives of foreign shareholders (39.7%), and 1 IFC representative (8.2%).
All long-term financing (i.e. in excess of 3 years), as well as short-term loans
in ecess of S/4 million must be approved by the Board.  Six Ecuadorian directors,
as well as COFIEC's president and executive vice president, make up COFIEC's Executive
Committee (EXCOM). It approves operations prior to their submission to the Board.
The EXCOM has not functioned as well as it should have done, due to the failure of
some of its members to participate effectively.  COFIEC has recently reorganized
the EXCOM in order to make it a more effective body. Also, the Board has not received
sufficient advance information on projects submitted for its approval. COFIEC has
recognized this shortcoming and has agreed to make such information available to
the Board on a timely basis0
3.02      Management and staff. COFI3C has a total staff of 52 (for organization
chart see Annex 5), of which 30 (including 12 professionals) are attached to the
head office in Quito and 22 (including 8 professionals) to its branch in Guayaquil
which is headed by the executive vice president. The head of each office presently
has the authority to grant loans not to exceed S/h million in amount and 3 years
in term. Since its inception, COFIEC s two offices have operated as two almost
separate institutions. This has occurred for two reasons: (a) the high lending
limits granted to each office gave them a great deal of financial independence;
(b) the granting of virtual management autonomy was also considered necessary
because of the long-standing divisions between "Quitefios" and "Guayaquileflos1t'/.
Until the credit squeeze of 1971 the system appeared to be working well. However,
the inability of clients at that time to repay not only produced a liquidity crisis
in COFIEC (see paragraph 3.19) but also showed that the Guayaquil office was
incapable of handling the situation due to faulty control over operations and lack
of adequate management and staff. CCFIEC has taken the required steps to upgrade
management and reorganize procedures in the Guayaquil office (see paragraph 3.08).
3.03      Appraisal. The Quito office's appraisals have continued to improve.
Although operations requiring local funds are not always analyzed as thoroughly as
those submitted for Bank financing, overall, the quality of their appraisals is
relatively high when compared to other Latin American DFCs.
3.04      The Guayaquil office has only recently, at the urging of the Bank, acquired
q;alified staff and the know-how to appraise projects requiring long-term financing
(see paragraph 3.08). This was attributable to (a) the lack of concern of the
previous management for adequate project evaluation, and (b) the concentration
on short-term operations, with particular emphasis on the guarantees received and
on management's knowledge of the client.
j Arising from the two cities striving for political and commercial dominance and
their being located in distinct regions whose geographic separation has fostered
two distinct busir    communities with different attitudes and modes of operation.



- 7 -
3.05      CCFIEC presently does not calculate the internal financial rate of return
on projects it finances. It will need to make such a calculation for projects
above the free limit (see paragraph 5.07) submitted under a second Bank loan. Further-
more, since evaluation of the economic impact of projects is also lacking, COFIEC will
be required to assess the economic merits of projects above the free limit. Agree-
ment on the approach to be used has been reached during negotiations. As a first
step to build up its economic appraisal capability, COFIEC is participating in seminars
- to which Bank staff will contribute - on economic evaluation of projects organized
by IDB for CV-CFN (see paragraph 4.06).
3.06      Supervision. COFIEC's follow-up activity needs further improvement both
as regards the number of clients visited and the substance of the work done. Because
of staff limitations, supervision visits have generally been confined to operations
in difficulty or to those in which overall financial exposure is large. &aphasis
has been on checking guarantees securing loans rather than on comparing projected
and actual performance. The Bank and COFIEC have agreed on steps to improve COFIEC's
supervision activities.
3.07      Disbursement and procurement. CCFIEC's disbursement procedures and
control of investment expenditures are adequate. As regards procurement, COFIEC has
not, as a rule, required competitive bidding for projects it finances. However,
it generally satisfies itself that theequipment and machinery to be bought meet
the technical requirements of the project and are competitive in price.
3.08      Improvement in organization. In order to obtain sufficient qualified
staff to carry out project appraisals for its Guayaquil office, and improve coordina-
tion and control between both offices at the level of project evaluation and project
approval, the Bank has recommended, and COFIEC has implemented, the following
organizational changes:
(a) hired for the Guayacpuil office an industrial engineer, and a
financial analyst; 1
(b) reduced the lending limits of each office to a fixed amount unrelated
to growth of capital (as was the case in the past). For operations
up to 3 years the amount is S/4 million. All operations over this
amount are subject to approval by the EXCOM and the Board. All
operations exceeding 3 years are subject to review by a Loan Committee
(see below), as well as approval by the EXCOM and the Board. This
limitation applies not only to individual operations but to aggregate
total exposure in a single client or group of clients with common
majority ownership;
(c) established a Loan Committee composed of senior staff members
responsible for project evaluation (one from each office) as well
as an independent advisor to lend further experience and act as
arbiter if necessary. The committee is required to make a specific
recommendation to COFIEC's president on every project reviewed,
based upon a majority decision of its members;
(d) has taken steps to provide the Board, sufficiently in advance, with
information on projects to be considered for approval, through
notification at least a week in advance of projects to be considered,
and availability of appraisal reports for review.
C COFIEC is also in the process of hiring an industrial economist and will keep
the Bank informed regarding its progress.



-8-
Resources
3.09     COFIEC's resources in the past have not been adequate for long-term
lending. Loans from AID (US$3 million in 1966) and EXIMBANK (US$ 1.5 million
in 1968 and US$3 million in 1970) were not sufficient to meet the foreign
exchange needs of its clients, and COFIEC sought additional funds. The difficulty
of obtaining a Government guarantee hindered its efforts; however, this was
avoided in the case of the Bank, whose loans have been made directly to the
Govermment and re-lent to COFIEC and CV-CFN. COFIEC has utilized US$2.4 million
from the second (173-EC) and third (222-EC) Bank livestock loans and the full
UsS$) million available under its first DFC loan. COFIEC's most important long-
t rm local currency resource has been its own equity (S/89 million).  Also, it has
,ecently been successful in issuing five-year bonds, of which one-tenth are
redeemable semi-annually at par through a lottery system.  COFIEC arranges the
amortization schedules of loans granted with these funds to match the bond
maturities. As of December 31, 1972, COFIEC had placed bonds amounting to S/16
million.
3.10     COFIEC's short-term borrowing was severely curtailed in 1970, since
rising rates in the international money markets raised the cost of foreign
credit lines in some cases above the maximum re-lending rate allowed to commercial
banks and DFCs in Ecuador (10% until January 1970, when it was raised to 12g).
Jir.ce 1970, COFIEC has been guaranteeing loans made by foreign banks to its
clients. In practice these loans are direct liabilities of CCFIECk (and are
considered as such in calculating the debt/equity ratio), since foreign banks
debit COFIEC's account with them at the maturity date of the guaranteed loan.
COFIEC presently has 16 c..edit lines totalling US$15 million from foreign banks.
As of June 30, 1972, COFIEC s outstanding direct borrowings from foreign banks
amounted to S/36 million and guarantees outstanding to .9/255 million. COFIEC
has also received S/33 million in loans from local banks. As C(FIEC's utilization
of Bank resources grows, the importarce of its short-term operations will diminish.
Nevertheless, its guarantee operations are a useful source of working capital
financing for its clients and will continue to be an important part of COFIE Is
financing.
3.11     Overall, CCFIEC has been quite successful in mobilizing the resources
it requires. It has effectively used the guarantee mechanism to obtain working
capital for its clients, it is one of a very few institutions which have issued
their own bonds, and it has already had an important impact in obtaining foreign
exchange financing for industrial and livestock projects.
Financial Results
3. <    Independent audit.  COFIEC is audited annually by Price Waterhouse & Co.
T.e scope of such audits requires some improvement, and COFIEC agreed to require its
aud :.ors to (a) make an assessment of the adequacy of provisions to cover expected
losses on loans and equi.ty investments, and (b) provide a statement indicating COFIEC's
exposure to foreign excrange risk, both direct and contingent.
T/ This ap-sraisal report is based on audited financial statements as of December 31,
1971 (the c'losing date of COFIEC's fiscal year) and unaudited figures for June 30,
17 . Preliminary (unaudited) figures as of December 31, 1972 indicate performance
and res-ultssomewhat better than reflected in the 1972 projections discussed in the
':ex- and incorporated in the annexes.



-9-
3.13      Quality of portfolio. Loan principal in arrears for more than 3 months
amounted to S/25 million (5% of total portfolio) on June 30, 1972 . Total prin-
cipal outstanding of clients with obligations in arrears over 3 months amounted
to S/77 million. Two-thirds of arrears are a cause for concern since they are
obligations due from five clients for whom losses are expected or repayment is
doubtful (see paragraph 3.14). The balance involve relatively small amounts
overdue 3-6 months from about 60 co',mpanies. It has been COFIEC's practice not
to classify a client in arrears if at least 25% of the amount due is repaid, and
to reschedule the balance to be paid off in later instalments. In some cases
COFIEC has occasionally rescheduled or refinanced debt without a partial repayment
when a strong or well-known client is involved.
3.1      Since the scope of COFIEC's audit was not adequate to assess satisfactorily
the quality of COFIEC's portfolio, an in-depth portfolio evaluation was one of the
principal tasks of the appraisal of COFIEC. The methodology and findings of this
review, which covered 69 companies and two-thirds of total portfolio, are given
in Annex 8. Estimated losses are S/ 23 million, including expected losses of S/17
million as well as an additional S/6 million to cover 50X of doubtful loans.
Almost all estimated losses (92%) are for operations carried out by the Guayaquil
office. For the past year, COFIEC has been allocating S/300,000 per month to
provisions which, as of December 31, 1972, amounted to S/18 million.  COFIEC
will continue the monthly allocations until the estimated amount of loss is
reached. Up to now, COFIEC has written off only one loan for S/981,000, since
under Ecuadorian law a loan must be in arrears for three years, and must not be
recoverable, prior to being written off.
3.15      Foreign exchange risk. Under the first Bank loan, the Government of
Ecuador agreed to carry the foreign exchange risk on all of CV-CFN's operations,
since it was a Government-owned company. For. COFIEC, which is privately owned,
the Government was willing only to assume the foreign exchange risk on the
Bank loan; COFIEC was required to forego any exchange risk on new operations, and
to create a provision sufficient to cover its existing foreign exchange risk.
The creation of a provision was seen as a necessary means of covering not only
direct risk, but also relending in sucres, since Ecuadorian law does not allow
the exchange risk to be passed to the ultimate borrower (Ecuadorian debtors can
repay any foreign exchange loan in sucres at the parity in effect when the loan
was granted). To cover its risk, CCFIEC has allocated S/1.5 million (equal
to about 2% of foreign exchange liabilities of S/78 million equivalent). This
amount seems reasonable, particularly since all of CCFIEC's clients have repaid
in sucres at the parity in effect at the maturity of the loan.
3.16      For the proposed loan, COFIEC has agreed to (a) maintain the above
allocation in a reserve to cover foreign exchange risk rather than a provision
(as is required under Loan 721-EC); (b) review annually the adequacy of its reserve
against foreign exchange risk. The rationale for the former point is that alloca-
tions to a provision (which involve reducing total assets and equity) can be
justified only if a loss has been sustained or is expected. This is not the case
for COFIEC's foreign exchange risk.



- 10 -
'.17    Profitability.  COFIEC's most important sources of income continue to
be interest on loans (59% of total income for 1970-72) and commissions on
guarantees (36%).  Although return on total equity portfolio has been increasing,
income from equity investments has amounted to only 5% of total income. Financial
costs have increased sharply in recent years due to rising interest rates in
international markets (see paragraph 3.10) and, to a Lesser degree, to COFIEC s
shift to longer-term operations, which are not as profitable as its short-term
activities.  In addition, administrative expenses continue to be fairly high,
amounting to about 2.2% of average total assets for the past three years. Never-
theless, since COFIEC has to maintain two offices, each with a separate staff,
this level of expenditure is reasonable.
3.16    Cperating income for the first semester of 1972 amounted to S/6.1 million.
Preliminary annual data for 1972 reflect an operating profit of S/21.3 million
(as compared with S/17.7 million for 1971), and net profit after t.axes and provisions
of S/ll.l million (S,4.3 million for 1971 after deduction for provisions of S/10.2
rmillion). For 1972, net profit represents a return on average capital of 15%
as compared to 11% in 1970 (1971 was not a typical - year, since the deduction for
provisions for doubtful accounts reduced the return to 2%).
3.19    Financial condition.  CCFIEC's liquidity has been a matter of concern ever
since the company was unable to meet its obligations to foreign banks during 1971.
At that time, its problems resulted from a monetary crisis which had a serious
impact on a financial and business community accustomed to liberal and loosely
administered practices, and to reliance on rollover of short-term debts. New
controls introduced by the Government (see paragraph 2.06) created a working
capital crisis for many of COFIEC's clients. Whlen they failed to pay, COFIEC was
unable to meet its obligations to US banks and overdrew its current accounts with
these banks to meet its commitments. However, by the end of 1971 COFIEC had repaid
all its overdrafts and, as of June 30, 1972, its currenfi assets were 1.6 times
current liabilities, which is sufficient for normal operational requirements.
3.20    Under ILan 721-EC, COFIEC's total debt (including guarantees) was limited
to 6 times its equity and its long-term debt to X tirmes equity. COFIEC has had
difficulty in controlling its debt to meet the former requirement and on several
occasions has slightly exceeded the 6:1 limit. Since COFIEC has forecast a rapid
growth in its long-term financing operations with Bank funds, it has had to consider
how it can grow and still maintain its debt within acceptable limits.  Three courses
of action were considered: (a) an increase in the present total debt/equity limita.-
tion of 6:1; (b) an increase in share capital; (C) a reduction in short-term
operations.
3.21    Considering the problems which COFIEC has yet to solve, it would be
imprudent to increase its leverage at this time.  However, under Loan 721-EC
COFIEG was allowed to consider as quasi-equity provisions for doubtful accounts in
excess of 2% of its portfolio. Under the proposed loan, COFIEC would no longer be
allowed to use any part of its provisions to expand its equity base in the calculation
of its debt:equity ratios;hower in order to avoid decreasing its borrowing capacity,
t-e total debt: equity ratio has been increased from 6:1 to 7:1. At the same time,
20-FIFEC is unwilling to reduce its short-term operations by much, since they
are its most profitable activity. COFIEC has therefore agreed to increase its



- 11 -
share capital in amounts sufficient to enable it to commit Bank funds and remain
within the agreed upon debt/equity limit.
3.22      COFIEC has abeen able to obtain from existing shareholders firm
commitments for purchases of SC10 million in new shares, which would raise its
share capital to S/92 million. As a result, COFIEC has fallen short by S/5 million
of the S/97 million it would need to be able to disburse US$8 million of the
proposed Bank loan pursuant to the newly agreed 7:1 debt: equity ratio. Bearing
in mind CCFIEC's efforts to increase share capital, which since June 30, 1972
have resulted in an increase of S/25 million (S/5 million in new shares in
November 1972, a stock dividend of S/10 million in March 1973, and the above
mentioned S/lO million in May 1973), and the fact that COFIEC will need to go to
the capital market for the missing portion, it would be unduly harsh to hold up
the loan to COFIEC until it completes the required subscription. But COFIEC has
been informed that the Bank would carefully watch the effect of committing the
Loan on COFIEC's future debt/equity ratio, and whenever it would appear that
disbursements under existing commitments would cause COFIEC to exceed the 7-1
limit, the Bank would stop commitments until such time as the additional S/5
million equity had been raised. In addition, if COFIEC is to obtain access to
the unallocated portion of the loan (see paragraph 5.02), its equity would need
a further increase of up to S/13 million.
3.23      Policies and procedures. COFIEC's operations have been conducted generalil
within the framework of its Declaration of Policy and Operating Procedures, shown
in Annex 6. However, in five instances COFIEC felt that the importance of the
projects warranted exceeding the exposure considered normal in any single enterorise
(20% of net worth). Since COFIEC expects that in the future it will be involve;l
in mixed enterprises, it agreed to amend Article 9 of its Declaration of Policv
and Cperating Procedures, which limits its operations to the private sector.  Such
an amendment will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan to COFIEC.
Operations
3.24      Industrial operations. Since its inception in 1966, COFIEC's growth ias
been rapid except for 1970, when its lending operations levelled off as a result
of the decline in business activity following the devaluation of the sucre. Betweer;
1967 and 1971, disbursements and guarantees granted increased from S/l1L1 nillion
to S/AL)4 million (this amount is inflated due to rollover of the same funds withir
a single year), corresponding to an annual growth rate of 3a4%. Although the buIk
of COFIEC's operations have been short-term, their relative importance began to
decrease during 1972 through the utilization of Bank funds.  As of June 30, 197k, 
short-term loans and discount operations represented 51% of the loan portfolio
as coipared to 65% as of December 31, 1970.
3.25      COFIEC has diversified its lending operations reasonably well (see Annex
7).  Since COFIEC coumenced operating it had, as of mid-1972, granted loans totalling
S/l.9 billion.  The manufacturing sector has received 59% of the total, followed
by construction (14%), agriculture and livestock (10%) and transportation (9%).
The average anount lent has been S/800,000 and 74% of the loans have been short-
term; 38% have been used for the acquisition of fixed assets as against 62% for
working capital. To a large degree, lending has been limited to the Ouayaquil
(54%) and Quito (38%) regions.  However, in 1972 there was a shift, with Quito
accounting for a higher level of disbursements than Guayaquil for the first time
since COFIEC's inception.



- 12 -
3.26      Equity investments have not yet played a significant role in COFIEC 's
operations. As of June 30, 1972, equity portfolio consisted of shares of 1l
enterprises, the acquisition value of which totalled S/i5 million, representing
only 6% of total loan and equity portfolio and 20% of net worth (see Annex 9).
Dividend income and capital gains on equity invest iet have been nominal (see
paragraph 3.17). Although COFIEC's policy statement gives particular emphasis
to equity financing, the thinness of Ecuador's stock warket and the fact that
COFIEC 't equity portfolio includes a significant number of enterprises which
h- -y.ve yet to establish a rscord of profitability justify COFIEC's caution for
,ne present.
Prospec ts
3.27      Forecast of operations. l;cuador's increasingly favorable prospects
for industrial development should provide CCFIEC with new business opportunities.
Through 1976, COFIEC has projected loan and equity commitments totalling S/1,509
million: S/330 million for short-term loans; S/4,159 million for medium- and
long-term loans; S/20 million for equity investments. This would require an
average commitment growth rate of 28% p.a. (see Annex 12). Guarantees, which
finance imports of raw materials, should continue to be COFIEC 's most important
operation.  However, although they will total S/2,065 million over 1972-76, they
will decline over the five-year period relative to long-term lending.
3.28      On the basis of the Bank's two-year lending horizon, COFIEC's loan
and equity commitments are expected to total S/528 million. of that amount,
S/330 million equivalent ,uld be to finance imports.  Such demand for foreign
exchange funds is borne out by COFIECts pipeline of projects which, as of
December 1, 1972, already included requests from 30 different firms for financing
US$7 million imports. COFIEC's estimate that 70% (US$5 million) of this pipeline
-would be committed in 1973 seems reasonable. In addition, new projects should
increase the commitment need to about US$7 million for the year. Regarding local
currency operations, COFIXC has not established its forecast on the basis of
existing client demand. Rather, it has relied on historical commitment growth
and Ecuadorts favorable industrial investment climate in estimating domestic currenc.x 
commitments of S/148 million over the next two years.
3.29      In the light of COFIEC's growth over the last few years, present demand,
and the prospects for Ecuador's sustained industrial development, the above operational
targets should be attainable provided resources are available and COFIEC's appraisal
capacity- is strengthened.
.30     Resource requirements. To meet its forecast loan and equity commitments
through 1976, COFIEC had, as of December 31, 1971, about S/125 million of unccmmitted
funds, S/25 million of own capital, and S/00 million of external borrowings. Taking
into account that COFIEC's projected operations will require local and foreign
cdLrmncy resources of S/411 million and S/1,098 million equivalent, respectively,
its financing gap for the remainder of the five-year forecast amounts to SAi,384
million, of which S/998 million equivalent will be in foreign exchange and S/386
million in local currency.  Since its efforts to tap new external sources of
finance may not be successful for some time, COFIEC expects to meet its
foreign exchange needs by taking recourse to its traditional creditors,
name3; vhe World Bank for about S/700 million, EXIMBANK for S/98 million,



- 13 -
foreign commercial banks for S/88 million, and rollover of its AID loan for S/112
million. As for the coverage of its forecast local ¢urrency needs, COFIEC intends
to rely on a share capital increase for S/100 million, bond issues for S/118
million, and on internal cash generation and loan repayments for the remainder.
3.31      Over the two-year period 1973-74, COFIEC's forecast availability of
resources indicates that it will adequately cover its local currency needs but
will probably face a foreign exchange gap of about US$11 million (see Annex 13).
Assuming that some slippage could occur due to CCFIEC's need to train staff and
improve its appraisal capacity in Ouayaquil, a loan of about US$8 million for 1973->.
seems justified.  If COFIT  is not able to meet the conditions in 5.02 (b) it would
be unable to utilize Bank funds from the unallocated portion of the proposed loan.
3.32      Financial projections. Assumuing that share capital is increased by about
S/100 million and extes1 borrowings obtained, COFIEC 's forecast operations -will
result in a growth in total assets from S/389 million in 1972 to S/1,080 miillion
in 1976, at an average rate of 38% p.a. (see Annex 14). Correspondingly, total
loans outstanding would increase from S/269 million to S/926 million during the
period (37% p.a.). Owing to a steady increase in term lending, the relative
importance of short-tem loans will diminish. As a percentage of loan and equity
portfolio they should aimomt to 16% in 1976 as compared to 41% in 1972. Guarantee
operations will also decline from 51% of total portfolio in 1972 to 21% in 1976.
Throughout the five-year period, COFIEC's total debt/equity relationship would remain
below the 7:1 limit defined in the Bank's Project Agreement.
3.33      Due to higher financial expenses which, as a percentage of average total
assets, will grow markedly from 2.8% in 1972 to 5.1% in 1976, COFI3C's projected
profitability will be wderate as compared to the growth of its operations (see
Annex 15). Therefore, return on average paid-in share capital should amount to 12.9%
in 1976 as compared to 15% in 1972 (see Annex 14).  Through 1976, COFIEC's debt-
service coverage will remain adequate.
IV. CV-CFN: CCNDITICN AND PERFORMANOE
Organization
h.01      Ownershi.p, Board of Directors. CV-CFN was first established as Fondo de
Regulacion de Valores in 1948, then as Comision de Valores in 1953. It became
a DFC in 1964. It is wholly owned by the Government of Ecuador, which holds 7
out of 9 seats on its Board of Directors (see Annex 18). Nevertheless, CV-CFN
is practically unique among Government institutions in Ecuador, in that it has
operated relatively independently of political control.!! The private sector,
1/ Although the Government has changed many times since 1957, CV-CFN has had the
same general manager since that time. In addition, a cross-section review of
portfolio did not reveal any instances in which political considerations were
influential in project approval.



represented by the Chambers of Industry of the "Costa" and the "Sierra", holds
the remaining seats on the Board. The Board approves all operations exceeding S/1
mil lion.
!4. 02   An Executive Committee of the Board is composed of the chairman, another
board member, and the general manager. The Ebcecutive Committee approves all
transactions ranging in value from S/200,000 to S/1 million.
4.03     Management and staff. CV-CFN is headed by a general manager, who has the
authority to approve all-'financing below S/200,000.  It is organized into four
functional units, each headed by assistant managers who are responsible for admini-
stration; project evaluatiorn and industrial studies; project supervision, resource
mobilizatior and budget preparation; and identification of new projects.  The
latter unit was created in 1972 since CV-CFN decided to become increasingly
involved in the development of large and complex industrial projects, particularly
mixed and Governmeft-sponsored. As CV2-CF has grown, responsibility has been
largely decentralized and delegated to the sub-managers (effectively by-passing
t,EU geneical sub-manager who seems to have nio real authority). As a result,
dce ie on making has been speeded up without apparently affecting the {quality of
ecis ions; however,.overall coiitrol and coordination have been hampered.
CV-CFN's staff has grown annually at about 13X. p.a. during the past three
years and at mid-1972 total staff numbered 139, including 57 professionals.
,V-CFN has a braneh in Ouayaquil (7 employees) and agencies in Cuenca (it employees)
and Manta (3 employees).  These offices have no approval authority and serve as
liaison with clients.
4. .i    Appraisal. CV-CFNIs capacity to appraise and review projects continues t,o
improve. Recent appraisal reports are more comprehensive and thorough than in
the oast.  In genera., they satisfactorily assess the finannial and technical
viability of projects.
L1 .2k;    O,-CFN 's economic evaluation. of projects is rudimentary.  Its management
-  well -.ware of this apprai-al shortcoming and, with the technical assistance of
.3 under a six-month technical assistance program, is presently taking steps to
remedy it. Like 0OFISC, OV-CFN has agreed with the Bank on a methodology for assessing
the internal economic and financial rates of return of projects  abo'# the free limit
submitted under the  xropcsed loan
1.07     S.ervision. SVervIsion is adequate, but could be further iproved.
Although visits to clienta are being conducted with =mre freouency, -the  still
remixIn confined mostly to firms expriencing difficulties or in which CY-CPN has
a large exposure.  Considering CV-CN Is large clientele, this ewphasa±  is understand-
able.  To a large extent, further i  rovement in the. quality of CV-OW1N   follow-up
work appears to haYs been impairod by the irregular. and partial informtion provided
by borrowers wbo}, i               dQ not  eet the reporting requirements specified
in loan contracts. CV-M is aware that it will need to be more diligent in obtaining
this intormation -,
4.08     Dixbq;EM t an  EE cut.  CV-CBN IIs paxtiuularly stri't, in defining
and eaforcing_the_e ditions.hi=ch GIh borrower  alst fdlfill before disbursements
are made.  As far as pro.urement is concerned, CV-CFW do"s not requir. interna-
tional competitive bidding from its customers, but satisfies itself that the



- 15 -
equipment and machinery to be financed meet the technical needs of the project
and are competitive with goods of similar quality.
Resources
1.09       Net worth, which amounted to S/555 million at June 30, 1972VUaccounts
for about half of total assets and has been CV-CFN's most important financial
resource. It is also its only source of funds to cover the local currency require-
ments of its clients, except for occasional small loans from the Central Bank to
overcome temporary liquidity constraints.
4.10       CV-CFN's external borrowings increased substantially from S/175 million
to S/1124 million (142X) between June 30, 1970 and June 30, 1972. In order of
importance they are IDB (6 loans, US$22.5 million), the Bank (2 loans, US$7.7
million), KfW (2 loans, US$5.3 million), AID (1 loan, US$L.7 million), and the
Andean Development Corporation (1 loan, US$1.4 million). CV-CFN has also obtained
lines of credit totalling US$2.5 million equivalent from Switzerland. With the
exception of the latter, under which procurement is restricted to Swiss goods,
utilization of these loans has been rapid (see Annex 22).
)4.11      CV-CFN's utilization of Bank funds has been almost entirely confined to
the US$4.0 million portion of Loan 721-EC, which, as of April 30, 1973, had been
fully committed and 88g disbursed. The fisheries loan (555-EC), under which
US$3.7 million is available to CV-CFN for financing the construction and equipping
of purse seiners, has remained practically unutilized over the past two years due
to delays in awarding construction contracts for the vessels. However, disburse-
ments have doubled in recent months (to US$525,000), and delivery of the first
four vesselsis now scheduled during July-October 1973.
Financial Results
4.12       Independent audit. CV-CFN's accounts are audited annually by Price Water-
house & Co. The audit is lacking in the same areas as COFIEC's, and CV-CFN has
agreed to require its auditors to (a) make a Judgement as to the adequacy of
provisions to cover expected loss on loan and equity portfolio, and (b) provide
a statement indicating CV-CFN's exposure to foreign exchange risk.
1.13       Quality of industrial portfolio. As of June 30, 1972, loan principal
in arrears was primarily of a temporary nature involving relatively small amounts
of less than S3/400,000.  Principal in arrears over three months amounted to S/13
million (2% of the industrial loan portfolio) and involved 36 companies, the outstand-
ing loan principal of which totalled S/87 million (see footnote to Annex 23). Pros-
pects for recovery of arrears are good, since guarantees covering CV-CFN's loans
are ample in each case. A review of borrowers experiencing difficulties indicates
that CV-CFN may suffer losses of only about S/3-4 million as compared to a total
industrial portfolio of S/63)i million. This risk is amply covered by a provision
of S/9.6 million for doubtful loans.
1/ The Closing date of CV-CFN's fiscal year.



- 16 -
4.14      Foreign exchange risk. From its inception, CV-CFN carried the foreign
exchange risk on its foreign borrowings. However, under the first Bank loan,
the Government agreed to assume this risk (see paragraph 3.15). In August 1970
OV-CFN suffered a foreign exchange loss of S/70 million, which exceeded net
profits and extraordinary income and reduced reserves by S/26 million. In
December 1971 CV-CFN incurred a foreign exchange loss of S/9 million, which
reduced net profit by 29%. The Government is required to reimburse CV-CFN for
the latter loss under its loan agreement with the Bank; however, this would be
waived if the arrangements described below are adopted.
4.15      The Government has proposed that the present system, under which it
assumes the exchange risk on all of CV-CFN's foreign borrowings, be amended. It
reasons that CV-CFN, which is provided with budgetary resources, is tax-exempt,
and retains all earnings, should have sufficient reserves to sustain itself against
any foreseeable foreign exchange loss. COFIEC's situation is quite different:
its stockholders demand dividends; its capital is small) and adequate levels of
profitability are essential to develop new shareholder interest, COFIEC would
therefore be unable to bear the kind of risk that CV-C0FN could assume.  Consequently,
as a means of increasing CV-CFN's accountability while still requiring a more limited
governmental backing, it was agreed during negotiations that the Government would: (a)
allow CV-CFN to carry the foreign exchange risk on foreign borrowings (other than
Bank loans); (b) restore OV-CFN's capital to the level existing prior to any loss wihich,
as a result of a devaluation of the sucre and/or revaluation of a foreign currency,
would impair its capital (i.e. a loss exceeding the total of net profits and free
reserves); and c) study the possibility of channeling all future foreign exchange
borrowings by CV-CFN through the Government so as to resolve the question of
foreign exchange risk on future loans.
h.16      These changes would require amendment of the Loan Agreement for Loan
721-EC and would also provide justification for waiving the reimbursement due to
CV-CFN by the Government for the S/9 million loss incurred by the former due to
revaluation of the DM.
4-17      Profitability.  While re-lending rates remain fixed, CV-CFNUs operating
costs are rising due to increasing cost of funds and an increase in administrative
costs, the latter because of the necessity for hiring additional staff, rising
salaries, and the establishment of the new Promotions Department, whose contribu-
tion to income will be deferred for some time. Consequently, while gross income
for FY 1972 rose 23% over 1971, operating expenses rose 31% and thus operating
income increased only 10%.
4.18      CV-CFN's most important source of income is interest on loans, which
made up over two-thirds of gross income in FY 1972. Government bond operations
were also important and aided profitability as well, since, although amounting
to 23% of total portfolio, they yielded 28% of gross income. This result, added
to the fact that CV-CFN does not have to pay taxes, more than compensates for the
negative effect on CV-CFN's profitability of other operations carried out for
the Government (see paragraph 4.26).  Income from equity investments has not
been important and represents only- a 1% return on equity portfolio.



- 17 -
,.19     Net profit (before extraordinary gain/loss) amounted to S/26 million
.n 1971 and S/31 million in 1972 and, as a percentage of average total assets,
amounted to 2.5% in 1971 and 2.7% in 1972. This return is satisfactory in
comparison with other public DFCs to which the Bank has granted loans.
I. 20    Financial condition.  Because it has a number of functions which do
not have a direct bearing on its industrial lending activities, CV-CFN, at the
behest of USAID, has since 1967 kept its industrial financing separated from
its other activities through the creation of a Fund for Industrial Investments.
This fund, as such, does not appear on the balance sheet; rather, it is used a,,j
a means of internal control. Its resources are foreign borrowings for industriaj
financing, industrial loan repayments, and periodic allocations from CV-CFN's
cwn funds for local currency requirements of projects. Two other funds, the
Fimd for Financing Small Industry and the Fund for Promotion of Exports, are als
tools for financial management and are not accounts on CV-CFN s books, wbose
organic law limits the total of its lending in these fields to the total of its
capital allocated for this purpose and allocations created from profits of these
cperations.  A review of CV-CFN's accounts indicates that the companiy has
nmaintained a proper segregation of its assets and corresponding liabilities as
prescribed in its operating policies and procedures and under its loan contract
with the Bank.
t.21     CV-CFN also has guidelines covering its risks as a fiduciary agent.
By law it is required to maintain liquid assets equal at least to 10 of the par
value of Government bonds for which it has provided a repurchase guarantee. As
of June 30, 1972, CV-CFN's cash assets alone were equal to 17A of the total of
its repurchase obligations. The market for Government bonds has been stable
and it is not anticipated that this situation will change in the near future.
Consequently, CV-CFN s liquidity should be sufficient to provide for any cyclical
demands for repurchasing of these securities and, overall, current assets as a
whole were more than three times current liabi-lities at the same date.
4.22     CV-CFN's equity is so substantial (US$21 million equivalent) that, in
spite of its borrowings from AID, IDB, KfW and the Bank, total debt (including
repurchase obligations and total debt of controlled companies) amounted to only
1.6 times equity as of June 30, 1972 (see Annex 25), well within its L:1
limitation under Loan 721-EC. CV-CFN has a lower limit than COFIEC, due to the
latterts high proportion of short-term debt.
u. 23    Policiesandprocedures.  CV-CFN's operations have been conducted within
the framework of its Declaration of Policies and Procedures, shown in Annex 20.
Since CV-CFN has forecast an expanded role in the promotion of government-owned
and mixed industrial enterprises, it agreed to amend its objectives (Article 1 of
lts Declaration of Policies and Procedures), which make no mention of this
activity. Such azendment would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed
loan to CV-CFN.
Operations
h. 2it    Operations for the Government.  Since inception, CV-CFN has had a
fiduciary role in the sale of government and municipal bonds, as well as mortgage
bonds issued by ComMrolal banks. CV-CFN first buys the bonds at a discount
and-then resells them to third parties at par with a guarantee to repurchase on
presentation (as of June 30, 1972, CV-C1I's repurchase obligations amounted to
S/32L  million).  Although these operations affect CV-CFNts liquidity (see



- 18 -
paragraph ,2l1'), they have also aided profitability, since CV-CFN is allowed
to account for bond discounts as income at the time of sale (see paragraph 418).
L 25    Since 1970, when a ceiling on direct loans from BC to the Government was
established by the Junta Ibnetaria as a means of controlling inflation, the Govern-
ment has been using CV-CFN to obtain additional funds without having to apply to
the Junta to raise the ceiling. It has emppowered CV-CPN to sell notes with an
interest rate of 8, and,CV-CFP  is obliged to use the proceeds of sales to purchase
government bonds bearing a 9% coupon, providing it with a 1X spread on the transac-
A.un.  CV-CFN Is only is0ae, S/lO0 million in 1971, was entirely subscribed by
-:-immercial banks, which., for the purchase of such securities, are allowed to use
n to 10% of tneir non-interest bearing legal reserves maintained at the Central
b6ank. CV-C:FN also has recently acted as a "post office" in channelling funds
f'rom BC to the Government. In December 1970, BC made a 13-month 'Loan of S/20
marilion to CV-CFN, which the latter immediately re-lent to the Government.
CV-CFN ts spread was 1%. Direct loans and discounts made to the Government have
been few; S/6 million was outstanding at, June 30, 1972.
l -26    CV-CFN is also required to allocate a portion of its capital and to
segregate 1% of its gross income as resources for two f'unds (excluding incorne
generated by the operations of these funds) which have been established for the
financing of infrastructure and for export promotion. The Government, on its
part, has contributed S/38 mi:llion for fund operations. In addition, CV-CFN
is obliged to pay part of the operating expenses of other Government agenciesJf
which in themselves are not revenue-producing (about S/5-6 million per year).
Taking into account that as a governmental institution CV-CFN does not have to
pay taxes, and has receiv-d substantial budget resources, the net effect of its
government operations on, CV-CFNt s financial structure is positive.
4. 27   'Industrial operations. CV-CFN has been growing rapidly since it began
to operate as a DFC in 1964. Approvals increased from S/106 million in 1965
to S/lo10 million in 1971, i.e., an average annual growth rate of about 25%.
Commitments have followed a similar development, except over the past 18 monti-i-
when they have tended to lag slightly behind approvals due to slower proiect
implementation resulting from the devaluation of the sucre in 1970 and the
tightening of credit which followed. Commitments increased at an average
annual rate of 22%, from S/57 million in 1965 to S/189 million in 1971. Dis-
bursements rose from S/21s million to S/194 million (allt p.a.).
24. 2 8    CV-CFN has granted loans totalling 3/1.24 billion since its inception,
and its portfolio is well diversified. Most loans have been made to the manu-
.facturing sector (76%) with the balance going to tourism, fishing, forestry and
utilities. Of its loans, 86% have been approved for the financing of fixed
assets and the balance (14%) for working capital.  The average amount lent has
J n nstituto de Comercio E5xterior e Integracion, Centro de Desarrollo Industrial,
25uperintendencia de Bancos, Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Instituto
Ecuatoriano de Normalizacion.



- 19 -
been S/3 million and most of the loans (74%) have been granted for periods
of between 5 and 10 years. Guayaquil and Quito have accounted for 73% (33'ko
for Quito and 40% for Ouayaquil), reflecting the concentration of industry
in these areas. During the first semester of 1972, 9uito accounted for 33%
of CV-CFN's approvals against only 5% for Ouayaquil/.
h.29     So far, CV-CFN's equity participations have been primarily oriented
to projects which have required government assistance in their promotion. As
a result, most of CV-CFN's equity investments are in companies which are in the
pre-operating stage.  As of June 30, 1972, equity portfolio consisted of saires
of 12 companies (kee Annex 24), the acquisition value of which was S/101 millior,
(a three-fold increase over June 30, 1970), representing 14% of total loan and
equity portfolio and 18% of net worth. Dividend income and capital gains on
these investments have been nominal (see paragraph h.'18). Nevertheless, CV-CFN
intends to give continuing emphasis to equity investments in its promotional
efforts.
Prospects
4.30    Forecast of operations.  Wiith prospects for private and public industri-.
investment expected to increase, and given the important role that CV-CiM1 is
being assigned in the promotion of government-owned and mixed enterprises  the
demand for CV-CFN!s financing is forecast to increase substantially.  On tim
basis, CV-CFN has projected loan and equity commitments totalling S/3,393
through 1977, of which S/654 million would be for short-term loans, S/2,(17 ni? Tl 7
for medium  and long-term loans, and S/622 million for equity investment (see
Annex 27). This would result in an average commitment growth of about 28- p.:t.
as compared to 22X p.a. over 1967-72.
4.31     On the basis of the Bank's two-year lending horizon, CV-CFN s loan anc-
equity comnitments are expected to amount to S/1,176 million, of which S/Ili
million equivalent would be for import financing, and S/219 million for equity
investments.  This expectation is borne out by CV-CFN's pipeline of pending prc.-
In the second semester of 1972, CV-CFN reviewed  54 projects requiring US',3 milv
in foreign exchange financing.  As commitments are running at about 70% of requt. .
probably about 10 projects requiring US$5-6 million will eventually be committed 
If this level is simply maintained (a reasonable assumption given the increase
in investment activity), CV-CFN would need to commit about US$11-12 million
annually in foreign exchange financing during 1973-75. CV-CFN has not established
a clear-cut demand for local currency financing. Instead, it has established
the goal of increasing both the absolute and relative amounts of such financing
to the end of increasing local currency lending from the present 14% of total
potiblio to 20%.
4.32     Given Ecuador's expected increase in investment activity, and existing
demand, the above projections appear to be attainable provided adequate local
and foreign resourcs can be obtained.
.  Considerable uncertainty has apparently existed in Guayaquil regarding the
policies of thea Government which took power in April 1971. IiVeVer,
the business comiit;y's "wait-and-see"l attitude seems to be changing
as its comfidence in the new regime grows.



- 20 -
4.33     Resource requirementr.  CV-%.YN X    resource pcsitian as of June 30, 1972,
showed uncommitted domestic reouecee Or ,3/21 mill3on and uikeewmitted foreign
exchange resources of S/88 million equivalent, i.e. a total o.f S/4109 million.
Since the five-year forecast of operations will call, for ~bcut S/3,893 million
of industrial financing, of whioh 5/2.310  bi.l1ion will be in foreign exchange,
CV-CFN will have to obtairn about S/3,783 million in net finds.  In the light of
the magn-itude of its future foreign exchange needs, estimated at S/2,221 million
for the 1973-77 period, CV-G'_N :will continue to depend on its traditional
creditors:  the World Bank for S/7,C i;iilli, IDB for S/752 million, KfW for
S/78 million, and credit r'llovei, (primarily AID s) for the remainder. As
regards its five-year domestic currency n6ads, projec-ed at S3/,562 million, CV-
CFN intends to fill them with bond issues for S/363 million, loans from the Central
Bank for S/60 million, sale of equity investments for S/28 million, internal
cash generation for  j/307 million, and loan repayments for the remainder.
L.-34    Over the next two year.u,s, CV- 10-    _'or~eeasti av-;ailability of resources
indicates that it will be able to meet itQ e.xpected S/460 rtillion needs in
dcinestic resources but that, it spite of r centl4 received loans from IDB and
KfW, a foreign exchange gap of aDout US$9-10 million will probably start to
develop  late in 1973 (see Annex 28)X  A Bank loan of US$8 million and access
without qualification to an additianLl ilaxiidtwn of US4L million would therefore
be  +i*7   over the 1973-7.4 period.
'.t:8 . IS CV~~~~-CFT                  iiias     thle    rescareds    newlEEl     to    meet
Financial plojections. If CV- CF  obtain   h   acicsnee   ome
.,$:e forecast volume of demand, loan portfolio wjould increase aore than three
time8 over the period 1973-77 while equity portfolic would show a six-fold increase.
Holdings of securities and loans to the Goveniment would be expEcted to decrease
gradually.  As a consequences total assets wou7ld gro- at ars average of 24t p.a.
over the period (see Annex 29), annual net income wolCi bu., zxpectev to increase
at an average of 25% over the period (see Annex 30), and tt  debt/squity ratio
.4oulx.d grow until by 1977 i+ would have i;eached 3:1.  Ftetvil on ai erage total
asset,s would slightly decrease Prom 2.7A at the end of FE 1972 to 2.5% in 1977.
Since admrinistrative expenses are expected t.o inicrease by only 14; p.a., as a
peLcentage of average total a-,ets they would dcecrease 11rom 2 % as of June 30,
19'?72, tc 1.9% five years later.  OveraLl, CV.-CTFN's finandia> condition is,
-.herefore,  e:pected to remain satisfac ,ory.
VJ. PPROOS)O BRANY LOAN
Th!e Proj3 ect,
IL '1  It is proposed tuat a Jcan or US$4O io'i±li btl g..tad to the Republic
oi EkT-uador. The loan would be chani&elled thurouga DC as trustee / iior the Govern-
mezit, and re-lent to COFIEC and CV-RFN.  Bank f£nds would be available to
qual-ifying industrial enterprises, whether privdtely or publicly awned, for the
financing of foreign exchange costs of imported oquipment and permanent working
capital, through either loans or equity investmints. The tenrmial date for
submission of sub-projects would be December 31, 1975; the closing date for disburse-
ments December 31, 1977.
B1 BC I5 function is to act as the Goizvruaent is ixinnciai aL mt, with rtespoasibility
limited to handling disbursements and repayments of sub-loans.



- 21 -
Allocation of the Loan
5.02       Though the first loan of US$8 million was allocated equally between
the two companies, utilization was uneven. The second loan will need to take
this factor into account and the following allocation is recommended:
(a) US$8 million will be allocated individually to COFIEC
and to CV-CFN;
(b) US$4 million would remain unallocated and would be available
to either of the two DFCs on a first-come-first-served basis.
In order to have access to the full US$4 millicn, COFIEC
would need to first increase its equity to S1110 million.
Interest Rate
5.03       Cost of Bank funds. The inelasticity of interest rates (both nominal
and effective) in the banking system makes them a poor indicator for establishing
the opportunity cost of capital. On the other hand, rigidities introduced by the
Government's monetary policy have limited the ability of the money market to
respond to changes in interest rates. Since most investors are concerned with a
fixed and guaranteed return on their funds, an additional uncertainty is introduced
into the concept of opportunity cost. Consequently, the only way of arriving at
a reasonable price for Bank funds is to assess the appropriateness of each of
the costs which have to be met before the funds reach their ultimate
user. A 4% spread is recowmended for the proposed loan (3 1/2% under the first
loan), which, although rather high in relation to other IFCts, is equal to the
spread under the livestock loan, and would be justifiable since costs are rising
faster than income for both COFIEC and CV-CFN. BC received a fee of 1% under
Loan 721-EC. Since BC's function is limited to channelling funds, it will not
receive a fee under the proposed loan.
5.04      Exchange risk coverage. Under the first loan, the Government assumed
the foreign exchange risk for a nominal charge, which was fixed in the case of
CV-CFN (a one-time fee of 0.5% payable on every disbursement) and variable for
COFIEC (0.25% p.a.). To minimize the element of subsidy a reasonable charge
should be assessed by the Government for the foreign exchange risk coverage.
Historically, the devaluation of the Ecuadorian sucre in relation to the US dollajr
averaged between 2.5-4.0% in recent years, depending on the time period selected.
Although a fee within this range would be the most appropriate one, the Government
of Ecuador argued that a fee of this magnitude would be excessive, given the
present and expected favorable balance of paymnts position of Ecuador. As a
result, a compromise fee of 1.75%, which is considerably higher than that charged
under Loan 721-EC, was agreed upon.
5.05       The total cost to the ultimate borrower would be 13% (7.25% + 1.75% +
4.00%). Since the legal limit on interest rates in Ecuador is 12%, COFIEC would
charge an additional 1% fee for evaluation and supervision.
1/ Since the Ecuadorian experience has been one of relative exchange stability
over a long period followed by a substantial devaluation, shortening the
period would cause a rise in the average rate of sucre depreciation (the
average is 2.5% for 1951-71, 3.5 for 1957-72, and 4.0% for 1961-71).



- 22 -
Sub-loan Conditions
5.06       Sub-loans to the final borrower would have the following conditions:
(a) maximum term of 15 years including a grace period not exceeding
3 years;
(b) effective cost of 13%, including (i) interest rate of 12% p.a.;
(ii) supervision fee of 1% p.a.
5.07       Given the quality of appraisals received by the Bank under the first
financiera loan, an increase is proposed in the individual limit from US$100,000
to US$200,000, below which sub-loans would not require the Bank's prior approval
(the "free limit"). An aggregate limit of US$4 million for sub-projects below
the free limit is recommended for each DFC.
5.08       COFIEC has requested, and the Bank has agreed, to reimburse COFIEC
for disbursements made after May 7, 1973 for selected sub-projects approved by
the Bank. COFIEC has submitted 8 sub-projects totalling US$1.9 million for Bank
consideration, and COFIEC expects that it could require disbursements of up to
US$1 million prior to the signing of the Loan.
VI   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMM0 DATICN
6.01       During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
a) re-lending terms (see paragraph 5.06);
b) safeguarding CV-CFNts capital from impairment due to foreign
exchange loss (see paragraph 4.15);
c) foreign exchange risk coverage fee of 1.75% (see paragraph 5.OL);
d)  reimbursement of COFIEC for disbursements made from May 7, 1973
for selected sub-projects approved by the Bank (see paragraph 5.08);
e) introduction of economic analysis for sub-projects exceeding
US$200,000 (see paragraphs 3.05 and 4.06);
f)  increase in COFIEC's share capital (see paragraph 3.22).
6.02       A condition of effectiveness of the loan will be the amending of CV-CFN's
and COFIEC policy statements (see paragraphs 3.23 and 4.23).
6.03       The proposed prc~ject would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$20 million to the Government of Ecuador under terms and conditions usual
for Bank loans to development finance companies; to be used for sub-loans with
a term of not more than 15 years, and a grace period of not more than 3 years.



ANNEX 1
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
ECUADOR: INDUJSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT LAW (MAIN PROVISIONS)
1.        The chief purpose of the Law of Industrial Development is to stimu-
late the development of manufacturing enterprises which, (i) can produce items
not presently manufactured in Ecuador, and (ii) satisfy existing markets in
which the quality of items presently produced in deficient or insufficient
to meet demand, or which are produced for export.
2.        In order to receive particular benefits, firms would have to qualify
in the following categories:
(a)  "Special Category - high priority projects located in non-
industrialized regions, or involving regional integration;
(b)  "A" Category - projects exporting at least 50% of output, pro-
ducing intermediate goods for industry, or substituting for imports;
(c) "B" Category - a general category for other projects having an
economic benefit for the country.
3.        An Interministerial Committee is responsible for selecting those
enterprises which meet the established criteria. General benefits granted
to all qualifying firms include tax concessions or incorporation and issuing
bonds or shares, relief from taxes on exports and on imports of needed raw
materials, 30% reduction on duties on imported equipment, deduction of new
investments from income tax (only if ownership involves 100 or more share-
holders, with no single ahareholder holding more than 4% of total shares).
In addition firms that export can receive Tax Credit Certificates (CAT)
which are negotiable and contain subsidies ranging from 7-15% of the f.o.b.
value (rate of subsidy varies with the quantity exported in the previous
year). However, in order to reduce the drain on tax revenues, CATs issued
after December 1971 are not redeemable until July 1973.
4.        Particular benefits are the following:
(a) for the Special Category - exemption from all taxes, and duties
(except sales taxes) for the first five years of existence, and after
the sixth year exemption from all duties for inporting equipment and
70% of raw materials;
(b)  for Category "A" - exemption from all duties covering imports of
equipment and 65% for raw material;
(c) for Category "B" - exemption from all duties covering imports of
equipment.
LCPDF
April 9, 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIRA PROJECT
ECGUADOR: LEGAL INTEREST AND REDISCOUNT RATES
Annual Percent
After
Type of Operation                                                               Res. 5L3 1/
General
Maximum civil or commercial rate                                                 12
Maximum for overdue loans                                                        14
Central Bank
ro private banks
Ordinary rediscounts and advances                                              8
General emergency-rediscounts (Article 66 of
Monetary Law)                                                                5
Special rediscounts to cover reserve deficiencies                             10
Discount of acceptances
Agricultural                                                                5
Industrial                                                                  7
Commercial                                                                  8
To investment banks
Rediscounts                                                                    ;
Discount of acceptances
Agricultural                                                                5
Industrial
Commercial                                                                  8
To National Development Bank
Rediscounts and advances for agriculture                                       b
Rediscounts for small industry                                                 7
Funds for commercial credit                                                    8
To general public (Article 65 of Monetary Law)
Loans, discounts and advances                                                 1?
Discount of acceptances
Agricultural                                                                5
Industrial                                                                  7
Commercial                                                                 1(
To public sector
Credit to Central Government                                                   3
Credit to rest of public sector                                                5
Credit to semi-public financial institutions                                   6
Operations to finance future exports
Credit operations (Regulation No. 006)                                            6
Readjustment of interest when export not realized                                12
Crectit operations by private banks and investment banks
Maximum for credit operations                                                    12
Maximum for overdue credits                                                      l4
Overdrafts 2/                                                                    12
Mortgage bond issues
On mortgage bonds, warehouse bonds, etc. 3/                                      12
On overdue payments on mortgage loans (Article 213
of the General Banking Law)                                                   14



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Annual Percent
After
Type of Operation                                                              Res. 545 1/
Credit operations of the National Development Bank
Maximum for agricultural credit                                                   8
Maximum for industrial credit                                                   10
Maximum for conmercial credit                                                   12
(In addition there are commissions of up to 1 percent
in the case of ordinary loans and up to 2 percent in
the case of mortgage loans levied in special cases
to cover the costs of inspection and supervision, and
also to constitute a fund against exchange risk on
foreign lending resources)
Tnterest on deposit liabilities
Interest payments on current and short-term deposits
prohibited                                                                  None
Savings deposits                                                                 6
Savings deposits in savings and loan associations                                7
Time Oer-  ,s. in savings departments of commercial banks
,-4&C lays                                                                   7
1l<-360 days                                                                   8
Over one year                                                                  9
Term deposits in savings and loan associations, including
f'ixed-tenrm savings deposits
31-180 days                                                                   8
161-360 days                                                                   8
*.ver one year                                                                10
Tirre deposits in cormercial departm-ents
31- 90 days
91-180 days                                                                   7
181-360 days                                                                   8
Over nne year                                                                  9
.cdrce:  FMonetary Board Resolution Nio. 5h5.
lj  Ef fec tive from January 23, 1970.
2   Plus commission of 1/2% «n debtor checking accounts; 1%-on oeceaional overdrafts.
f;,'#iic"..     prejudice to the commdission of up to 2% to be paid by the borrower.
L2JPDF
April 9, 11973



ANNEX 3
Page I
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINAN(IERA PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPANIA FINANCIhRA)
List of Major Shareholders as of September 30, 1_972
Nwnber of Shares      % of
(Par Value = S/100.0)   Total
I. Private Ecuadorian Shareholders
1.  Fabrica Textil La Internacional S.A.               28,114             4.20
2.  Banco de Pichincha                                22,908              3.42
3.  Nvlonolitica S.A.                                 19,252              2.87
4.  Ingenieros Nacionales Constructores Aso-
ciados, INCA                                     15,638              2.33
5.  Banco de Guayaquil                                10,448              1.56
6.  Fernando Lebed                                    10,378              1.55
7.  Valpo Investment Company                           9,063              1.35
8. Banco La Filantropica                                7,671             1.14
9. Ecuatoriana de Aviacion S.A.                        6,422              0.96
10.  Laboratorios Life                                   6,307             0.94
11.  Durex S.A.                                          6,089             0.91
12.  Compaflia Ecuatoriano-Suiza de Seguros             5,731              0.85
13.  Juan Jos6 Vilaseca                                  5,414             0.81
14.  Banco Popular del Ecuador                           5,358             0.80
15.  Banco de Descuento                                  5,087             0.76
16.  Ecuatoriana de Artefactos S.A., ECASA               5,004             0.75
17.  Inmobiliaria Goncho's Cia. Ltda.                    4,800             0.72
18.  Esteban Quirola Figueroa                           4,219              0.63
19.  Cia. Azucarera Valdez S.A.                         4,003              0.60
20.  Guillermo Vasquez                                   3,861             0.58
21.  Iiolinos del Ecuador C.A.                          3,657              0.54
22.  Ecuadorian Rubber Company                          3,419              0.51
23.  Leopoldo Arteta                                     3,317             0.49
24.  Fabrica de Cigarrillos El Progreso S.A.             3,160             0.47
25.  Jose Ant6n Daz                                      3,o64             0.46
26.  Camara de Industriales de Pichincha                 2,941             0.44
27.  Banco del Azuay                                     2,800             0.42
28.  C.A. El Comercio                                    2,782             0.41
20.  Sociedad Agricola e Industrial San Carlos           2,671             0.40
30.  Niorisaenz S.A.C.                                   2,550             0.38
31.  Industrias Ales C.A.                                2,472             0.37
32.  C.A. El Universo                                    2,424             0.36
33.  Banco de Machala                                   2,293              0.34
34.  Fosforera Ecuatoriana S.A.                          2,293             0.34
35.  Corporaci6n Pesquera Ecuatoriana, COPESA            2,249             0.33
36. Francisco Amador Ycaza                               2,20Y             0.33
37.  Textiles San Antonio S.A.                           2,038             0.30
35.  Farmacias y Boticas Ecuatorianas C.A.               2,000              0.30
39. Promociones Delta-Beta                               1,600             0.24
40.  Soc. FTnanciera y Comercial del Pacifico            1,506             0.22



AMNEX 3
Page 2
Number of Shares         ;6 of
(Par Value = S/100.0)       Total
41.  Litografia e Imprenta La Reforma          1,488               0.22
42.  Coxnpafiia Ecuatoriana de Balsa           1,468               0.22
43.  Luis Vallejo Araujo                       1,390               0.21
44.  Oleica S.A.                               1,351               0.20
45. Jaboneria Asociada S.A.                    1,351               0.20
46.  Cultivo y Extraccion de Oleaginosas       1,351               0.20
47.  conipanhia de Cervezas Nacionales         1,263               0.19
48.  Juan H. Krfger S.A.                       1,260               0.19
49.  C. Vitral Ltda.                           1,259               0.19
50.  Creditos lvercantiles C.A.                1,237               0.18
51.  Cervecerias y hialteria La Victoria S.A. 1,221                0.18
52.  Botica y Laboratorios H.G.                1,206               0.18
53.  Agustin Febres Cordero Tyler              1,168               0.17
54.  Grace y Cia.                              1,133               0.17
55.  Industrial Jabonera Ecuatoriana S.A.    1,123                 0.17
56.  Sociedad General                          1,122               0.17
57.  Ftancisco Piana hatto                     1,121               0.17
58.  6intofil S.A.                             1,115               0.17
5S.  Constructora Nacional de Carreteras
S.A.                                     1,083               0.16
60.  Astra C.A.                                1,04B               0.16
61.  Cia. An6nima Balda Industrial iiercantil 1,019                0.15
62.  Ind. Ecuatoriana Elaborados de Cacao
S .A.                                    1,003               0.15
123 Shareholders with holdings of
1,000 shares or less                    34,288               5.12
Sub-total         2908,280              44.52
II. Governmental Ecuadorian Shareholder
1. Comisi6n de Valores - Corporaci6n
Financiera Nacional                      50,876               7.59
III.  Foreign-Owned Ecuadorian Shareholders
1.  Banco de Tondres y hontreal Ltdo.
(Quito)                                 7,472                1.11
First National City Bank (Quito)          5,582               0.83
3.  Bank of America (Guayaquil)               5,447               0.81
Sub-total          18,501                2.76



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Number of Shares      ,¢ of
(Par Value = S/100.0)   Total
IV. Ebreign Shareholders
1.  ADELA Investment Company                        78,781             11.76
2.  International Finance Corporation               55,000              8.21
3.  Continental International Finance Corp.         47,946              7.16
4.  The Fidelity International Bank                 25,o43              3.74
5.  Wells Fargo Bank                                24,362              3.64
6.  Banco Cafetero (Colombia)                       23,143              3.45
7.  Banhaus Hermann Lampe                           21,869              3.26
8.  New York Hanseatic Corporation                  10,175              1.52
9.  Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional (Colombia)       9,780              1.46
10.  American Swiss Credit Co.                        4,840              0.72
4 Shareholders with holdings of
less than 1,000 shares                         1,356              0,20
Sub-total           302,295            45.12
Grand Total        669,952            100.00
LCPDF
April 9, 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLIO S. A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
List of Board Members and Alternates as of September 30, 1972
Principal Directorsl1                    Alternate Directors
1.   William J. Anthony                       Thomas Carter
Senior Vice-President                    Executive Vice-President
The Fidelity Bank                       Wells Fargo Interamerican Bank
(Philadelphia, U.S.A.)                   (Miami., U.S.A.)
2.   Luis Ayora                               Eduardo Andrade Chiriboga
General Manager                         Assistant Manager
Comisi6n de Valores-Corporaci6n          Comision de Valores-Corporacion
Financiera Nacional (Quito)              Financiera Nacional (Quito)
Jose Iturralde Arteaga
Secretary
Comisi6n de Valores-Corporaci6n
Financiera Nacional (Quito)
3.   Guillermo Borja2/                        Guillermo Cordovez Dfvalos
Vice President                           Director
Banco del Pichincha (Quito)              Banco del Pichincha (Quito)
4.  Jose Antonio CorreaZ/                     Leonello Bertini
President and Chairman of the Board    (Quito)
COFIEC
(Quito)
5.   Hector del Rio /                         Leopoldo Arteta
Vice-President                          Manager
Continental Illinois National            Fabrica de Cigarrillos El Progreso
Bank and Trust Co. of Chicago            (Quito)
(Chicago, U.S.A.)
6.   Alberto Di CapuaZ/                       Marcel J. Laniado de Wind
President                                General Manager
Fundaci6n para la Educacion              Banco del Pac!fico (Guayaquil)
7.   Cesar Duran Ball6nS/                     Galo Villamar
General Manager                         Manager
Banco de Gaayaquil                       Farmacias y Boticas Ecuatorianas
(Guayaquil)                              (Quito)
8.   Justo Garcia Rayneri                     Luis Machado
International Finance Corporation        International Finance Corporation
Nashington,D.C.)                         (Washington, D.C.)



ANNEX h
Page 2
9.  Gerhard Kappelhoff-Wulff                Kurt Steffen
Representative                          General Manager
Bankhaus Hermann Lampe                  Peruinvest
(Buenos Aires, Argentina)               (Lima, Peru)
10.  Ernesto Ribadeneira ./                  Jaime Zaldumbide
General Manager                         Vice-President
Fabrica Textil La Internacional         Fa.brica Textil La Internacional
(Quito)                                 (Quito)
11.  Enrique SalasE/                         Jaime Guarderas Alomia
General Manager                         Manager
Cia. Ecuatoriano-Suiza de Seguros       Cia.Ecuatoriano - Suiza de Seguros
(Guayaquil)                             (Quito)
12.  Eduardo Sosa                            Patricio Alvarez Drouet
President                               Manager
Cerveceria y Malterha La Victoria       Industrias Ales
(Quito)                                 (Quito)
13.  Franz Stirnimann                        Rafael Montejo
Regional Manager                        Assistant Manager
Adela, Investment company               Adela, Investment Company
(Bogota, Colombia)                      (Bogota, Colombia)
14.  Juan Jose Vilasecay'                    Mario Ribadeneira
President                               Manager
Industrial FADESA, IJESA                Morisaenz S.A.C.
(Guayaquil)                             (Quito)
15. Mr. Clemente Yerovi Indaburu             Gabriel Rold6s Garces
Ex-President of the Republic of         Commercial Manager
Ecuador                                Empresa Electrica del Ecuador
(Guayaquil)                             (Guayaquil)
Hermann Lozano 0.
International Assistant Manager
Banco Cafetero
(Bogota, Colombia)
Fernando Lebed
Manager
Guayaquil Plywood S. A.
(Guayaquil)
Paul E. Hollos
President
American Swiss Credit Co., Ltd.
(New York, U.S.A.)
Gonzalo Ayora
(Quito)



ANNEX 
Page 3
Jaime Robalino
Manager
Industria Maderera Robalino
(Quito)
Federico Intriago Arratady
Executive Vice-President
COFIEC
(Guayaquil)
Cesar Monge
President
Cia de Cervesas Nacionales
(Guayaquil)
Erich 0. Grunebaum
Chairman of the Board
New York Hanseatic Corporation
(New York, U. S. A.
/ Itected by shareholders.
/ Executive Committee members.
/ Elected by Board of Directors.
LCPDF
May 6, 1973






ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A.
CObMPANIA FINANCIERA)
ORGANIZATION CHART
(SEPTEMBER 30. 1972)
_                         ~~~~~~~SHAREHOILDERS MEETING(
AU II
IN,-DEPENDENT AUDITORS    IALVARO IOC 
QUITO  kYATERNOUSE  CO.  |                          RD OF DIRE                             ISTANT 1   QUAYACI3IL OFPICE
I             __________________JUAN  CANALES _              I_
| EXECUTIVE COMIMITTEE
|    PREsIDENT      
JOSE AN,TONIO0 CORREA|
SeCRETARIES 2 , |
reEXCUT@VE VICE-PRESIDENIT|
FEOERtICO INTRIIAGO
SECRtETARIrS 2
QUITO OFFICE                                                .                                              UAYACKUIL OFFICE
TECRNICAL DEPTT           OPERATIONS DEPT              LEGAL DEP              INTERNATIONAL DEPT.                        TECHNICAL DEPT.             OPERATIOPNS DEPT.             LEGAL DEPT.
ASSISTANT MANAGER          ASSISTAN  MANAGER         COUNSELOR                  ASSISTANT MANAGER                        MANAGER                     ASSISTANT MANAGER          COUNSELOR
OSCAR MORA                 CARLOS LARREA              JULIO CORRAL               GUSTAVO BRAVO                            DANILO CARRERA             ANTONIO AROSEMENA           RENE GARCIA LLAGUNO
A-)lysv             I      Portoi &   a tsr.n         A.IMstnt                  Soc                  1                   Cr-dit Offrcnr        *     PoEtnyt & Inn-onft
Engmrtoo.           3       Conr               1     S-r,ro               I                                              An-lyft                       Control            2
LiY nockISp c.   1  Carhlmr            1                                                                         Ens-innr                   Accountnt 
S crawri.     2      Asanmtan            1                                                                          LZ..tock            1      Sb-A=OUnt            I
BookkPmprlr.        2                                                                         Seotmi.              3      Bookk/t              3
F:ijt lk P_rsnna    1                                                                                                     C..hi_        
S_crtab7ios         3                                                                          to b. oppoint d.           Socr tar 1b
LCPDF
April 9, 1973                                                                                                                                                                                         VkrId 5on- - 72941R)






ANNEX 6
Page 1
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO, S.A. CONPANIA FINANCIERA)
Declaration of Policy and Operating Procedures
(Approved by the Board of Directors on November 27, 1968)
The Board of Directors of COFIEC declares that the following guide-
lines on policies and procedures will govern its operations and that modi-
fications thereof or departures therefrom will only be adopted by the Board
after adequate opportunity has been given to all its members to review and
discuss the proposed changes or departures.
1.        COFIEC is a development finance company designed to assist in the
economic development of Ecuador, in particular the industrial sector of the
economy and such related fields as agriculture and cattle raising. To this
end, it will pursue an aggressive policy to promote, finance and otherwise
assist productive enterprises.
2.        COFIZO  will make its investment decisions only on the basis of
sound investment criteria and standards.
3.        Subject to the criteria set forth in paragraphs 2 and 9 hereof,
COFIEC will select projects on asbroad a geographical basis as possible.
4.        COFIEC will, as appropriate, make use of the entire range of
forms of investment. It will give particular attention to its client's
needs for equity financing and will provide such equity to the extent
consistent with sound financial practice.
5.        COFI0C's principal objective is the supply of medium- and long-
term financing. Accordingly, COFIFE will increase progressively and as
rapidly as its circumstances permit, the proportion of its resources
which are devoted to such financing.
6.        OOFIEC will diversify its financing (except for temporary invest-
ment of liquid funds in short-term securities) among different types of
industries and different types of financing.
a)   COFIBC will not normally commit to any single enterprise
in whatever form, including loans, share capital,
guarantees, or any combination thereof, an amount
greater than 20% of COFIBE's paid-in share capital,
free reserves and unappropriated surplus.
b)   COFIEC will not commit to any single enterprise in the
form of equity more than 15% of COFIEC's paid-in share
capital, free reserves and unappropriated surplus.
c)   The aggregate of COFIE C's equity investment will not
exceed the sum of its paid-in share capital, free
reserves and unappropriated surplus.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Exceptions to rules a) and b) may be made only after special consideration
of each case by the Board, and will be confined to enterprises with parti-
cularly sound financial prospects.
7.        COFIEC will refrain from taking a controlling interest in an
enterprise or any other interest which would give it primary responsibility
for management of an enterprise, except that in the case of jeopardy the
Board of Directors may take such actions as may be necessary to protect
COFIEC's interests. COFIEG will not normally take up more than 25% of the
voting shares of any single enterprise, except as may be temporarily neces-
sary in connection with an underwriting commitment undertaken in the ex-
pertation that the ultimate investment will be within the limit cited.
8.        COFIlC will conduct its operations in such manner as to assist
in the growth of a capital market in Ecuador and, to improve facilities
for marketing securities, will seek opportunities to underwrite securities,
and will revolve its own portfolio whenever it can do so on satisfactory
terms. In selling its investments, it will pay due regard not only to its
own interests but also to those of the other participants in the invest-
ment and to the interest of the enterprise whose shares are involved.
9.        COFIEC will finance only private enterprises which are soundly
managed and which appear, on careful economic, financial and engineering
investigation, to be economically viable and technically feasible.
10.       COFIEC will not ordinarily make loan commitments to any one client
for an amount less than the Sucre equivalent of US$20,000 for existing
enterprises and US$40,000 for new enterprises.
11.       COFIEC will not make loans to enterprises which are in arrears
in their tax payments or on payments of their social security contributions.
12.       COFIiC will build up a technically competent staff, capable of
carrying out the responsibilities which COFIEC's objectives imply (in-
cluding staff skilled in engineering, financial and economic analysis) and
able to provide services to clients which those objectives call for. COFIBC
will develop and maintain adequate systems of project appraisal and follow-
up and end-use supervision of its investments. Specific and periodic
reports prepared in exercise of this control function will constitute the
basis for periodic reviews of the investment portfolios by ibs Board of
Directors.
13.       COFIEC's operating expenses will be maintained at a minimum con-
sistent with the scope of its activities.and with the volume of its operations.
14.       In accordance with normal business practice, COFIEC will require
its borrowers to provide and to maintain adequate security, to keep records
and accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices and to furnish
whatever information on their operations and accounts COFIBE deenms desirable.
COFIEC will take the right to inspect the enterprises it finances as well
as their operations and accounts. Business secrets and other information
supplied by applicants or clients will be treated as confidential.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
15.       COFIEC will conduct its operations in such a manner as to main-
tain the value of its capital and secure a satisfactory profit. It will
build reserves consistent with sound financial practice; these will in-
clude reserves for bad debts and investment and, in addition, supplementar%
reserves.  Its dividend policy will be consistent with the foregoing.
16.       COFIhC will not carry the foreign exchange risk on external bor-
rowings, which it must repay in foreign exchange. It will pass the risk
on to its clients or find other suitable means to cover it.
17.       COFIEC will not incur, assume or guarantee any debt maturing more
than one year from the date on Which it is originally drawn down or assumed
if, after incurring or assuming such debt, the total amount of it then in--
curred and outstanding exceeds an amount equal to 4 times the aggregate
of COFIEC's paid-in capital, free reserves and unappropriated surplus.
18.       The maturities of COFIEC's assets will correspond with, or be
shorter than, the maturities of its liabilities.
19.       The Board of Directors of COFIEC will direct the operations of
COFIEC in such a way as to assure uniformity in the application of the
policies and guidelines set forth herein. In order to assure the imple-
mentation of this policy by the E&ecutive Committee, the Board will, at
each meeting, review the decisions of the Executive Conmittee in the interin
20.       COFIEC will have its books and accounts audited annually by a
firm of reputable independent public accountants.
LCPDF
April 9, 1973






EICIJADrR - AFFRAISAL OF THE SECONqD FINACInDA FR63ECT
ECUATDRIhN& DE DISARMLL S .A. (COMPANIA FINANCIIR)
Analysis of Disbursinenta-i' from  6e~io   through June.30. 1972
Six mouthi to             Total as of
(Calandar years)                                    96                   1967                  1968                  1969                  1970                  1971           300   0.1972              Junke 30, 1972
No.  AJo.nt   %   No.   Amount   71  No.   Amunt   %    Mo.   Amount   71   No.   Aunt   7No..                          ot          Np.    csor 
.8,Size
Up to   250,000                   5      0.8   1.4   18        3.6   2.6   32        7.5   3.4  220    37.5  10.1  172    21.0   5.9  196             22.7    5.1  107      11.9   4.0   750         105.0    5.6
250,001   -       500.000                 13      4.8   8.3   26       10.9   7.7   75    30.4  13.9  120    45.4  12.2   92             36.1  10.0  126       50.0  11.3   61       22.6    7.6    513       200.2  10.6
500,001   - 1,000.000                     14    14.8  25.6   30    25.1  17.8   48    40.1  18.4   98    69.8  18.8  104                 76.2  21.2  140    102.3  23.0   84    64.2  21.6    518             392.5  20.8
1.000,001   - 2.000.000                     11    17.5  30.3   16    23.6  16.7   34    57.4  26.3   61    87.4  23.6   67    96.1  26.8   91   127.3  28.7   61    89.1  30.0   341                            698.4  26.4
2.000,001   - 3,000.000                      5     13.9  24.1      7    20.6  14.6   18    51.8  23.7   21    51.7  14.0   15    37.0  10.3   22                 56.1  12.6   20    48.9  16.5   108            280.0  14.8
3.000.001 and above                          1      6.0  10.3    9    51.3  40.6         7    31.1  14.3   19    78.7  21.3   18    92.3  25.8   18              86.0  193    11    60.0  20.3    83            411.6  21.8
Total                         49    57.8 100.0  106    1.1100.0  214   283100.0  539   370.5 10.    6M5.   0.    9                                 4.   0.    4           9. 7 100.0 2,313       187.100
II. fly Economic Activity
eMnifacturing Sector
Food products and beverages               19    20.0  34.6   26    25.9  18,3   41    30.4  13.9   75    28.7   7.7   52    35.9  10.0   48                    33.9    7.6   35    25.2   8.5   296           200.0  10.6
Textiles  nd clothing                      5      7.4  12.8   12    20.8  14.8   26    24.8  11.4   23    35.4    9.6   27    24.3   6.8   32                  28.9   6.5   20    40.1  13.5   145            181.7   9.6
Paper and printing                         I      1.0   1.7      3      1.1   0.8    4       4.8   2.2   12        9.4   2.5   15    10.6   2.9   36           36.5   7.0    16      13.3   4.5    87          78.7   4.2
Chemical. lent. Phsarmaceuticals           9    11.9  20.6   21    44.5  31.6   29    29.1  13.3   90    48.7  13.2   45    47.9  13.3   62    46.9  10.6   26                       25.0   8.4   282         254.0  13.5
Metals and engineering                     6      6.5  11.3   11        9.9   7.0   33    25.2  11.5   91    38.8  10.5   92    38.8  10.6   64                39.7   8.9   57    43.2  14.6   354            202.1  10.7
Other                                      I      1.0   1.7    5        9.1   6.5   13    23.3  10.7   66    48.2  13.0   49    41.1  11.5   45    48.5  10.9   20                   16.0   5.4   199         187.2   9.9
Subtotal                      41    47.8  82.7   78   111.3  79.0  146   137.6  63.0  357   209.2  56.5  280   198.6  55.3  287   236.4  51.5  174    162.8  54.9 1.363    1,103.7  58.5
Other Sectors
Agriculture end livestock                  2      1.7   2.9    9        5.8   4.1   33    29.8  13.7   71    55.4  13.0   47    38.4  10.7   32                30.5   6.9   26       26.1   8.8   240         187.7   9.9
Touries                                    1      0.3   0.5.         .      . .-  -    2      2.6   1.2    2        4.1   1.1      2      6.5    1.8    7       6.3    1.5     2      3.8   1.3       16       23.8    1.3
Other (transp.. constmuction. etc.)   5           8.0  13.9   19    24.0  16.9   33    48.3  22.1  109   101.8  27.4  139   115.4  32.2  247    171.0  40.1  142    10k.0  35.0   694                         572.5  30.3
Subtotal             8     10.0  1~~~7.327982.    68    80.7370  182                       1613  435  188    160.3  44.7  36           206.0  48.5  170    133.9  45.1   950            784.0  4.
Total                         49    57.8 100.0  106   141.1 100.0  214   218.3 100.0  539   370.5 100.0  468   '51.9 100.0  593   444.4 100.0  344   296.7 100.0 2,313    1,887.7 100.0
III. By Duration
Up to           1 year                      34    39.2  67.8   63    85.1  60.3  145   125.3  57.4  473   260.9  70.4  420   277.1  77.2  554   382.6  86.1  312   227.1  76.5 2,001    1,397.3  74.0
1 year  up to 2 years                        7      8.8  15.2    9        8.5   6.0   24    24.8  11.4   25    26.4   7.1   32    41.0  11.6   32                29.1   6.6   14        17.9   6.0    14#3      156.5   8.3
2 years up to 5 years                        8      9.8  17.0   22    27.1  19.2   33    42.9  19.7   36             76.1  20.5      9    16.0   4.5       5     19.5   4.4       7    13.8   4.7    120         205.2  10.9
Ahoy.           5 years                      -       -     -      12    20.4  14.5   12    23.3  11.5    5            7.1   2.0      7    26.8   6.9       2      13.2   2.9   11    37.9-  12.8    49           128.7   6.8
Total                         49    57.8 100.0  106    141.1 100.0  214   218.3 100.0  539   370.3 100.0  468   338.9 100.0  593   444.4 100.0  344   296.7 100.0 2,313    1,887.7 100.0
IV. By location
Guayas                                      18    26.6  46.1   53    80.3  56.9  103   130.8  59.9  369   227.2  61.3  296    197.3  55.0  364   218.3  49.2  226    137.4  46.3 1,429    [.018.1  53.9
Pichin.ha                                   21    20.9  36.2   38    47.2  33.5   84    61.1  28.0  143   119.8  32.3  152   123.6  34.4  207    194.8  43.8  Ill   148.7  50.1   756                            716.1  38.0
AXuaY                                        4      4.0   6.9    3        5.4   3.8      7      8.5   3.9    6        3.5   0.9       1      1.8   0.5      2      1.7   0.4      2      3.7    1.3      27       28.6    1.5
Lot Rios  c-                                                      -         -    -       6      4.9   2.3    3        1.9   0.5    4       16.6   4.6       2     13.2   2.9      1      0.6   0.2       16       37.2   2.0
Nsnefrf                                      4      4.4   7.6      6      3.5   2.5    6        5.5   2.6    8        5.0    1.4     6       6.7    1.9    4       3.8    0.9     3      5.4    1.8      37       34.3    1.8
El Oro                                       1      1.0   1.7      1      1.2   0.8    6        5.7   2.5    7        9.7   2.6      6     10.6    3.0      2      2.5   0.6…         …      … …-  -    23        30.7    1.6
Esmeraldas.3                                                                                                                                 2.3   0.6   11        9.4    2.1             --    --       14       11.7   0.6
Cerchi-1   -                                                                                                                                               -       -       -0.9   0.3                     1        0.9    --
lodaburs .--                                               -       3      3.5   2.5      2      1.8   0.8   --        --             ..                                                           -       5         5.3   0.3
Cotupaai                                      1   0.9  1.5 -               -      -               -             1   1.3  0.3-1   0.5  0.1-3                                                                         2.7  0.2
Tung.rahus--                                         -       -1                                                       0.4   0.1   -.1                                                                               0.4    -
past&A -a…-1                                                                                                          1.7   0.6   -.1                                                                               1.7   0.1
Total                          49    5 7.8 10-0.0  106    14 1.1 100.0  214   218.3 100.0  539   370.5 100468   358.9 100.0  593   444.4 100.034                          29.1002,3              1877100
V.  By Type of Proiect
Me.~ projects                                6      6.4  11.1    7         5.1   3.6    8       16.8   7.7      5    11 4   3.1       5    28.9    8.1      2     18 1   4.1    2         5.6    1.9     35        92.3   4.9
Expansion and modernization                 43    51.4  88.9   99   136.0  96.4  206   201.5  92.3  534    359.1  96.9  463   330.0  91.9  591   426.3  95.9  342   291.1  98.1 2,278   1,795.4  95.1
Total                          49    57.8 100.0  106    141.1 100.0  214   218.3 100.0  539   370.5 100.0  468   358.9 100.0  593   444.4 100.0  344   296.7 100.0 2,313    1,887.7 100.0
VI,  End Use
Flood ......                                 13    15.8  27.4   30    59.9  42.5   92    115.7  53.0   98    138.0  37.3   92    146.4  40.7  103    139.6  31.4   52   104.8  35.3   480                         720.2  38.1
Ilorkiog capltal                             36    42.0  72.6   76    83.2  57.5  122   102.6  47.0  441   232.5  62.7  376   212.5  59.3  490    304.8  68.4  292    191.9  64.7 1,833    1,167.5  61.9
Total                          49     57.8 100.0  106    141.1 100.0  214   218.3 10C.0  539   370.5 100.0  468    358.9 100.0  593   444.4 100.0  344   296.7 100.0 2,313   1,887.7 100.0
I/  ?s-lcdi's  gr.-I cos, letters of credit and acceptooces.






ANNEX 8
Page 1
ECUADCRi - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S. A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
Portfolio Review as of September 30, 1972
(Methodology)
1.        One of the principal tasks of the November 1972 appraisal mission
to COFIEC, was to make its own independent assessment of the quality of COFMCIs
portfolio. In order to make this assessment as comprehensive as possible, a
review was made of CCFIEC s operations with 69 firms in which COFIEC had a
total exposure of S/398.1 million (time constraint prevented reviewing more
firms). The review covered the following categories:
a) 100% of loans considered as anticipated loss and 92% of
loans considered as doubtful, by prior reviews of COFIEC's
portfolio carried out by CCFIEC's Executive Committee, and
Price Waterhouse & Co.;
b) 96% of loans in arrears;
c)  65% of total portfolio, including 72% of loan portfolio, 64)
of equity portfolio, 587% of guarantee portfolio;
d) all firms in which COFIEC had a total exposure of its own
equity of 6% or greater.
2.        In addition, convenient categories were established for assessing
the aggregate risk being run by COFISC's exposure in individual companies.
These categories were the following:
a) expected loss - probability of recovery nil;
b) doubtful reeovery - company in serious situation and probabi-
lity of repayment very uncertain, or for which the quality
of the guarantee is dubious;
c) sub-standard - company has temporary structural problems,
or for which situation is unclear because of lack of
information in files;
e) satisfactory - company is in sound condition, and no
problems are foreseen.



ECUATORIA2I  DE DESARROLL0 S .A. (CM8PANLA FIOAICTERA)
Portfolio  r,e   so   etne   0  17 2
G,oayaq.il (C)                                                    & Letter-  f       Eq.ity           Tot.1             E.pettod      Dnbtf.1
Q,itS.  9Q        Arrears         Loans                   ...ones    Credit        Investments       E.pos.re             L.... .lcvr                 Sob-St0andr       ateet
1.  A ...   de1al.Eno-do                                                 Q                            2 550,0                                                             2,550.0                                                             2,550.0
2.  AgtloaPlatationas Ttopi..len                                         G                           10,000.0                                                             10,000.0                                          10,000.0
3. A~t-a                                                                 Q                            1,924.5           1,237.5           2,849.4                         6,011.4                                                             6,011.4
4.  C.AQ1Ceeoo0                                                                                        2,516.6          1,800.0                                           4,316.6                                                             4,316.6
5  . Cetera  Mnbt.Q                                                                    288.1            521.0                                                               809.1                                             809.1
6.  Car.o, KactIl.                                                       Q3             199. 1           161.:5                                                              360.6           360.6
7.  iCe"-J.i La Vi.toria                                                 Q3                             364.0           3,050.0           1,704.0                         5,118.0                                                             5,118.0
8.  Chr'a  p Madta                                                       0              024.1          4,566.6         17,458.0                                           22,198.7                                          22,198.7
9. aAgritola de Rflatort.tino                                        G                            1.930,0                                                             1,930.0                                            1,930.0
10.  Cia. E-utoia d . Pevieseto  (.PA)                                    Q                            1,020.0           4,500.0                                           5,520.0                                            5,520.0
ii.  CILCA(C,mi  a ld..triae del Litor-I)                                 G              250 .0                                                                              200.0            250.0
12.  COBrrEX                                                              Q                            4,638.1           2,000.0                                           6,658.1                                            6,638.1
13.  CODESA                                                              Q3                            7.500,0                             4,875.9                        12,375.9                                                            12,375.9
14.  C-oia1 GISIATIA                                                      a                                              4,546.7                                           4,54,6.7                                           4,546.7
is.  CIUIESI                                                              0              469.0                                                                               469.0                            469.0-
16.  Coaet",foion Pe~rrom   - GA.LARZA                                    G                                              5,500.0                                           5,500.0                                            5,500.0
17.  Cocett.trontr  Ilaciorl C. A. (COKACA)                               G                                              7,125.0                                           7.125,0                                            7,125. 0
08   Cordl.ria Nalonoai                                                   G                                35.6                                                                35.8                                                               35.6
19,: C T615A                                                              Q                                              5,050.0                                           5.050,0                                            5,050.0
20    - 0OGW  0. A.                                                       G                            2,294.2           1,036.0                                           3,330.2                                                             3.330,2
25.:  1~ -'Oll AUeopnaooio                                                031,200.0                                                                        2,261.3         3,461.3                                            3,441.3
22.  Ec-sdor Feed p Pe..                                                  0                            3,710,5           5,000.0                                           8,710.5                                                             8,710.5
23.  U..t-oi-a  d. Avieclee                                               Q              217.5         4,612.5           1,153.1                                           5,983.1                                            5.983,1
24.  Enuut.riam   de Art.faotto  (ECASA)                                  Q3                           7,000.0           5,843.8           2,503.9         5,834.7        21,182.4                                                            21,182.4
25.  Eaot Qirole-Almoe                                                    0                                              3,300.                                            3500.3,00
26.  F.6. Aete.tt.a 4. tevaece (760886)1                                  C                              500.           10,332.0             129.4                        10,961.4                                                            10,961.4
27. Feb. d. Cigarrille. 1l Prog...o                                       Q                            3,000.0           2,000.0                                           5,000.0                                                              ,0.
28. Fabrilamma                                                            0                            1,500,0                                                             S,5800                                                              1,500.0
29   Frtilia.tre  jeoeterleeo  (FEZTISA)                               G              625.0         9,3705.0          4,300.0                                          1450.                                               4,0.
30.  Pi,ee   Seo-ie,                                                      C                            1,550.0             981.3           1.484,7          300.0          4,516.0                                            4,518.0
31.  Ce"apeil BttChes                                                     C                                              3,750.0                                           3,750.0                                                             3,730.0
32.  H-eeipree  Precor                                                    G                            7,313.3           1,250.0                                           8,363.3                                            8,563.3
33.  RatoS Colr 0_3                                                                                                                                         602.5            602.35                                                              602.5
34.  2310  (Iaaebed.. la Reiol) e India                                  Q3                                              1,875,0                                            1.875,0                                                            1.875,0
35.  "WA0 (Iogeciaro.  aeioeules Corsetrt.eoree A.-0.)                   Q3                           1,060.0           3.330,0                                           4.370,0                                                             4,370.0
36.  I,,do.t'ia Alc.la                                                    03                           1,348.8             425.0                                           1.773,8            800.0            973.8
37.  ludoatria Imb liaria                                                 C            1,614.7                                                                             1,614.7          1,614. 7
38.  IndIWtCLm Jabinera (1.35)I/                                          G                                              4,733.8           1.760,0                         6,495.8                                                             6,495.8
39.  led. Te.eplu.tloa Eooe-tolna (NEYPIZ)                                Q3                           5,600.0                             1,502.4                         3,102.4                                                             3,102.4
40,  lrsdseteiu  Mae                                                      (5                            5,500.0          5,300.0                                           7,080.0                                                             7,000.0
41.  lad         art.i . Mratllee (0115)I/                                C                              832.6           3.763,1           2,329.7                         6,925.4                                                             6,925.4
42.  lag. W,I: lcRsie1                                                    Q3           1,099,1                                                                             1.009,1                                            1,009.1
43.  leg. Wei Vmwdbsg                                                     03             746.5                                                                                746.ZV                                                             74".0
44.  L. Irst.rsanien                                                      03                          24.950,3             5750                                           25,523.3                                                            23,525.3
65.  La PartegG.ee                                                        C                                                900:.0          4,373.6                         5,273.6                                                             3,273.6
46.  L. Re fens Oreep (Fab. de  apul,lit. . i.p.)                         G                           14,110.0             246.2           6,247.5                        20,603.7                                                            30,603.7
47.  Lebere  Aereas                                                       0                            2,358.1                                                             2,358.1                                            2.338,1
48. Mone"Ie I Dis.tib,,idir  6 Kedelr.d                                   0              500.0                                                                               500.0            500.0
49.  Matadac  y Frlgeriffte d. GOneapail (11I7056)                        GI           5,487.5                                                                             5,487.5                           5,467.5
30.  Mennailtiec                                                          03                                             8,187.3                                           8.187,5                                            8,187.5
51.  01e..c GtoeP (Jam&aned oleire)                                       G                                              5,495.0                                           5,495.0                                            5,495.0
52.  Phidapgeee                                                           0                               889.1          6,073.6                                           6,962.7                                                             6,962.7
533   Plastee0.  Q.                                                                                     3,400.7          6,903.5                                           10,304.2                                                           10,308.2
54,  Pondice 31 l.oal (Cecil 10)                                          C               71.3                             966.6                                            1,037.9                                           1.037,9
55.  PVaieco A. ftrez                                                     Q                             1,000.0          3,750.0                                           4,750.0                                            4,750.0
56.  Pre.oeio.u  Delta Set.                                               Q3                              408.5          6,165.6'                                          6,574.1                                            6,576.1
57.  ftoeplda4del , Ma,                                                   0            3,802.5                                                   .250.0                     4,052.5           230.0          3,802.5.
58.  S,eI Libetsa                                                         03                                               300.0                                              300.0                                                              500.8
59.  SEPI                                                                 0              119.3                                                                               5119.3                                                              119.3
60.  Saergi. P.ce                                                         C                             1,324.0          4,,OD6.3                                          s3.330:                                            5,330,3
61.  sertiomiae  rwea (ECUASTOL)                                          03140.9                                        4,625.0                                            4,774.9                                           4,774.9
62.  SINIOTIL                                                             036,100.0                                      2,125.0                                            8,225.0                                                            8,125.0
63.  S" ioead Agricla. SLa-                                               C              578.1            675.0                                                             1,253.1                                           1,253.1
64.  Soceidad Agrlrela y Can."..r An~gulic. S. A.                         C                             2,031,3           1,977.3                                           4,008.6                                                            4,001.6
65.  5eeled.4 Scusaterkaes  di Ccr6,b  (0300)                             C            7,833.9          9,347.5            469.0                             400.0         18,030.4         11,000.4                          7,000.0
64,  leleoicar  Baaiecal                                                  Q3             591.0          2,606.9             375.0                                           3,573.0                                           3,573.0
67.  Teet lia pstiersale.                                                 Q                             5,000.0                                                             3,000.0                                                            5,000.0
68. T,erl.o Awra.                                                         a            2,575.5                                                                              2,573.3          2,575.5
69.  Vic,mms Cie. Ltda.                                                   Q3                            3,000.0           3.175,0                                           6,173.0                                           6,175,0
TOTrAL Goeyaqinl                            .23.9_81.6       69.132,3         '88je1.9           16,324.9         1,150.0       199.l00.7         16,240.6         9.759,0         101.554.1        71,847.0
TOTA  Qeefta                                  3.260,7        9432.             79,146.0          13,435.6         8,698.5       198,864.6          51410,6           973,8   -      62.595,2       134,5.35.0
GPAND0 TOTAL.                         27.242,3        1665.             16L5.             29.760,.    ~       4,5398.06,                     7.0,             0.3,          12683             0..
iPert of Vill-uca Or-p,  L. in  bh COPIEC hs,   total empe-t of S/24,382,600
IRapeld 11/13/72
sCpm
April ?. 1973



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
ECUATORIAM DE DESARROLLO S,A, (COMPANLA FINANCICRA)
Ba1anCOM as F   Or Ji   30. 1972
(in S/ thousand)
Earnings  (loss)         Dividends
Number                                                                          Der Share                 Received
%      of Shares      Par Value         Total Held               Estimated Value        Current    PriOr         over Past
CO O nT                                      Owned    He 1d                         Pa  ; tr Value    C-Ost      AmPUnt    BasiS        ( UCe)  SCeS              2  Ot
Owe      ied            RMM%          fryJj           gg                      Bai          ea           3L          12 Months
(mucros)                                                         (sucres) (sucr*s)
A.    Codmaes O0erating Profitably
Cer&mLca Aedia                                 8.1      16,250             50          812.5      812.5             864.3   (2)            5.8         1.8            --
D..rro)o A110        rio                        7.4      3,375      -      70        2,261.3   2,261.3            2,135.6   (2)          (19.3)       12.4            --
Ecuatori   ds ArtefdCtoS S.A.                  14.9      5,968            500        2,984.0   5,834.7            5,834.7   (4)          116.6       109.2         586.5
Hetl Col6n Internacional S.A.                              75          5,000                                                            740.4    1,033.6
1.5         75            500          412.5     602.5              713.6   (1)           74.0       103.4          44.9
Dolsa do ValorJs do Quito C.A.                 2.0         500            100           50.0       50.0              54.3   (2)            8.4         0.7            --
Aluac*nera del Ecuador S.A.                    20.7     17,000            100        1,700.0   1,700.0            1,687.6   (2)           15.2        (1.2)           --
Cr6ditos Wercanties,                           0.7         700            100           70.0       70.0              97.9   (2)           (0.4)        2.2            --
SoC. As. a In. San CarloS                     0.2         936            500          468.0     499.2              727.6   (3)           56.6        54.6          37.7
Banco de GbaauqUil                              1.6     18,974            100        1,897.4   1,897.4            2,026.0   (2)            2.3         3.3            --
AhMECA                                        25.0       4,000            100          400.0      400.0             400.0    -             --          --             --
Fincom Servicio                               25.0         500          1,000          500.0      500.0             518.0   (2)          154.5        57.0            --
Total                                                              11,555.7  14,627.6           15,059.6                                          669.1
B.    Ca Dnies under Construction or in
Prq-OD<ratinU  Stage ggt in Technical          --         --              --           --         --                 --       -            _--                        -
Or *1a nC1a1 Difficulties
C     COmanies Operatins at a Loss or in
TeC,mical or Fiancial DiffiCulties
Propiedades-al Her C.A.                       25.0         250          1,000          250.0      250.0             193.3   (3)         (111.0)        --             --
Bolsa de Valores de Guayaquil                   2.0        500            100           50.0       50.0              50.0   (1)           (2.7)      (18.0)           --
Total                                                                 300.0      300.0             243.3
D.    Companies in Liquidation
Sociedad Ecuatoriana de Carbon C.A.            5.0          40         10,000          400.0      400.0               *       -            --           --            --
Total                                                                 400.0      400.0
TOTAL INVESTMENTS HEL                                                               12,255.7  15,327.6            15,302.9                                          669.1
Basis of Estimated Value:  1.  Stock market quotation.
2.  Book value based on current year's financial statements.
3.  Book value based on prior year's financial statements.                                                                                      B
4.  At cost.
* Firm has a negative net worth.
During the first semester of 1972, shares of La Interracional S.A. were sold at a profit
of S/55,593 and share, of Te Zulay Sq?..B  aL 2 profit  t' S'115s,000.



ANNEX 10
EaJADOR - APPRAISAL OF TIE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
ECUATORIM41 DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COIPAIIIA FINANICERA)
Audited Balance Sheets a, of December 31. 1966-71 and June 30. 1972 (Unaudited)
(ia SI thousand)
Dec. 31. 1966  Dec. 31, 1967  Dec. 31. I ld  Dec. 31. 199  Dec. 31, 1970  Dec. 31, 1971  June3011972
(Audited)       (Audited)        (Audit  )       (4udited)        (Audited)       (Audited)       (Unaudited)
ASSETS
Current  na-; 3
Cash P- -   s deposits                         1,918           9,480            8,387           23,487          26,586           18,795          23,913
Securi' Al1,724                                                   -             1,480              -               780            5,751           3,341
Intere-  .d other receivables                    212            1,940           5,868           5,888           12,857           15,589          16, 177
Letter'  , credit                                -            18.421           16.743           34.197          40.576           37.723          2W,.715
i-acrent Assets (less loans
d   .rithin 12 months)                   3.854           29,841          32.478           63.572          80.799           77,858           75,146
Po!r'fol
Loa,cs - d   .:thin 12 months                 12,267          34,750          128,935         101,951          125,403         123,843          109,853
- due  fter 12 months                  14,752          48,738           78,228           74,438          71,354           77,649         110,254
Dliscovnt portfolio with BCE               -               -                -               -             6,347              775            1
Total Loan Portfolio                       27,019          83,488          207,163         176,389          203,104         202,267          221.907
q nity Investments                             1,153           2,895            6.325           8,651           17,238           18.048          15,28
Total Portfolio                            28,172          86,383          213,488         185,040          220,342         220,315          237,235
(Less provision for losses)                  -             (1.000)         (1.721)          (3.200)          (5.000)        (15.000)
28,172          85,383          211,767         181,840          215,342         205,315          220,435
Fixed Assets (net)                               442            1,786           6,315            7,695           8,705           8,322            8, 264
othier Assets (net)                            1,354           1,540            1,587           1.894            3.843            3,843         _2433
TOTAL                                     33,822          118,550         252,147          265,001         308,689          295.338          306,25
I i ABlLI rl ES
Current Liabiiities
Letters of credit                                44'.         18,421           16,743          34,197           40,576          37,723           29,715
Loam' payable to foreign banks                 8,015          15,292           75,647          31,855           22,6672/        15,1iS            4,190
Current portione of long-term debt               -               -                -                             13,028          20,162           27,188
:;OLtas ecel -able discounted                    516           2,653           13,637           2 580            6,347             775            1,800
i -yable                              -               -              1,1041/         4,973_/          1,631-!/        1,498-5/         1,784.1
Cther short-term liabilities                     -                -             6,777          18,099           35,428          33,970           39,749
Deferred earnings                              2.674           3,691           14,510          10,940            9J696           7,675            7,462
Total Current Liabilities                 11,653           40,057         128,418          102,644         129,373          116,992         113,889
Medium- anLd Long-term Debts
AID loan                                       2,553          40,788           62,818          60,297          68,252           63,555
EXIMBANK loan                                    -                -               -            14,395           19,679          22,670        ( 30,i54i
IBRD livesto4,4; loans                                                         9,437           12,022          18,443           18,852
Bonds                                            -               -                -               -                -             3.710J
Total Medium- and Long-term Debts          2,553           40,788          72,255           86,714         106,374          108,787         119,290
E qui tv
Paid-in share capital                         19,616          36,000          45,000           57,099          64,000           65,431          65,43]
legal resetvo                                    -                 16             315           1,079            2,149           2,819            3,615
Undisbursed nrofits                              -             1.689            6,159           7.465            6,793           1,309            6,05,
oe] Worth                                 19,616           37,705          51,474          65,643           72,942          69,559           75,1t].
33,822         118,550         252,147          255,001         308,689          295,338         306,280
jnarantees ,  s-cres                             -              9,580           9,320            2,147           3,500            7,117             854
..rrentees   *.a.2ign exchange                 11,418          33,241           4,159          172,866         298,251          239,090         254,314
I,  Appears es  pecial reserve on COFIEC's balance sheet; was actually paid as a stock dividend in August 1969.
2'  Appears es a special reserve on COFIEC's bualance sheet; includes S/1,104,231 from 1967 earnings and S/3,868,335 from 1968 earning.
3' Itncluding S/3,214,944 equivalent in overdrafts due to foreign banks.
4 ;Appears as special reserve on COFIEC's balance shba._.; is net of stock dividend of S/3,805,700 paid in March 1970 end includes increases
of S/464, E8 from 1970 earnings.
A Appears as a special reserve on COFIEC's balance sheet; in means of segregating earnings for future distribution.
61 Breakdown no- avAilable.
1 ZPD6
ApriI 1



v-JADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESAARROLO S.A. (COKPANIA FINANCIERA)
Audited Statments of incom. and ExD n2se for the Years Endiu* Decaeber 31. 1966-71
and for the Six Months Ending June 30. 1972 (unaudited)
(In S/ thousand)
1966             1967             1968             1969             1970              1971         June 30. 1972
(audited)        (audited)        (audited)        (audited)        (audited)         (audited)        (unaudited)
INCQKE
Interest on loans                                    1,104            5,161           14,149           19,327            15,660            25,347          10,873
Fees and cooissions                                    569            2,492            5,142            9,126            11,002            13,248           6,984
Gain on sales of securities (not)                                          2             206                16              207               492              242
Dividends and interest on securities                   236              150              222               165              477             1,490            1,372
Other                                                    7                 3               2                82              198               117              150
Gross Income                                    1.916            7.808           19.721           28.716           27.543             40.694          19.621
OPERATING EXPENSES
Financial expenses                                     211              918            5,J24             9,277            5,839            10,523            5,666
Salaries, fees and fringe benefits                   1,343            2,612            3,962            5,097             5,660             6,914            3,220
Depreciation and amortization                         _                 200              250               366              485                500             255
Administrative and other                               345            1,090            2,141             2,885            3,216             4,040            2,168
Taxes, other than income                               -               -                -                  390              813             1.053              457
Total operating expenses                        1.899            4,820           12.077           18.015           16,013             23.030          11.766
Operating Income                                     17            2,988            7,644           10,701            11,530            17,644            7,8S5
Provision for doubtful accounts                       -               1,000              721             1,480            1,800            10,1454/          1,800
Provision for income taxes/                           -                -                -                  446            1,074              3,803            -
Compulsory profit sharing for employees-                  1              299              764            1.310            1 92.407
NET INCOKE                                         16            1        689     6.159            7.465             6.696             1.309           6.055
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME
Legal reserve                                           16               299              764            1,070              670                797            -
Special rl7erve                                       -               1,105             3,868              464             (134)               287            _
Dividendsz'                                           -                 -               1,099            5,710            6,091               -               -
Unappropriated surplus                                _                  285             -                  97             -                  _              6,055
Tax Credit for 1970                                   -                 -                -                -                 (125)             -               -
Executive bonus                                       -                _                  428              123              292                226
TOTAL                                               16            1.689            6.159             7 465            6.696             1.309            6.55
1/ Adjusted each year to reflect appropriations made at the ensuing Shareholders' Meeting.
2/ The company enjoyed full exemption from income taxes until January 1969.
3/ Appropriations for dividends shown for 1967 and 1968 were made as a special reserve, payments. In the form of stock dividends, were- made  r August 1969   _
(for 1967) and in March 1970 (for 1968).
4/ of which S/3,262 was charged as an expense for the year and thus was iot taxahle as  lncome.
LCPDF
April 9   e



AN=  12
XCUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SEOOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
SCUATORIANA DE DLSRROiLO S.A. (OMPANI   INANCIERA)
Projected Industrial Operations 1972-1976,, comapared with 1 971
(in SI million)
1971    1972    1973      1974     1975      1976
(Actual) -             -   -   -
APPROVALS
Loans:
Short-teru-2/               400.6   440.0   475.0    504.0    526.o    548.0
Medium- and long-ter i /     82.4   200.0   20j.0    251.0    302.0    371.0
Equity investments              -        -       4.7       5.0      5.0       5.0
Total Approvals             483.0   640.0   682.7    760.0    833.0    924.0
COMMITMENTS
Loans:
Short-term_/                394.5   425.0   452.0    479.0    500.0    524.0
Medium- and long-term1/      58.8   16o.o   182.0    226.0    272.0    334.0
Equity investments              -        -       4.7       5.0      5.0       5.o
Total Comnmitments          453.3   585.0   638.7    710.0    777.0    860.0
DISBURSEMENTS
Loans:
Short-termn/                386.8   405.0   430.0    455.0    475.0    495.0
Medium- and long-termu_/     57.6   115,0   164.0    204.0    245.0    301.0
Equity investments              -        -       4.7       5.o      5.0       5.0
Total Disbursements         444.4   520.0   598.7    664.0    725.o   8M1ix
Guarantees                    295.4   440.0   420.0    405.0    400.0    400.0
Letters of credit and
acceptances                  47.6    85.0    90.0      95.0    100.0    100.0
1/ Includes guarantees.
LCPDF
Anril 9. 1973



ANNMUI 
ECUAOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
CUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (CONPANIA FINANCIERA)
*     Projected  gain Foreign Exc       Rources
over the Period 1972-1976
(IN 3/mifliomk)
(Calendar Year)              1972     1        1974     1975     1976
FuiiZi ulioonitt-d   - -- - -          1/
at begiuimg of the period      100.2     11.5     ---       ___      ---
FunAs obtained for cooi taeats
during the period
Loan Repayment              22.6     19.9     23.1      27.4     18.8
Foreign Comm. Banks         12.5    15.0    17.5    20.0    22.5
EXIMBANM                    22.0    12.5       12.5     12.5     12.5
Total funds available for
comitments duriig the
period                       157.3    58.9    53.1        59.9     53.8
Projected commitents iduring
the perio _                    145.8   170.0    210.0    260.0    312.5
Use of funds available for
commitments du-rimg the
period
EXIMBANK                    15.2     19.5    12.5       12.5     12.5
IBRD  Industrial Loan      100.0        O---                      ---
Fbreign Comm. Banks         12.5    15.0    17.5        20.0     22.5
Loaa Repayment              18.1     24.4     23.1      27.4     18.8
145.8     58.9    53.1      59.9    53.8
Funds uncommitted-
at end of period                11.5
Gap in foreign exchange resources   ---    111.1    156.9   200.1    258.7
1/  S1100.0 xillion from tWe World Bank and S/0.2 million from the EXIMBANK.
LCPDF
April 9, 1973



ANIEZ 14
ziuADDR - APPRAIaAL OF THE SECOND FINMGIIRA PROJECT
EXUAMRIALA DE DESARROLLO S.A.  (CONPANIA FINkNCIMRA)
Projected Balanoe Sheets 1972-76, coqpared with 1971
(in S/ million)
(Calendar Year)                                1971          1972        1973          1974         1975         1976
(actu-al)
ASSETS
'ilrrent assetsa
Cash and bank deposits including
marketable secuities                       24.6          61.3        63.6         58.5          44.2         44.0
Interest and other receiwables               15.6           15.0        16.5         18.1         19.9         21 .6
Letters of credit                            37.7           35.0        37.5         40.0         42.5         45.0
Current portion of the loan portfolio    123.8            116.3       132.5        147.4         152.9        157.5
Other current assets                          3.4            3.9         4.5          5.1          5.8          6.6
Total current assets                   205.1         231.5       254.6        269.1        265.3        274.7
Portfolio:
Medium and long-term loans                   77.7          152.9       250.3        377.9        547.7        769.0
Equity investments                           18.0           15.3        20.0         25.0         30.0         35.0
Total portfolio                         95.7         168.2       270.3        402.9        577.7        804.0
Less:
Provision for losses                         (15.0)        (19.0)      (14.0)       (11.0)       (13.0)       ('5.0)
Net portfolio                           80.7         149.2       256.3        391.9        564.7        786.0
Fixed assets (net)                               8.3           8.0         7.7         19.6         19.3         18.9
Other assets                                     1.2           0.6         0.4          0.2          0.2          0.2
TOTAL AS5STS                           295.3         389.3       519.0        680.8         849.5      C79.8
-             -=            -          -              -            e
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable                             34.0           37.4        41.1         45.2         49.3         54.2
Notes payable to banks                       15.2           12.5        15.0         17.5         20.0         22.5
Letters of credit                            37.7           35.0        37.5         40.0         42.5         45.0
Current portion of long-term debt            21.3          36.6        39.8         45.4          51.2         57.0
Other current liabilities                      0A8           1.1         1.4          1.7          2,1          2.5
Total current liabilities              109.0         122.6       134.8        149.8        165.1        181.2
Deferred earnings                                7.7           8.4         9.2         10.1         11.1         12.2
Long-term debts:
AID loan                                     63.6          58.9        54.2         49. ,         44.8         40.1
EXIMBANK loans                               22.7          24.8        20.9         18.7         17.5          16.8
IBRD livestock loans                         18.8          23.6        28.4         3o.2         37.8          42.4
IBRD industrial loans                           -          53.6       133.1        245.3        366.3         5X4.5
Bonds                                         2.5          16.7        29.4         40.6          48.2         53.9
Total long-term liabilities            107.6         177.6       266.0        387.3        514.6        697.7
&quity:
Paid-in share capital                        65.4          72.0        96.0        117.0        139.0         166.0
Legal reserve                                 2.8            4.5         6.5          8.8         11.4         14.4
Reserve for foreign exchange risk              -            1.0         1.0           1.0          1.0          1.0
Retained earnings                             2.81/         3.2         5.5           6.8          7.3          7.3
Net worth                               71.0          80.7       109.0        133,6        158.7        188.7
TOTAI. LIA.BILITIES AND EQUITY         295.3         389.3       519.0        680.8        849.5       1079.8
Guaranteas                             246.2         310.0       280.0        265.0        260.0        260.0
1/   V1.5 million of th at account has been segregated for possible future distribution by the General
Stockholderst Aase.bly.
LCPDF
April 9, 1973



ANNEX 1 5
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
ECUATOHIANA DB ESSM)LLO S.A. aOOMPANIA FIANUXBRI )
Projected Statements of Incoee and !xp)t=s 1972-76, oo.upared with 1971
vin o/ imfi aonj
(Calendar Year)                                197]           1972         1973         1974         1975         1976
(actual)
INCOME
Interest on loans                              25.3           26.6         35.8         51.7         67.8         88.5
Fees and canmdssions                           13.3           13.4         13.7         13.8         13.9         13.9
Dividends and interest on securities            2.0                        ..; 3B8                    4.6
Total Income                                 6           45.5           i          69.8         86.3        10.5
ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENE     EXPENSE
Salaries, fees and fringe benefits              6.9            7.o          7.7          8.5          9.4         10.3
Depreciation and amortization                   0.5            0.5          0.5          o.6          o.6          0.7
General, achinistrative and other               5.1            5.4          6.9          7.5          B.2          9.0
Financial expenses                             10.5           10.9         17.5         26.1         36.2         49.2
Total Expenses                                   23.0                 32.6            7         54-4         69.2
Operating income                               17.6           21.7         22.7         27.1         31.9         38.3
Provision for incme taxes                      3.8            3.3          2.9          3.5          4.1          5.0
Provision for bad loans                        10.1            4.8          2.0          4.o          6.o          8.u
Compulsory profit sharing, bonuses
and directors fees                            2.)                                                   4.8
Net Income                                               13           139          15           17.0         19.6
APPROPRIATIONS OF NET INCOMF
Legal reserve                                   0.8            1.7          2.0          2.3          2.6          3.0
Reserve for foreign exchange risk                -             1.0           -            --                        -
Dividends                                                      7.?          9.6         11.7         13.9         16.6
Unappropriated surplus                           .             .4           2.3          1            0.5           -
1.3           1.3          13.9         13           17.0         19.6
LCPDF
April 9, 1973



ANIX 1 6
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
EJUATORIANL  DE DEiARROLLO S.A. (CCIPANIA FINAN tIoA)
Projected Sources and Applicationr of Funds 1972-76
(in SI million)
(Calendar Year)                                 1972        1973        1974       1975         1976
SOURCES
Income after taxes                              10.3        13.9        15.3       17.0         19.6
Add Back: Depreciation and amortization          0.5         0.5         o.6         o.6         0.7
Cash generation                            10.8        14.4        15.9       17.6         20.3
Share capital increase:
New capital                                    6.6        16.8        11.4        10.3        13.1
Stock dividends                                 -          7.2         9.6       11.7         13.9
Long-term debts (net):
AID loan                                      (4.7)        (4.7)       (4.7)      (4.7)       (4.7)
IBRD livestock loans                           4.8         4.8         4.8        4.6          4.6
F.XIM loans                                    2.1        (3-9)        (2.2)      (1.2)       (0.7)
IBRD industrial loans                         53.6        79.5       112.2      121.0        178.2
Bonds                                         14.2        12.7        11.2        7.6          5.7
Increase in provision for losses                 4.8         2.0         4.0        6.0         8.0
Deferred earnings                                0.7         0.8         0.9        1.0          1.1
Other assets                                     o.6         0.2         0.2         -
TOTAL SOURGES                              93.5       129.8       163.3      173.9       239.5
APPLICATIONS
Long-term loans (net)                           75.2        97.4       127.6      169.8       221.3
't- investments                               (2.7)        4.7                    5.0         5.0
Dividend payments                                7.2         9.6        11.7       13.9         16.6
-ncrease in fixed and deferred assets            0.2         0.2        12.5        0.3         0.3
Decrease in provision for losses (write off)     0.8         7.0         7.0        4.0          3.0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                         80.7       118.9       163.8      193.0       246.2
Tncrease L Xorking capital (decrease)           12.8        10.9        (0.5)     (19.1)        (6.7)
April 9.  @713



ECUAD0R - ApPZUPlI    ... ( ; .
ECtUATORI.A.NA DE DE"RKIL   S. %A . {wpM, -Tr
Past and Projected   -- i       i
PastPrecd
1967   1968   1969   1 970  1971    1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
Total debt/equity 1/                         3.1    4.0   6.o   8.0   6.1         6.9    6.o    6.o    5.9    6.o
Term debt/equit;y Y/                         1.0   1.4   1.4   1.6   1.5          1.9    2.4    2.9   3.2    3.7
Book value as % of par value               107.5  110.9  104.7  104.0  105.9   112.1  113.5  114.2  114.2  113.7
Administrative expenses 7s % of
average total assets 2                     3.8    2.9   2.5   1.9   2.2         2.1    2.0    1.9    1.8    1.6
Earnings before interest, tax and
provisions as % of average total
assets 2/                                  3.8   6.3   5.7   3.3   4.9          5.2    5.4   6.1    6.6   7.1
Financial expenses as % of average
total assets 2/                            0.9   2.7   2.7   1.1    1.8         1.7    2.3    3.0    3.5    4.0
Gross spread                                 3.1    3.6   3.0   2.1   3.1         3.5   3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1
Earnings before provision and tax
as % of average net worth                 10.2  17.2  19.5  18.2  26.0    28.6  2.3.9  22.3  21.8  22.0
Net earnings as % of average
Share capital                              6.1  15.2  14.6  11.1    2.0    15.0  16.5  14.4  13.3  12.9
Equity                                     5.8  13.9  13.6  10.6   1.9    13.5  14.7  12.6  11.6  11.3
Total asgsets 2/                           1.6   2.9   2.1    1.3   0.2         1.7    1.8    1.7    1.7    1.6
Dividends as % of year-end capital           3.1    8.6  10.0    9.5    -        10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0
Dividend payout %                           65.4  62.8  76.i  91W)               70.0  69.0  76.4  81.7  84.7
1/ As defined under Loan 721 -EC.
7/ Including guarantees.
LCPDF
A -i- 1 Q t QTA



ANNEX 18
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES-CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
List of Board Members and Alternates as of September 30, 1972
Principal Directors                      Alternate Directors
1.  Mr. Jorge Mantilla Ortega
Chairman
Representative of the President
of the Republic
Publisher of newspaper "El Comercio,"
(Quito);  ex-Ambassador          1
2.  Dr. Alejandro Ponce Henriquez              Mr. Octa'to Rioca Carbc.
Vice-Chairman                             Treasurer of the Chambers of
Representative of the Chambers of         Industries of the "Costa"
!ndurtries of the "Costa"                Industrialist
Lawyer; Industrialist
3.   Dr. Nestor Vega Moreno                    Colonel Ruben Ayala
Minister of Finance                       Sab-Secretary of Finance
a.   Econ. Felipe Orellana Alban               Colonel Oliverio Vasconez
Minister of Production                    Sub-Secretary of Production
Navy Captain Oustavio Jarrin Ampudia    Mr. Ney M&n;h@oj
Minister of Natural Resources and        Sub-Secretary of Natural Resources
Tourism                                  and Tourismn
Dr. Eduardo Larrera Stacey               Econ. ermanico Espinosa
General Manager of the Central           Deputy General Manager of the
Bank of Ecuador                          Central Baik of Ecuador
Mr. Alfredo Pena Calderon
Representative of the Chambers
o  Industries of the "Sierra"
Eng. Pedro Aguayo Cubillo
President of the National Planning
Board
Dr. Francisco Rosales                    Dr. Manuel Orellana
President of the Institute of            Vice-President of the Institute
K%-oreign Trade and Integration          of Foreign Trade and Integration
- nr7sg



COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
ORGANIZATION CHART
SEPTEMBER 1972
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
| EXECUTIVE COMIAI1TTEE    |     IIDEPENDENT AUOITORS
|    3 nwmbOn)         |      |Prko Wrbwous a Co.|
SECRETARY                    GENERAL MANAGER                INTERNAL AUDITORS
|  JOs Ivurrald.                Luh Ayoo A                      S ftsI Fito
|PULIC RELATION           ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER|            LEGAL COUNSEL
|  Jorg. Don.o o  l          Ed.-do Andrad. Ch.               Adolfo VhsSpWuI
TECIO NICAL GINA CIAL SUINCIES FACPROIA LON E                                                                 T     CDMINIB RATIVE C
STANT MANABER                             ASSISTANT MANAGER    DtE PSTANT MTANAGE                                                            ISTNT MANAGE-]
Leopoldo Son                                 Crhmtbl Flo- -n                                                  Albo  KuNI  RI            F 11 7 MeO.  re 
IOUOJECT _UPERpSSONI                                                                           | LOAN COLLECTON
ADVISER ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEEA ERIE1                                                                                DEPT.
LCFTF                                                                                                                                                                   wy.rI~ 6..k - 7295(R)
April 9, 1973






ANNEX 2Ž0
Page 1
BCUA3R - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FDIANCIERA PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPOFRACION FINANCIEhA NACIONAL
Declaration of Policies and Procedures
The Board of Directors of the Corisi6n de Valores - Corporaci;6n
Financiera Nacional (the Corporation), by virtue of the powers conferred
upon it by its enabling legislation, establishes the following policies
and procedures which will guide the financial activities and investme.'L'
of the Corporation.
I.      Objectives
1)  The fundamental objective of the Corporation will be to ass` q.
in the economic development of the country by providing fin-.n-
cial assistance to productive enterprises of the private sector
and by supporting economic infrastructure projects of the
public sector. In addition, the Corporation will stimulate
the development of the capital market as an instrument for
channeling private savings into productive activities.
II.     Investment Policies
2)  The Corporation will base its investTiient Qecisions on sourhm
economic and financial criteria and will finance only
technically viable enterprises with good prospect of ec;nodic
and financial return.
3)  Although its operations will be oriented principally to the
financing of the manufacturing sector, the company may also
finance fisheries, tourism and agro-industrial projects.
In no case will the company finance commercial activities or,
real estate operations.
4)  The Corporation will finance the establishment or expaision
of enterprises when these are, or can reasonably be exoec.teri
to be, adequately organized and managed.
5) In selecting projects, the Corporation will take into accounit
the general economic development plans and policies of the
country. Consequently, priority will be given to projects
which have some of the following features: use of national
raw materials; significant use of manpower; saving of
foreign exchange through impprt substitution; production of
goods to meet national or foreign demand; participation of
a significant number of shareholders; possibilities for
training personnel in technical and management matters; or
the possibility of development of related industries.



ANNEX 20
Page 2
In harmony with the foregoing, the Corporation wdll avoid
financing enterprises which depend on excessive governmental
protection for their profitability, resulting in a negative
economic benefit for the country and consequently leading
to an uneconomic utilization of national resources.
6) When a project conforms to the technical, economic and
financial criteria for an investment by th9e Corporation and
is of particular importance for the economic development of
the country, but does not arouse sufficient intereat in the
private sector, the Corporation may undertake it, even if
it involves 100% financing by the Corporation. However, the
aim of the Corporation, as in the case of normal investments,
will be to sell its participation when the project has reached
an adequate development and when circumstances permit it to
do so on satisfactory terms.
7) In the case of projects which require large investments, the
.poration will seek financial cooperation from other entities,
whether national, international or foreign.
TII.      Type of Financing
8)  The Corporation will provide the following types of financing:
(a)  medium and long-term loans;
(b)  investrient in share capital by direct participation,
purchase options, underwritings, etc.;
(c) guarantees and avals related to the purchase of
machinery and/cr eqyiment;
(d) rediscounting of loans granted by private banks, the
National Deveiopment Bank and private financial
corporations to small industries in anunts up to
S/ 200,000; and
(e) other financial operations which are in accordance with
the objectives and policies of the ODrporation.
9) The Corporation's loans will be principally for the purchase or
construction of fixed assets. Notwithstanding, the Corporation
may also finance technical assistance and permanent working
capital and, exceptionally, seasonal working capital.
10) With its special resources for this purpose, the Corporation
shall finance pre-investnent studies of projects-of the public
or private sectors, or of those which can be carried out by
the Corporation itself.



ANNEX 20
Page 3
IV.      Diversification of Investments
11) With the purpose of maintaining a reasonable level of risk,
the Corporation will diversify its investments.
12) The Corporation normally will not grant to the same enterprise
loans for an amount greater than S/ 20 million. Ebr exceptionai
projects, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the
Corporation may grant loans for larger amounts; but in no
case will the total financing to one enterprise, in whatever
form, including loans, participation in share capital, guarantees
or avals, or a combination thereof, exceed an amount equivalent
to 15% of the Corporationts paid-in capital and free reserves.
On the other hand, the Corporation will not provide financiaL
assistance for amounts smaller than S/ 200,000 except in the
case of the rediscounts mentioned in sub-paragraph (d) of
Section 8, or in the case of pre-investment studies.
13)  The Gorporation will limit its investment in the share capitail
of a single enterprise to an amount equivalent to 10% of tne
Corporation's paid-in capital and its free reserves. The
Corporation will also limit the total amount of its investments
in the share capital of enterprises to the amount of its own
paid-in capital and free reserves.
V.      Turnover of Investments
14)  As the projects in which the Corporation holds shares reach an
adequate state of development, and with the double purpose of
freeing resources for new financing and of stimulating widespread
ownership of securities, the Corporation will sell its share-
holdings, when it can do so on satisfactory terms.  In the
sale of its investments, the Corporation will not only take
into account its own interests but also those of the other
shareholders and of the enterprises themselves.
VI.      Relations with Enterprises Financed
15) The Corporation does not intend to acquire control of the enter-
prises it finances. Consequently, the Corporation normally
will not take up more than 25% of the share capital of the
enterprise financed, except in the case of projects undertaken
by the Corporation in accordance with the stipulations of
point 6 of this Declaration, or as a result of an underwriting
undertaken with the expectation that the shares remaining for
its account will not exceed the said limit. Notwithstanding,
in cases of jeopardy, the Corporation may take whatever measures
it deems necessary to protect its interests.
16)  In accordance with usual banking practice, the Corporation will
require its borrowers to provide and to maintain adequate
security in its favor; to keep accounting records which reflect



AMNEX 20
Page 1
their financial situation in accordance ws th generally accepted
accounting principles; and to supply the Corporation with
whatever information it may reasonably require to establish the
status of their operations and financial situation. The
Corporation will take the right to irspect the entmrprises it
finances as well as their accounting records.
17) All information furnished to the Corporation by applicants or
clients will be treated by it as strictly confidential.
VII.      iY.nancial Practices
18)  The Corporation will conduct its operations in such a manner
as to assure the maintenance of the value of its capital and
of adequate liquidity. The Corporatioon will charge interest,
fees and conmissions for its financing and se~-rices in such
a way that they yield an adequate return or the capital employed.
19) The Corporation will maintain reserves in accordance with
sound financial practice. These resez-ves will be sufficient
to cover the risk of loss associazed with the size of its
portfolio and the status of the projects financed.
20)  The Corporation will maintain a reasonable level of administra-
tive expenses, consistent with the scope and volume of its
operations.
21) The Corporation considers that the total of its liabilities,
including guarantees and avals, in whatever form should maintain
an adequate relationship with its own capital and free reserves.
Consequently, the ratio of liabilities to capital and reserves
will not exceed 4:1.
VIII.    Procedures
22)  The Corporation shall maintain the following funds, each with
separate accounting and independent resources:
(a) Fund for Industrial Investments;
(b) Fund for Small Industry; and
(c)  Fund for Pre-investment.
23) In accordance with its investment policies and to protect its
resources, the Corporation, prior to any financing, shall
evaluate projects in relation to the narket, technical and
financial feasibility and the economic benefit for the
country.
24)  The Oorporation will not linit itself to evaluating projects
which are presented for its consideration. The Corporation,



ANNEX 20
Page 5
by itself or with the help of consultants when circumstances
require it, will identify, stuctd and promote industrial, agro-
industrial, fishery and tourism projects of significant
benefit for the economy of the country.
25)   Procedurally, with respect to matters involving its DLrectors,
officials and employees, the Corporation will abide by the
stipulations of Article 50 of its Enabling Law.
26)   The Corporation will maintain accounting and statistical
records which accurately reflect its operations and financial
status in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and practices. The Corporation will employ the
services of a firm of independent auditors of recognized
technical and professional competence, who will examine
annually the accounts of the Corporation and give an opinion
on the financial statements of the institution.
27)   The Corporation will maintain a balanced technical and manage-
ment organization, with kigh level personnel which will enable
it to carry out market, technical, economic and financial
evaluations of the projects it finances, as well as to follow
up its investments.
28)   As part of its follow-up operations, the Corporation, when it
deems it necessary and when personnel availability permits it,
will provide technical assistance to borrowing enterprises
through the preparation of problem identification and guidance
reports, so that these enterprises may contract the specialized
technical assistance that may be necessary.
LCPDF
April 9, 1973






AMZ.1 21
COCISsOa  DR VALcagS - CORPOUCION VIfAl&MCJA NACIOuli
Analyst* of Loan Aliorovals, fromincontion throuab June 30. 1972
(in SI  M alio)
Total as of
1963-67  ........j~~~~.§........  1969 ~~197D                             1971            June 30. 1972         Josne 30. 1972
indicators                            No    mut 7             o      it 7    N.hur 7                              ut 7           o   Amun                 . Amnount   7.    No.   Amount   5
*            B~~~y size (SI million)
*           ~~~~~up to  0.5                          31    8.       2.3     18    5.2   2.9        5     1.6   09       11    2.0   1.4         5    2.3   0.6        1    0.5   0.4       71     20.3    1.4
Over   0.5 up to  2.5                   70   663  17.7        23   31.4  17.2    32   44.7  25.8           22   30.2  20.8       37   38.0   9.3       12   12.3  10.2   196   222.9  15.9
Over    2.5 up to  4.5                  26   76.1  20.3       13   37.1  20.4        6    196  11.3        10   30.   21.3       18   32.2  12.7        6   19.5  16.1    79   235.4  16.7
Over   4.5 up to  6.5                   17   69.5  18.3        2    4.6    2.5        3   13.97   9.1       1    5.5,   3.8       5   27.1   6.6        2   10.8   8.9        30    133.2    9.5
over   6.5 up to  8.5                    5   37.6  10.0        3   15.0   8.2         1    7.6   4.4        3   20.7  14.2              -      -         1    7.3   6.0       13    88.2   6.3
Over   8.3 up to 10.5                    2   18.8    5.0       3   29.0  15.9        2   19.9  11.3         2   10.0   6.9        6   37.1    9.0        1    9.3    7.9    16   124.1   8.8
Ov-r  I0.5 or more                       7   98.1  26.2        3   60.0  32.9         3   64.0  37.0        3   46.1  31.6        8  253.2  61.8        2   61.0  50.3        26   582.4  41...
Total                        156  374.9 100.0    65  182.3 100.0    52  173.1 100.0    52  145.4 100.0    79  409.9 100.0    25  120.9 100.0   431 1,406.5 100.0
*  C         Iv~B  Economic Activity
Manufscturing Sector:
Food, beverages and tobacco          46  153.7  41.5        24   62.3  34.2       14   39.0  22.5       13   48.3  33.2        13   35.3   8.6       11   18.8  13.6   123    359.4  25.3
Textiles and clothing                 26   50.5  13.5        6   14.6   8.0        5   14.7   8.5         6   10.2   7.0       15  119.6  29.2        3   12.4  10.3        61   222.0  15.8
Paper and printing                   12   Z6.6   7.1         5   10.8   3.9        2   32.0  18.5        4    4.3   3.0         6   12.4   3.0        2   29.5  24.4        31   115.6   8.2
Chemicals and pharmaceutitals    16   33.1   8.8             4   13.4   7.3        2   'i2.3   7.1        3   13.0   8.9        1    1.6   0.4        2    3.9    3.2      28      77.3    5.5
Metals and metal working             30   £41.4  11.0        8   12.0   6.6        9   :1.1   6.4         7   12.9   8.9       17   47.2  11.5        1    3.0   2.5        72    127.6   9.1
Other                                15   25.0   6.7        12   10.3   3.8       12   34.7  20.0       10   41.6  28.6        11   46.2  11.3        3    3.3    2.7    58    161.3  11.5
Subtotal                     143 ~332.3  88.6        59  123.6  67.8    42  143.8  83.0          45  130.3  89.6       65  262.5  64.0    22   70.9  58.7   375 1,063.4  75.6
Other Sectors:
Fisheries                              1    2.0   0.5        1    2.0    1.1       9   15.0   8.7        2    2.3    1.6        6   44.2  10.8        -    -       -        19    65.5   4.7
Forestry                               1    0.2   0.1…           …      …      …      …      …       …1 -      1.1   0.8        1    2.0   0.5        2   43.0  37.2         3    48.3   3.4
Mining                                                                             1    2.7   1.6        .     -       -        1    1.2   0.3        -    -       -         2      3.9   0.3
UJtilities (electricity)                            .         2   39.2  21.5…          …      …       …      …      …       … 1   65.0  15.9          -     -      -         3   104.2    7.4
Tourism                               11   40.4  10.8        3  '17.5   9.6        3   11.6   6.7        4   11.7   8.0         5   35.0   8.5        1    3.0   4.1    27   121.2   8.6
9O1itote1                     13   42.6  11.4         6   58.7  32.2       13   29.3  17.0        7   13.1  10.4        14  147.4  36.0        3   30.0  41.3    36   343.1  24.4
Iotal                        158  374.9 1,00.0      65  182.3 100.0    52  173.1 100.0           52  143.4 100.0        79  409.9 100.0       25  120.9 100.0   431 1.406.5 100.0
SW Durt i-on
UJp to  2 years                          1    0.4   0.1        2    7.0   3.8         4    4.7    2.7       2    3.2   2.2        1    0.6    0.1        1    3.0   2.5       11     18.9    1.3
Ove    2 t{  to  5 years                43   67.1  17.9    26   42.8  23.5           14   35.7  20.6       21   48.8  33.6       25   35.0   8.5        10    11.0   9.1   139   240.4  17.1
Over   5 up t. 10 Fears                104  260.6  69.5       37  132.5  727        34  132.7  76.7        31   93.4  64.2       52  309.3  75.5    14  106.9  88.4    272 1,035.4  73.6
(50-r  10 years                          8   46.8  12.5…---                                -       -        -     -      -        1   65.0  15.9         -    -       -        9   111.6   9.0
rotal                        158  374.9 100.0    63  182.3 100.0          52  173.1 100.0        52  143.4 100.0       79  409.9 100.0    25  120.9 100.0   431 1,406.5 100.0
,Lucartion
:1 erra.
Pichi.ch.                            70  105.4  28.1    24   41.4  22.7    20   47.2  27.3              23   46.3  31.8        41  176.9  43.2       13   40.3  33.3   191   457.5  32,
A.u.y                                13   25.1   6.7         4    8.8   4.9        7    8.7   3.0        4    17.5  12.0        2    9.0    2.2       1    2.0   1.7        31     71.1   S.,
0t",er                                 9   17.3   4.6        2    5.2   2.9        1   30.1  17.3         3   11.0   7.6        4    7.6    1.9       3   42.2  34.9    22    113.4   9.1
Costa:
G.ay.o                               54  183.7  49.0        29  105.4  57.8       13   45.5  26.3    19   39.7  41.1           23  168.7  41.1        3    5.6   4.6    145   568.6  40.4
H.nabf                                 9   40.3  10.8        4     5.9   3.2      10   19.7  11.4         -    -       -        6   41.4  10.1         1    5.8   4.8       30    113.1   8.7,
Oth.r                                  3    3.1   0.8        2   15.6   8.6        1  -21.9  12.7         3   10.9   7.5        1    6.3   1.5        2   25.0  20.7        12    82.8    5.9
Total                        138  374.9 100.0        65  182.3 100.0    52  173.1 100.0          52  145.4 100.0        79  409.9 100.0       23  120.9 100.0   431 1,406.5 100.3
By End Use
Machinery and eq.ipnet                 a.a. 264.2  70.5   u.e.  86.8  47 6   -.a. 109.6  63.3   v.&.  93.3  64.3   n.e. 281.0  68.6   n.a. 100.9  93.5   s.a.  935.8  66.5
Os~ildigsgene    61.0  16.3   n.e.  22.0  12.1   n.e.  19.6  11.3   u.e.  26.6  18.2   s.. 37.7   9.2    -.e.   9.0    7.4   n...  175.9  12.5
Lher fixed assets..5                          1.1   0.3   -.a.  21.3  11.7   s.a.   9.3    5.4   n.a.   1.1   0.8   s.. 68.1  16.6   s...    1.3    1.1   s.c.   102.2   7.3
rIigc.91tal                     n.. 48.6   12.9   n-s-  52.2  28.6   n.e.   34.6  20.0   na.  24..4  16.7    .a    23.1   5.6                    --a  9.7   6.0   n.e   192.6  13.,
Total                        158  374.9 100.0    65  182.3 100.0    52  173.1 100.0    32  145.4 100.0                  79  409.9 100.0       25  120.9 100.0   431 1,406.5 100.0
LCPDP
AkPrt5 9, 1(13~



ECUADOR - APPlR-ISAI, OF 1HE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
List and Characteristics of Foreign Credit Lines - Disbursements as of June 30, 1972
(in US$ thousand)
Institution   Total    Amount        To be                        Term       Grace      Interest   Commission  Amount         Balance
Date     or Country    Amount   Disbursed   Disbursed   Jestination    Years           Period        y.           x        Amortized   OutstandinR
Utilized
AID 518-L-014                     7/20/62        AID         4,650      4,650          -        Industry         40       9-1/2          3/4          -            -           4,650
IDB 133/SF-EC                     7/11/67        IDB         2,500      2,500          -        Industry         15        3-1/2      3-1/4          3/4          313          2,187
IDB 143/OC-EC                     7/11/67        IDB         2,500      2,500          -       Industry          15       3-1/2       6-1/2      1 on undis-    313            2,187
bursed part
In utilization
Swiss Bank consortium             6/ 8/67   Switzerland    2,578          367        2,211      Industry         10        1-1/2      6-3/4           _           112            255
IBRD 555-EC                       9/ 5/68        IBRD        3,710         69        3,641     Ship-const.       20       6           6-1/4      3/4 on undis-   -             3,710
bursed part
IBRD 721-EC                       2/ 5/71        IBRD        4,000      1,012        2,988      Industry         17        1           7-1/4         3/4           -           4,000
Kreditanstalt                    10/ 9/69   Germany          2,577      2,563           14      Industry         20        5           5-1/2     3/8 on undis-   -             2,563
bursed part
IDB 188/OC-EC                     4/14/70        IDB         4,500      3,625          875      Industry         15        3          8               -            -           3,625
TDB 235/SF-EC                     4/14/70        IDB         1,500        199        1,301     Feasibility       20        5           3-1/4         3/4                         199
studies
Not utilized
Swiss Government                  8/30/69   Switzerland        232        -            232      Feasibility       5        1           4              -            -
studies and
technical
assistance
IDB 233/OC-EC                    10/24/72        IDB        10,000        -         10,000      Industry         15        3           8         1-1/4 on un-    -
disbursed
part
IDB 234/SF-EC j/                  4/14/70        IDB         1,500        -          1,500      Industry         15        3           3-1/4         3/4           -
CAF                               9/ 1/71        CAF         1,412                   1,412      Industry       5 and 10  1 and 2    6 and 8    1 on undis-         -
Kreditanstalt (KfW 878-EC)       12/15/72   Germany          3,140        -            -        Industry         30       10           6          1/4 o  undis-   -  
bursed part
1/  Loans for small industry.   Has not been disbursed due to tight procurement conditions tied to it.  Was cancelled in November 1972.
LGPDF
April 9, 1973



ANNEX 23
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Loans and Other credit Operations - Balances as of June 30, 1972
(in S/ thousand)
Amount                                  Number of           Arrears
Co-pany                                     outstanAing   Guarantees      Total     Ooprations   Principal   Interest
Companies Operating Profitably                 ___ -
Total                        420,620.1       3,905.4    424,525.5        229        6,401.4     2,963.9
B.     Companies under Construction or in
Pre-operating Stage not in Technical
or Financial Difficulties                                                                _
Total                        118,961.7      13,578.5    132,540.2          2
C.     Companies Operating at a Loss or in
Technical or Financial'Difficulties
Fertisa                                        4,112.6       3,000.0      7,112.6          1       1,954.4        203.8
Victor Miraglia                                1,307.6                                     2         344.4        133.3
Syndet Productos Quimicos                      4,907.9                                     2       2,763.2      1,056.1
Inmobiliaria Miraglia                          1,455.8                                     2         331.7        158.8
Epaca                                          4,774.8                                     2       1,465.2        866.7
Frlgorificos Ecuatorianes                      3,947.6                                     1         812.3        609.2
Fabrica Koan                                     512.8                                     1          52.9         23.3
Olyasa                                        13,169.4                                     1        1,255.2     1,169.4
Cotonia                                        3,441.7                                     1         331.0        305.3
Agustin Jimenez                                2,312.6                                     1         404.5        391.7
Desarrollo Agropecuario                        7,335.8                                     2         425.8        219.7
Foresta                                        1,755.9                                     1         229.8        255.9
Ricardo Bowen                                  1,940.9                                     1         154.8        146.2
Enrique Joniaux                                1,656.1                                     1          132.3       122.1
Bernardo Buehs                                 2,298.9                                     1         299.5        360.1
Antonio Joniaux                                1,964.4                                     1          133.1       151.2
Epromar                                        3,300.7                                     2          340.6       158.3
Octavio Panchana                                 632.4                                     1           78.6        28.6
Modulos de Arcilla                               408.3                                     1          120.7         8.3
Arenera Babahoyo                               4,335.1                                     2         444.8        435.1
Figurina                                       7,087.7                                     2         280.3        291.2
Pesquera Yulee                                 1,104.3                                     1          69.2        10423
Hotel Punta Carnero                            6,629.3                                     1         645.7        58723
Graficas Guerrero                                274.6                                     1          229.1        45.5
Industrias Alimenticias                        1,089.1                                     2         976.4        112.7
Industria Ecuatoriana de Conservas               259.2                                     1         235.3         23.9
Total                         82,015.5       3,000.0     85,015.5         35       14,511../   7,968.01/
D.     Companies in Liquidation
Industria Avicola                              1,156.0                                     1         226.7        100.0
Gonzalo Ruiz                                     917.0                                     3         782.0        135.0
Frio Industrial y Comercial                      750.1                                     2         644.5        105.6
Jose Quincha                                     665.2                                     1          561.7       103.5
La Rosa                                        4,142.1                                     1       3,399.7        742.4
Concentrados Alimenticios                      2,797.8                                     1        2,300.0       497.8
Industrial Inmobiliaria                        1,643.6                                     1        1,501.4       142.2
Pascual Alvarez                                  472.7                                     1         472.7          -
Total                         12,544.5                                    11        9,888.71/   1,826.51/
TOTAL INVESTMENTS HELD                       634,141.8      20,483.9    654,625.7        277      30,801.1    12,758.4
1/  Total arrears over three months amounted to S/20.8 million, of which S/13.5 million were in principal and
S/7.3 million in interest.  Companies in liquidation accounted for S/3.8 million of the arrears in principal
and for 5/1.7 mlllion of the arrears in interest.  Companies operating at a lose or in technical or
financial difficulties accounted for the remainder.
LCPDF
April 9, 1973



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCICRA PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Equity Investmients beld
Balances as of June 30. 1972
(in S/ thousand)
Earnings  (loss)         Dividends
Number                                                                           per Share (3)            Received
%      of Shares      Par Value          Total Held               Estimated Value       Current    Prior         over Past
Company                                      Owned    Held           per Share    Par Value       Cost          Amount    Basis        Year        Year          12 Months
(sucres)                                                         (sucres) (sucres)
Companies Operating Profitably
Hotel Colon Internacional                     15.0       3,532              500                                                           124.00   75.71
501           5,000     4,271.0   4,271.0             7,388.8   (1)        1,240.00  768.08             597.9
COFIEC                                         7.8      50,876              100     5,087.6   5,087.6             5,240.2   (1)             2.00   10.46            508.8
Desarrollo Agropecuario                       26.9      12,350              670     8,274.5   8,274.5             8,274.5                  10.21   (0.57)             --
Total                                                              17,633.1  17,633.1                                                            1,106.7
B.     Companies under Construction or in
Pre-operating Stage not in Technical
or Financial Difficulties
Corporacion Andina de Fomento (CAF)            6.0            1   US$1,000,000
100   US$  500,000    21,311.0  21,311.0            21,311.0   (2)
Ecuatoriana de Atun (ECUATUN)                 51.0     245,106              100    24,510.6  24,510.6            24,510.6   (2)             0.04
Empresa de Cemento Chimborazo                  0.9       4,497              100        449.7     449.7              449.7   (2)            12.80   11.54
Te Zulay                                      36.1          600          10,000
1,715           1,000     7,715.0   7,305.0             7,305.0   (2)
Industrial y Forestal Cayapas                  5.5          Not yet defined            750.0     750.0              750.0
Banarina                                      97.0       15,990             100    _1599.0   1 599.0              1 599.0   (2)
Total                                                              56,335.3  55,925.3            55,925.3
C.     CManies Operating at a Loss or in
Technical or Financial Difficulties
Fertilizantes Ecuatorianos S.A.
(FERTISA)                                  27.8       25,000            1,000    25,000.0  25,000.0           25,000.0   (2)
Bolsa de Valores de Quito                     40.0        9,983             100        998.3      998.3             998.3   (2)             0,25
Guayaquil                                     78.2       19,552             100      1,955.2   1,955.2            1,955.2   (2)
Total                                                               27,953.5  27,953.5           27,953.5                                          _  _
TOTAL INVESThENTS HELD                                                             101,921.9 101,511.9          104,782.3                                         1,106.7
NOTES:
(1)   Stock market quotation.
(2)   Shares not traded on the market - estimate corresponds to their nominal value.
(3)   Corresponds to fiscal years 1970 and 1971.
LCPIF
April 9, 1973



ECUAlDM - APPYAISL OF THE SECOFD FINAICIZA PROJECT
COMISION DE VAL0RES-CORPORACION F?DUCIER  NAD3ANAZ
Audited Bakj ftb g     £  of J    30, 1967-72
June 30
1967     196B     1969     1970     1971     1972
ASS
Cash and banik balances             17.1     13.5       7.0    13.2      2.'.7    50.5
Interest receivable                 19.6     18.7      25.7     28.3    ]u..o    16.0
Financing of Governments
Government bonds                  350o.     261.6   214.9   152..   202.5   161.5
Municipal bonds                    32.6    58.1    61.1        63.4     65.0    66.8
Loans                               9.2      68.5     70.1    71.8   152.6       21.9
Sub-total                3Y2.2    408.2    346.1   287.6    .20.1    250.2
Financing of Industry:
Mortgage bonds and cedulas         17.0       3.6      2.9      4.2    10.o      10.3
Medium & long-term loans          167.5    291.7    39b.0    474.1    5i9.0    68b.2
Small industry loans                6.1      15.7     17.4    14.4      15.4     24.5
Equity irlvestments                -5.3      7.0      14.5     31.9     62.4  _101.5',
Sub-total                216.2    318.0   432.6    524.6   687.6   c24.7
Provision for losses                  -        -        -       (3.2)    (7.6,    (9.6)
F'ixed assets (at cost)              6.6       7.1      7.6      b.A      9.6    11.1
Depreciation                        (3.7)    (4.3)    (4.6)    (5.0,    (5.7).   (4.9)
Prepaid expenses and other assets    0.Q    3-          4-5      3-        .3     13.74/
TOTAL ASSETS             6.9    765.1    8191    857.3  1152.6
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable                      3.5      7.5      7.6    1F.8      27.6     33.3
:4dium- and long-term loans:
Central Bank                      80.5    143.f6   i15.1    105.C    179.8      34.6
AID                               86.5     87.0    87.u       86.9   i26.3    117.L
ID3                                 -      11.6     53.9      80.4    146.~  209.3
3wiss bang consortiur               -       3.1      5.6       5.1      7.2      7.5
L-editanstalt                       -        -         -       2.6     27.9     63.6
IBhN                                -        -        -        C.1      0.4     26.2
Sub-total                167.0    245.3   261.8    297.2    L16.3   45b.5
Bonds                                -        -         -        -       80.7     75.7
Fund for infrastructure                       -         -        -       20.9     27.7
Deferred incom                      27.1     29.0    26.2        1.6      1.8      1.0
squity:
Paid-in capital                  413.61/ 443.6   463.6   481.7    500.0    500.0
Reserves for contingencies        21.7     39.7      59.9     76.82/   3°.3_/   55.0
Unappropriated surplus            16.0      -
Net worth                451.3   483.3    523.5   558.5   530.3    555.0
TOTALLIABL.ITWS& QUnTI 648.9   765.1    819.1    857.3   1152.6  1151.5
CttTIN4OT LIABfLITIES
Ouarantees                           7.4      6.7       5.3      6.o      4.4     20.5
Repurchase obligations:
Governnnt bonds                  194.7   247.9   255.8   275.4   276.1    307.7
Municipal bonds                    -        -         -        3.3      2.9      2.3
Mortgage cedulas                  65.4     49.5      34.5    29.1      21.0     13.5
Mortgage bonds                     -         -        -       20.9     20.0      -
Securities issued                  -        -         -       70.0    71.8      66.7
TOTAL                    267.5   304.1    295.6    404.7   396.2    411.3
1/  Based on Decree Law No. 1606 of November 1966, a contract was signed in June 1967 with
the Rcuadorian Govern_mnt for the settlemnt of loans and other accounts paable to
c0N. The settlemnt had the effect of reducing the balance of loans and other accounts
reocivable from the Governrent by S/56.4 .dllion and paid-in capital by the em amount.
2/ Foreign exchanep obligations (principally loans and interest) are stated at 5/18.18 per
US dollar. Becausa of the devaluation of the sucre from S/18 to 5/25 per US dollar
effective August 16, 1970, undiatributed earnings are overstated by 5/68.5 Million and
certain loans pWable ar  understated by an equal  uant.
3/  The losses mentioned in footnote 2/ were due to the devaluation of the Ecuadorian
currency and reached the amount o  S/72.25 million. This amount was partly covered
by the profits of FY71 and partly by using the reserves.
4/ Ineludes expDens  for projeaot under study and promtion S/11.8 million.
LCPDF
April 9, 1973



ECUADOR    APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FIlANCIERA PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES-CORPORACION FINANCIEA 1ACIONAL
Audited Statements of Income and Expenses for Calendar Years 1964-66,
Six Months Elded June 30, 1967, and Fiscal Years ended June 30, 1968-72
(In S/ million)
1964     1965      1966     19fi-7   F7  1968      F! 1969      FY 1970      FY 1971      FY 'T f
( s=sonths)
nItoress                            35.6      42.u     41.5      20.b       44.U          55.o       61.4          72.2
Hcnd dis > -nt                        2.1       3.3      3.3       1.5        3.0           4.1         3.9          3.6         K.
,,IIher                              0.1       0.3       0.5      0.1        o.6           0.8         1.6          1.6
Total                38.         . ,              22.4                    60.7        66.9         76.5
F sENSES
interest ana comwnissionis            4.8      3.5       5.2       2.6       4.3           8.3        10.4         21.6         31.L
AtELinistrative and general           4.5       4.6      6.8       3.5      10.7         U1.8         16.1         23.8         2d
eprecistion                           -       0.5                           0 °-3  0.6                             0.4
Total                 9o3       8.6     12.5       6.4      15.6          20.5        27.2         46.2         60.5
Operating income                     28.7      37.0     32.7      16.0       32.0         40.2        39.7         30.7         3,. 3
ProvItsion for possible losses         -         -        -                                  - -       3.2          5.1          2.J
write-off of promotional expenses                                                                      i -  -    ,.
.'.TRAORDINARY INeCCISE ( EXPENSE;)
Bond discount in.come e10m2ed
Previous years                       -         -        -         -          -            -           -          18.5
i.osq due to devaluation in August
I 970                                                                                                           (72.3)        (I.>- J
Adjustment on devaluation loss
accounted for in FY 1971                                                                                          _
Adiusted Net income                                                                                               (28.2)        2L.6
Capitalization                         -      63.7        -       13.0      30.0          20.0        18.1         18.3
Reserve for contingencies              -        2.0       -       19.7      18.0          ;0.2        16.9        (u6.8)
;nappropriated: surplus period       28.7    (28.7)    32.7    (16.7)    (16.0)             -           -            -          44.S
28                   .7     16.0                     40.2        35.0        (28.2)
/ Losses on European borrowings resulting fron the exchange rate adjustments which followed the devaluation
cf the dollar in 1971.
iLong-term debts vis-a-vis AID were reduced by US$350,000 during FY1972.  The S/2.4 million expressed as
extraordinary income compensates for the devaluation loss on the aforementioned amount which was accounted
icr i. FY 1971.
-   9, 1973



ANNEX 27
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
COMISION DE VALCRES-CORPCRACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Projected Industrial Operations 1973-77, compared with 1972
(in S/million)
30 June
(Fiscal Year)                 1972      1973      1974      1975       1976      1977
APPROVALS
Industrial loans             293.5    404.0    520.0    688.o    910.0  1,119.0
Equity investments             6.o      63.0     120.0    136.0    149.0    154.0
Total Approvals         299.5    459.3    640.0    824.0  1,059.0  1,273.0
COMMITMENTS
Industrial loans             280.4    363.0    467.0    617.0    816.0  i,oOl.0
Equity investments             6.o      63.0    120.0    136.0    149.0    154.0
Total Commitments       286.4    430.0    587.0        753.0    965.0  1,158.0
DISBURSEMENTS
Industrial loans             218.4    297.4    382.7    506.1    669.3    823.2
Equity investments            40.5      55.2    105.6    120.0    130.0    136.0
Total Disbursements     258.9    352.6    488.3       626.1    799.3       959.2
LCPDF
April 9, 1973



ANNXU 28
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIMRA PROJECT
CaMISION DE VALORES - CORPOEACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Projected Gap in Foreign 34oan7e Roeource over tbe Period 1972-76
(sn S/ idUan)
Semester   Semester   Semester   Semester   Semester   Semester   Semester   Semester   Semester
2           1           2           1           2           1           2           1           2
1972        1973        1973        1974        1974        1975        1975        1976        1976
Funds uncoamitted at
beginning of period                 88.4 I/   248.9        139.1        13.7         -          38.5       372.2        186.3         -
F'unds obtained for commitments
during the period
a) from existing loans
rDB 233/OC-EC              252.5         -            -
b) from new loans
1DB                          -           -           -           -                     500.0          -           -           -
KfV                          -           -            -          -           78.5         -           -           -           -
c) from loan repayments          44.4         39.9        42.4        50.8        60.4        69.4        78.0        85.4        95.8
Fotal funds available for
commitmsents during the period   385.3         288.8       181.5        64.5       138.9       607.9       450.2       271.7        95.8
-ojected commitents durinx
the period                         136.3       149.8       167.8       187.8       210.4       235.7       263.9       296.2       331,2
!'se of funds available for
commitments during the period
a) from existing loans
IDB 233/OC-EC               62.0        69.9       106.9        13.7         -            -           -           -           -
IBRD 721-EC                  9.9         -           -           -           _            _           _           _           _
KfW 878-EC                  20.0        40.0        18.5         -            -           -           -           -           -
b) from new loans
IDB                          -           -           _     -                 -         127.8       185.9       186.3          -
KfW                          -           -           -           -          40.0        38.5          -           -           -
c) from loan repayments          44.4        39.9         42.4        50.8        60A4        69.4        78.0        85.4        95.8
Total             136.3       149.8       167.8        64.5       100.4       23S.7        263.9       271.7        95.8
Funds uncommitted at end of
period                             249.0       139.0        13.7         -          38.5       372.2       186.3         -           -
ip in foreign exchange resources    -             -           -         123.3       110.0         -           -          24.5       235.4
-    n           =             =_=.                                                       =
I S/9.9 million from IBRD's industrial loan 721-EC and S/78.5 million from Kreditanstalt filr Wiedereufbau's loan KfW-878-EC.
ZCPDr
:pril 9, 1,7j3



AJ=29
5ADm - APPRAiSL oF THl SmCaD yDwOI   faDJ
OMCESIOU 13 VALOUS - ODQRPCIxI  WCIam NACIGNAL
Projected BaLlance  Sh r        ompared with 1972
(Fiscal Year)                                                June 30
1972     1973      19S74    1975      1976     1977
(Aotuul)
ASSBUTS
Current assets:
Cah and bank deposits                  50.5     59.5      62.0     70.3      77.2     84.4
Marketable securities                 238.7    222.7    196.8    179.1    167.5    163.2
Other                                  16.0     20.9      23.0     25.3      27.7      30.4
Total current  e"t.2/       305.2    303.1    281.8    274.7    272.4    278.0
Portfolios
Medium-and long-term loans:
Industrial                          634.1    803.8  1,045.2  1,354.5  1,776.2  2,309.4
Pre-investent                         -        3.3      12.5      38.5     49.5    6o.o
SOll industry                        24.5     34.0      47.4      55.0     55.4      55.7
Governmnt                            21.9    21.3      19.4      18.0     16.9      16.4
Other loans                          54.1     32.0      43.1      52.0     59.4      66.4
Sub-total                   734.6    894.4  1,167.6  1,518.0  1,957.4  2,507.9
Equity investmnts                     101.5    156.7    260.3    370.0    494.0    619.0
Total portfolio             836.1  1,051.1  1,427.9  1,888.0  2,451.4  j,126.9
Less:
Provision for losses                    9.6     11.9      16.3     21.5      27.9      36.0
Net portfolio               826.5  1,039.2  1,411.6  1,866.5  2,423.5  J,090.9
Projects under study and promotion       11.7     15.9      24.0     22.6      22.9      21.0
Fixed assets (net)                        6.2      9.2      24.2     27.2      30.2      31.6
Other asset.                              1.9      2.1       2.3      2.5       2.8       3.1
TOTAL ASSETS              1,151.5  1,369.5  1,743.9  2,193.5  2,751.8  3,424.6
LIABILITISS
Current liabilitie,2/                    33.3     36.6      40.2     44.2      48.6     53.4
Deferred liabilities and earninp          1.0      2.0       4.0      6.0       8.0      10.0
Ildium- and long-torn liabilities:
adium- and long-term loans:
Existing loans:
Central Bank                       34.6     20.0       -         -        -         -
AID                               117.4    117.4    117.4    113.6    109.7    107.8
IDB                               209.3    231.3    301.3    458.7    436.2    425.0
Swids Bank consortium               7.5      5.8       4.6       3.4      2.3       1.7
Ireditanstalt                      63.8     80.9    142.8    140.5    136.1    133.9
IBD                                26.2    161.9    194.1    188.0    173.5    165.4
CAF                                 -       36.5      31.4      26.9     22.4      20.2
Loans under negotiation:
IBMD                                -         -      102.8    250.0    243.4    230.9
Swi Bank oonaortium                 -        11.4     50.0      66.3     41.3      28.8
Foreoast new loans:
Central Bark                        -         -        -         -       30.0      30.0
IDB                                 -         -        -         -      250.0    500.0
Xreditanatalt                       -         -        -        24.1     78.5      78.5
IBRD                                -                            -      125.0    275.0
Other                               -         -        -                 4 48.0    208.9
Sub-total                   458.8    665.2    S4.±4  1,271.5  1,696.4  2,206.1
Bond.s                                 75.7     49.2      87.3    135.0    191.3    272.3
Fund for infrastructure                27.7     28.7      30.1      32.0     34.3      37.0
Total medium- and long-
torn liabilities            562.2    743.1  1,061.8  1,438.5  1,922.0  2,515.4
Equitr:
Share capital                         500.0    500.0    500.0    700.0    700.0    700.0
Reserves                               55.0     87.8    137.9        4.8     73.2    145.8
Net worth                   555.0    587.8    637.9    704.8    773.2    845.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES         1,151.5  1,369.5  1,743.9  2,193.5  2,751.8  3,424.6
AND EQUMT                    =   -=                                =         -
1/  Not including current portion of loan portfolio.
2/  Not including current portion of long-tern borrowings.
LCPIF
April 9, 1973



ANNEX 30
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORBS - CORORCIOM FINANCIERA NkACIONAL
Projected Statements of Income and Exaenses 1973-77, compared with 1972
(in S/mi lion)
i2~  1973Jime
(Actual)
Iter,st                            84.3   92.1   123.1   259.2   197.4   235.6
Awortization of bond discount       5.5     4.4     4.8      5.2     5.6     5.8
Other                              _L.0     6.6    15.8    25.9    27.9    28.0
Total             2      103.1       .            230.9
WEXPSES
Interest and comissions            31.4    33.3    49.5    72.0   102.1   128.0
Admwinistrative and general        28.2    33.1    37.9   43.3   49.7    55.0
Depreciation & other                0.9     o.6     1.4     1.0      2.0    *.0
Total             60.     6.0    8        116.3      -    186.0
Operating Incom                    33.3   36.1    55.9    74.0    77.1    83.4
1-rovision for Possible losses      2,0     2.3     6. .64                   8.1
Net Income                          16838 
EXTRACEDIARY I*CC  (Expense)
Loss due to devaluation in             1
August 1970
Adjuatment on devaluation loss
accounted for in FP  1971         2d4     -       7        _       _       _
Adjusted Not Income                 =6    a -              6B88.
,ossaes on european borrowings resulting from the exchange rate adjustments
;!" ich followed the devaluation of the dollar in 1971.
2/ Long-term debts vis-a-vis AID wwre reduced by US$350,000 during FT 1972.
The S/2.s million xprc-ied as extraordinary income compensa1tes for the
devauat&on loss on the aforementioned amount which was accounted for in
.971.
A'sw.. 9, 1973



ANNSI  31
ECUAWOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
COMISION if VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIRRA NACIONAL
Projected Sourcos and Applications of Funds 1973-77
(in S/ ml1lion)
June 30
(Fiscal Tear)                         1973      1974      1975       1976      1977
SOURCES
Net income                            33.8       51.5      68.8      70.7       75.3
Depreciation and amortization          0.6       0.4        1.0       2.0        3.0
Cash generation          34.4       51.9      69.8       72.7      78.3
YAbdium- and long-term borrowing:
&d.sting loans                     227.0     187.4      177.3       -          -
Loans under negotiation             11.4     141.4      172.2       _          -
Forecast new loans                   -         -         24.1     507.4      560.9
Issue of bonds                         -        60.0       83.0      97.0      123.0
Loan repaqzents:
Industrial                         127.7     141.3      196.8     247.6      290.0
Pre-investment                       -         1.3        1.3       2.5        3.1
Small induatry                       7.9       7.6       10.4      14.6       14.7
Government                           o.6        1.9       1.4       1.1        0.5
Others                              22.1       8.9       11.1      12.6       13.0
Projects under study and promotion
(recuperation)                       2.3       7.8        7.4       4.6       2.9
Sale of equitj investments             -         2.0       10.3       6.o       11.0
Increase provision for losses          2.3       4.4        5.2       6.4        8.1
Deferred liabilities and earnings      1.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0
TOTAL                    436.7     617.9     772.3      974.5   1.107.5
APPLICATION6
Medium- and long-term loans:
Industrial                         297.4     382.7      506.1     669.3      823.2
Pre-investment                       3.3      10.5       27.3      13.5       13.6
Sma1J industry                      17.4      21.0       18.0      15.0       15.0
Government                           -          -         _         _          _
Others                               -        20.0       20.0      20.0       20.0
Equity investments                    55.2      105.6     120.0     130.0      136.0
Debt repaymentst
L3dsting loans                      32.0      49.6       37.8      50.9       26.2
Loans under negotiation              -          -         8.7      31.6       25.0
Forecast new loans                   -          -         -         _          _
Bond amortization                     26.5      21.9       35.3      40.7       42.0
Projects under study and
promotion                            6.5      15.9        6.o       4.9        1.0
Fixed assets                           3.6       15.4       4.0       5.0        4.4
Other assets                           0.2        0.2       0.2       O.3        0.3
TOTAL                   442.1      642.8     783.4      981.2   1,106.7
=     ~ ~                   -
Increase in working capital
(decrease)                          (5.4)    (24.9)    (11.1)      (6.7)      (0.8)
LCPDF
April 9, 1973



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
CT SION DE VATLORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Past and Proected Finaxncial Ratios
Past                             Projected
1968  1969  1970  1971   1 972    1973  1974  1975  1976  1977
Total debt/equity                             o.6   o.6   0.5   1.2   1.1         1.3   1.7   2.1    2.6   3.0
Term debt/equity                              0.55!  0.5i/ 0.52./ 0.8   0.9       1.1    1.5   1.9   2.3   2.7
Book value as % of par value                108.9  112.9  115.9  106.1  111.0   117.6  127.6  100.7  110.4  120.8
Administrativa expenses as % of
average total assets                        1.6   1.5   2.0   2.4   2.5         2.7   2.5   2.3   2.1    1.9
EArnings before interest, and
provisions as % of average total assets     5.1   6.1    6.o   5.2   5.6        5.5   6.8   7.4   7.2   6.8
Financial expenses as % of average
total assets                                o.6   1.0   1.2   2.1   2.7         2.6   3.2   3.6   4.1   4.1
Gross spread                                  4.5   5.1    4.8   3.1    2.9       2.9   3.6   3.8   3.1    2.7
Earnings before provision as % of
average equity                              6.8    8.0   7.3   5.6   6.1        6.3   9-1  11.0  10.4  10.3
Net earnings as % of average
Share capital                               7.5   8.8   7.4   5.22/ 6.3_/   6.8  10.3  11.5  11.8  12.5
Equity                                      6.8   8.o   6.4   4.7   5.8         5.9   8.4  10.2   9.6   9.3
Total assets                                4.5   5.1   4.1   2.5   2.7         2.7   3.3   3.5   2.8   2.5
1/ Debt includes short-term loans.
2/ Excluding loss due to devaluation in August 1970.
LCPDF
April 9, 1973



ANNEX 3.
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND FINANCIERA PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
I3RD Fiscal Year and                            Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter                                      at End of Quarter
September 30, 1973                                          -
December 31, 1973                                         1,700
March 31, 1974                                            3,800
June 30, 1974                                             6,hoo
1974/1975
September 30, 197L"                                       9,5000
December 31, 1974                                        12,400
March 31, 1975                                           15,200
June 30, 1975                                            17,700
1973/1976
September 3C, 1975                                       19,600
December 31, 1975                                        20,000
,ipc!'  9, 1973



