FILE Copy                                 Document of
The World BanW
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2308-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
July 10, 1978
IThis dOCUent 1m raestIcted dtrbud  mad my he ued by recipents only In the perfomace of
their offical du. IS  entess mny bnt   re  be discosemd wtht World Dak atoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =     Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1                 -     Paise 100
US$1                       Rs 8.6
Rs 1                 =     US$0.1163
Rs 1 million         =     US$116,279.07
Rs 1 billion               US$116,279,068.77
(Since September 25, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. As of June 26, 1978,
the exchange rate was Rs 8.30 to US$1.0).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
BMC    -  Bombay Municipal Corporation
GOM    -  Government of Maharashtra
BMRDA  -  Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority
WSSD   -  Water Supply and Sewerage Department
BEST   -  Bombay Electricity Supply and Transport Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:        Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC).
Amount:             US$196 million.
Terms:              Standard.
On-Lending          India to Maharashtra:  As part of Central assistance for
Terms:            State development projects on terms and conditions appli-
cable at the time. Maharashtra to BMC: For 25 years,
including four years of grace, at 6-3/4% per annum.
Project             Construction of facilities required for the treatment,
Description:      transmission and distribution of 450 million liters
per day of water, and for improvement and extension
of sewage collection, treatment and disposal; provi-
sion of public water taps and latrines for the slum
areas; improved detection of water distribution system
losses, repair of mains and metering; training and
technical assistance. Because the project involves
large and complex civil engineering works, there is a
risk that temporary shortages of materials, lateness
on the part of manufacturers in meeting contractual
delivery dates, or lack of management skills on the
part of contractors could lead to delays in implementa-
tion. However, BMC is expected to be able to minimize
the impact of these delaying factors as a result of the
experience and improved management techniques it has
gained as a result of the first IDA-assisted Bombay
Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Estimated                                                      (US$ million)
Cost:                 Components                        Local  Foreign  Total
Water Supply                           90.5    24.0   114.5
Sewerage                               72.8    21.2    94.0
Common Services                         3.5      -        3.5
Engineering                            24.3      5.0    29.3
Training                                0.7      0.2      0.9
Land                                    3.8      -        3.8
Public Taps and Latrines               11.6      --      11.6
Subtotal                        207.2    50.4   257.6
Physical Contingency                   25.1      9.0    34.1
Price Contingency                      82.7    18.5   101.2
Duties and Taxes                       18.7      --     18.7
Total Project Cost              333.7    77.9   411.6
Financing                                                      (US$ million)
Plan:                                                   Local  Foreign  Total
IDA Credit                           118.1    77.9   196.0
cOM Loans                              50.9      --     50.9
BMC Internal Cash Generation         164.7      --    164.7
Total                           333.7    77.9   411.6
Estimated
Disbursements:                                      (US$ millions)
IDA FY         FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84   FY85
Annual             1.0  16.0  33.6  49.0  50.6  36.8    9.0
Cummulative        1.0  17.0  50.6  99.6 150.2 187.0  196.0
Rate of Return:           6%.
Appraisal Report:         Report No. 1970b-IN, dated July 5, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$196 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a water supply and sewerage project in
Bombay. The proceeds of the credit would be channelled to the Government
of Maharashtra in accordance with the Government of India's standard terms
and arrangements for the financing of State development projects. The
Government of Maharashtra will lend the funds to the Bombay Municipal Cor-
poration for 25 years, including four years of grace, at 6-3/4% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas, their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys
many of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development.
Although literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well
trained administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entre-
preneurial class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by
I/   Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Second National Dairy Development Project
(Report No. P-2309-IN), dated May 26, 1978.



- 2-
international comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is
relatively well-placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very
large reserves of coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric
potential. Recent petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited
and prospects are bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the
infrastructure needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute
terms the irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are
each among the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed,
world. However, considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly
from state to state.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 200
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exists. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950s, life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940s to 45-50 years in the 1970s, school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children of primary school age and from 5% to 29% of children of
secondary school age since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950s to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An ad-
verse shift in terms of trade, starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and



- 3 -
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year, greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround ocurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction of the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production of iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports. The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have averaged 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared with
1.3 million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved
extension system, which has been getting heartening results, has been intro-
duced in several states and is slated for further coverage.



-4-
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent crop expectations, price stability and good
prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange. The circum-
stances present a great opportunity for further promoting the development of
the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed though
not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this chal-
lenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall investment
and public Plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7% per
annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum during
the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development toward improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low-income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small-scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step toward complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
of construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--have been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978/79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the Plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth Plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.



15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in governimcnt outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970s. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension to more states and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased, not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices, and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several states in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid-1960s--large un-
utilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and low
productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one of
the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries, which
make up a significant portion of the sector. Sluggish demand for industrial
products from all sources--not only from investments but also from agricul-
ture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint. Further
import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufactured goods
in the future because most opportunities for efficient import substitution
have been exploited. Increased growth of real incomes from greater produc-
tivity in both agriculture and manufacturing, sustained increases in exports
and increased investment, particularly by the public sector, all can raise
demand for industrial production.
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small-scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing and, within the small-scale sector, plans to initiate special



- 6 -
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to
the small-scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small-scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small-scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality is not falling as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 per thousand by the end of the century,
implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best guess" pro-
jection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many of the
benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the
century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier change
in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow more
slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the primary
and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will continue to
grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990s, result-
ing in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force from
40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The Government's goal of eliminating unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small-scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small-
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large-scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development. With good medium-term prospects for
India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in invisible receipts



and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments, the net availability
of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is projected to rise over
the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7 billion in 1977/78 to
US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum. Given the unlikely
need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally important items -- e.g.,
petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and cotton -- other imports can
increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth to below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of
GDP from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion, implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income growth, the pre-
sent situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will
be sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will
be necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort
will be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks
in pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs
of its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 54 loans and 103 development
credits to India totalling US$2,117 million and US$5,932 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$901 million had been
repaid, and US$2,236 million was still undisbursed as of May 31, 1978. Annex
II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of May 31, 1978, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$63.6
million, of which US$14.5 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$34.6 million, US$26.9 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of May 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



- 8 -
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank



- 9 -
lending. As of May 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,254
million, of which US$566 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$689 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1977/78. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE IN BOMBAY
30.       Since the early 1950s, rapidly expanding population and unprece-
dented rates of urban growth have led to increasing demand for water supply
and sanitation. However, competing demands for resources for other sectors,
lack of management and planning skills, shortages of key materials and equip-
ment and foreign exchange constraints have resulted in only 1 to 2% of public
expenditures being invested in this sector. Present levels of water supply
and sewerage services reflect this history of relatively small investments
against a background of rising population and urbanization. The World Health
Organization has estimated that, according to its standards, in 1975 about
193 million people in India, or 31% of the total population, had access to
reasonably safe drinking water and that about 125 million (20%) had acceptable
means of sewage disposal. Rapid urbanization in India's four largest metro-
politan areas -- Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi and Madras -- has created an urgent
need to strengthen the water supply and sewerage systems serving these areas,
if acceptable levels of service are to be provided.
31.       Bombay, which had a population in 1977 of 7.6 million people, is
the second largest city and largest port in India, the capital of the State
of Maharashtra, and an industrial center accounting for about 30% of India's
industrial output. Extension of the original city limits in 1951 and 1958
created the Greater Bombay area of 440 square kilometers, which is administered
by the Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC). The BMC was established in 1888
and is responsible for the provision of many services, including water supply,
sewerage and sewage disposal, in the Greater Bombay area.
Water Supply
32.       Bombay's first piped water system was constructed in the mid-
nineteenth century to serve commercial and residential areas on the southern
portion of Bombay island near the harbor and the Fort. Vihar Lake was
Bombay's first source of water. The lake, or reservoir, was brought into
use in 1860 and provided a 24-hour supply for an 8-year period. However,



- 10 -
rapid growth of commerce and industry caused a northward expansion of the
city, accompanied by the development of Salsette, an adjacent island, and
reclamation of land from the sea by filling shallows, bays, inlets and
creeks. As a result, the demand for water soon outstripped the supply
from Vihar Lake, leading to development of an adjacent source, the Tulsi
reservoir, which was brought into use in 1879. By 1883, further increases
in demand for water prompted the development of the Tansa reservoir, the
first of the more distant, and more expensive, sources of water on the
mainland.
33.       Work on the Vaitarna project was begun in 1944 and completed in
1957. However, the extension of the city's boundaries in the 1950s once again
led to an increase in the city's water demand, and the Upper Vaitarna scheme
was started in 1965. The State Government also permits the Corporation to
extract water from the Ulhas river, for which works were completed in 1967.
The estimated present (1977) yield from the existing sources is 1,600 million
liters per day (mld), of which 955 mld is available for distribution to 7.6
million domestic consumers after allocations to industry, commerce, areas on
the route of major conduits, and after allowances for transmission and dis-
tribution losses. The resulting average availability of water of about 125
liters per capita per day (lpcd) is much less than the demand, and the supply
is therefore limited to between 2 and 8 hours per day, depending on location.
34.       The quality of water is unsatisfactory since the only form of
treatment--pending completion of the on-going project (see paragraph 39 below)
in 1979--is chlorination, which is ineffective during periods of high water
turbidity. Even this low level of supply of doubtful quality water can only
be maintained during years of normal rainfall. Failure or partial failure of
the monsoon in India is a cyclical event rather than a rare phenomenon; recent
occurences (1966 and 1972) caused drastic curtailment of the already restricted
hours of supply and serious interruption of industrial activity as well as
severe hardship to the people. Consideration was even given to evacuating
a significant part of the city's population, because there was insufficient
water to provide for the most essential uses.
35.       In 1964 a special committee appointed by BMC to investigate new
sources of water for Bombay recommended construction of a dam across the
Bhatsai river to provide ultimately 1,350 mld for Bombay and 450 mld for
irrigation. The State Government took up the work, and the first stage of
the massive masonry dam, supplying 450 mld to Bombay, was completed in June
1978. Two subsequent stages, each supplying an additional 450 mld to Bombay,
will be completed by 1985, when the total amount of water available for dis-
tribution in Bombay from all sources is expected to reach about 2,415 mld.
Even if the proposed project is implemented, the per capita availability of
water would decline slightly from its present level of 125 lpcd to 120 lpcd
in 1991 if the population were to reach 11 million. (This is the mean of
available population projections, which range from 9 to 13 million.) How-
ever, if the population should reach 13 million and if the project is not
implemented, the supply in 1991 during a year of normal rainfall could decline
to 75 lpcd, the lowest level in the 120-year history of Bombay's piped water
supply system.



- 11 -
Sewerage
36.       Sewerage facilities for Bombay also date back to the 1860s.  The
Worli marine outfall, which discharges sewage to the Arabian Sea above low-
water level, was completed in 1880; by 1900 all sewage within the city was
conveyed to Lovegrove and thence to sea via the Worli outfall. By 1905, the
basis of the present, separate system had been established and subsequent
increments of flow were met by duplicating or replacing sewers, providing
overflows to relieve surcharged sections in developing areas, laying new
sewers in newly developed areas, and adding treatment plants.
37.       In an effort to provide adequate service for the rapidly growing
population, extensive relief works were sanctioned in 1948, but these measures
were rapidly overtaken by industrial and commercial development and population
increases. The need for improvement of the system was intensified by the
extension of the city's boundaries in the 1950s.  In 1963 a committee of ex-
perts appointed by BMC recommended expanding and upgrading the system to meet
the 1981 population requirements.  Due to financial constraints, only minor
improvements were made, so that Bombay's sewerage facilities continue to be
grossly inadequate.
38.       Sewerage service levels lag behind water supply in terms of popula-
tion served, percentage of urban and suburban areas covered, capacity of the
collection and conveyance system and effectiveness of treatment and disposal
facilities. Only 44% of the total area of Greater Bombay is served by sewers.
The existing sewerage system is characterized by inadequate capacity and
obsolescence. The surcharged system often causes sewage to overflow into sur-
face water drains, footpaths, roadways and private properties. Since sewage
treatment is negligible, there is widespread pollution of creeks, inland
waterways and beaches.
Recent Developments
39.       In the late 1960s the Government of Maharashtra appointed Messrs.
Binnie and Partners Ltd. (U.K.), Consulting Engineers, to investigate and
report on the water supply and sewerage systems for Bombay. The report,
which was issued in 1971, identified the least-cost means of improving
those systems over the period 1971 to 1981. The first stage of this program
formed the IDA-assisted Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit
No. 390-IN, of January 22, 1974, for US$55 million).
40.       In the water supply component under the first project, water released
from the Bhatsai dam will be pumped from Pise Weir, some 48 km below the dam,
over a distance of 8 km to a treatment plant at Panjrapur, where it will be
clarified into settling tanks. This settled water will then be conveyed to
the main treatment plant at Bhandup, where water from all of the BMC sources
will be filtered and chlorinated. Fully treated water from Bhandup will be
conveyed to distribution reservoirs in Greater Bombay and thence to consumers.
Sewerage system improvements under the first project comprise extension of
parts of the sewage collection system, including renovation and construction
of sewage pumping stations.



- 12 -
41.       The first project was intended to cover works during the period
1973-77, but it was subsequently reduced in scope because of rising costs,
and its completion was extended from 1978 to 1979. Despite these setbacks,
the project will achieve much of its original purpose, increasing the water
supply by about 450 mld to a total of about 1,900 mld, providing full water
treatment, and moderately improving the sewage collection system. BMC pro-
poses to implement a second stage of the original program--which was intended
to cover works scheduled for implementation during the period 1977 to 1981--
and has requested the Association's assistance; this work, with the addition
of items deferred from the first project, would form the basis of the proposed
project.
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Organization
42.       While the Central Government has considerable influence on the
sector, State Governments in India have primary responsibility for develop-
ment of water supply and sewerage facilities. The States execute their
responsibilities through various departments of government and agencies which,
in turn, may delegate part or all of their duties to local authorities. In
certain cases (as in the case of BMC), legislation has been enacted to permit
municipal authorities or other agencies to assume responsibility for planning,
design, construction, operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage
services within their jurisdictions.
43.       Water supply and sewerage development in the State of Maharashtra is
largely the responsibility of the Environmental Engineering Organization, a
State Government agency, which undertakes planning, implementation, operation
and maintenance of most rural water supply projects as well as planning and
implementation of some of the municipal water supply and sewerage projects.
In January 1977, the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board was formed;
however, for the moment it is acting only as a financing channel, raising
funds by borrowing from local financing institutions and on the open market.
44.       Although BMC has been responsible for municipal services, including
water supply and sewerage, since 1888, the need for planning on a broader
geographic basis was realized during engineering studies of BMC's water needs
in 1971. The Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (BMRDA) was
therefore established by the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) in 1975 to co-
ordinate the activities of local bodies within the Bombay Metropolitan Region
and to promote regional investment planning in such sectors as urban renewal,
transportation, communication and water resources management. It has recently
completed a water resources study for the Bombay Metropolitan Region; this
study is satisfactory, and the proposed project is consistent with its
recommendations.
45.       A separate Water Supply and Sewerage Department (WSSD) of BMC was
established in 1973 and is responsible to the principal committee of BMC for
the planning, development, operation and maintenance of water supply, sewerage
and sewage disposal services. A separate Water and Sewerage Fund and a Con-
solidated Loans Fund for WSSD were established with effect from April 1, 1974.
The Municipal Commissioner, an officer appointed by GOM, is the principal
officer of BMC and is responsible for the management of all services except



- 13 -
those of Bombay Electricity Supply and Transport Authority (BESl). He retains
overall control of WSSD, assisted by a Deputy Municipal Commissioner, Special
Engineering.
Investment in Water Supply and Sewerage
46.       Substantial investment in capital works is necessary, since substan-
tial parts of the water supply and sewerage infrastructure in Bombay must be
enlarged, renovated or even constructed in their entirety from the water
source or to the sewage outfall. Water augmentation is expensive in Bombay
because of the remoteness of the sources of supply and the absence of ground-
water. The comparatively large investment in sewerage reflects the long
failure to provide treatment or disposal facilities. There is no question
that these large investments are critically needed in Bombay, for the reasons
outlined above. However, the very large absolute size of the investment
raises questions as to the costs in terms of investment foregone in other
sectors and other areas. Because the total public Plan expenditure in
Maharasthra is expected to increase substantially during the Sixth Plan Period
(1978/79-1982/83), the proportion devoted to urban water supply is not ex-
pected to exceed the 4.5% share of this sector during the Fifth Plan. Thus,
the share of investment in other sectors will not be reduced as a result of
the proposed project. Investment in water supply and sewerage amounts to
about 40% of total public sector investment in the BMC area (1977/78) and has
risen in the past four years from 35% to 60% of BMC's capital budget. This
appears reasonable, since the historic neglect of the sector has resulted in
a marked deterioration in service levels relative to those in other sectors
for which BMC is responsible. Since operating expenses in the sector consti-
tute a relatively small proportion (7-8%) of BMC's total operating budget,
the overall share of BMC's budget allocated to water supply and sewerage is no
more than 20%.
Bank Group Involvement in Bombay
47.       In addition to the (first) Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project,
described above, a US$25 million Bank Loan (No. 1335-IN of December 20, 1976)
was extended for the Bombay Urban Transport Project. This project, which is
designed to improve bus services in Greater Bombay and to improve BMRDA's
traffic management and development planning activities, is progressing satis-
factorily after initial delays. While BMRDA has undertaken some regional
studies, it is not clear that it has made much progress toward fulfilling
the broader planning and coordination functions envisaged for it. A super-
vision mission now in the field will review the situation. The recently
approved Third Trombay Thermal Power Project (Loan No. 1549-IN of June 19,
1978) provides US$105 million toward the cost of a 500 MW power station which
is expected to contribute to the reduction of power shortages in the Bombay
area. Bombay's large industrial sector has also benefitted from Bank Group
lending to ICICI and IDBI as well as for industrial imports.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       The proposed project was prepared by BMC with the assistance of con-
sultants and appraised by an IDA mission in January 1978. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "India: The Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project"
(No. 1970b-IN, dated July 5, 1978) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in June 1978. The
Government of India was represented by Dr. Y. V. Reddy of the Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance; the Government of Maharashtra was re-
presented by Mr. V. Venkatesan, Secretary (Planning); and BMC was represented
by a team headed by Mr. B. K. Chougule, Municipal Commissioner. A Supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
49.       The water supply component of the proposed project would provide
for the treatment, transmission and distribution of an additional 450 mld
of water to the Greater Bombay area, thus maintaining the supply for domestic
purposes roughly at its present per capita level as the population increases
over the next 10-15 years and slightly increasing the supply to industry. The
water distribution system and facilities for slum areas would also be improved.
However, the hours of supply throughout most of the city would continue to be
limited to 3-8 hours per day. The project also contains provision for more
intensive detection of distribution system losses and repair of existing
mains. 1/
50.       The sewerage component would improve and extend the collection
system from 44% to 90% of the Greater Bombay area, would provide treatment
and safe means of disposing of sewage from the whole of the urban population,
and would provide additional public latrines for the slum areas. While main-
tenance of public latrines is good in some areas, it is quite poor in others;
this depends in large part on the energy and efficiency of the Ward Officer.
BMC intends to improve maintenance in the wards where it is inadequate through
improved supervision of attendants, whose task will be made easier by the
increased availability of water for flushing and cleansing. The project
also provides for continuation of WSSD's training program and technical
assistance for engineering design and supervision of the proposed works.
51.       The source of water for the project is the Bhatsai reservoir, for
which the Bhatsai dam is now under construction by the Irrigation Department
of GOM. GOM has agreed to ensure the construction of the dam, including the
1/   Bombay's estimated distribution system losses of 15% are below the
generally accepted average for a system of this age and size; however,
losses would increase to unacceptable levels of 35 or 40% if the mains
were under pressure for 24 hours a day. WSSD therefore has expanded
its activities to detect system losses, with a view to limiting such
losses to not more than 17% as the distribution system is extended and
the hours of water supply are lengthened.



- 15 -
provision of sufficient funds, according to a schedule that will make avail-
able water from the Bhatsai reservoir required for the Project, and to have
this and other dams impounding water for use by BMC to be inspected annually
(Sections 2.04 and 2.06 of Maharashtra Agreement). BMC has agreed to give
IDA an opportunity to review and comment upon any contracts for the purchase
of bulk supplies of water (Section 4.09 of Project Agreement). In addition,
BMC has agreed that the program for detection of system losses and mains re-
pair will be improved and that improved metering procedures will be developed
and applied, both in accordance with programs acceptable to IDA (Sections 2.07
and 2.08 of Project Agreement). Finally, GOM and BMC have agreed to acquire
the land needed for the project (Section 2.05 of Maharashtra Agreement and
Section 2.09 of Project Agreement). None of the land (480 hectares) to be
acquired is used for agricultural purposes, and no resettlement is involved.
Project Implementation
52.       WSSD will have overall responsibility for project design and imple-
mentation. Although WSSD staff is capable of carrying out projects of this
type, it will require assistance by consultants to complete final engineering
design and to supervise construction of a major part of the water supply and
sewerage systems; the appointment of consulting Engineers for the engineering
design of the project is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 5.01(c) of Development Credit Agreement). BMC has also agreed to
consult with IDA prior to making any material modification in WSSD's structure,
organization, responsibilities, and technical and financial operations (Sec-
tion 3.03 of Project Agreement). WSSD plans to implement the project over a
five-year period (1979-84); this schedule is realistic. Completion of the
works within this time frame will require careful planning and good management,
which WSSD is capable of providing.
Project Costs and Financing
53.       The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies (US$135.3
million), is US$411.6 million, of which US$77.9 million, or 19%, represents
foreign exchange costs. Taxes and duties account for US$18.7 million and
physical and price contingencies for US$135.3 million of the total. The
proposed IDA credit of US$196 million would provide 50% of the cost of the
project excluding duties and taxes. An additional US$50.9 million would be
provided in the form of loans from the Government of Maharashtra, and the
balance would be provided from BMC's internal cash generation.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       All contracts for equipment, materials and meters would be awarded
under international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the
Association's guidelines, with the exception of contracts for sewer pipes,
fabrication of steel pipes (from steel plate purchased under international
bidding procedures) and items costing less than US$50,000 with an aggregate
value of not more than US$1.0 million. These items, having a total cost of
about US$26 million, are either unsuitable for overseas purchases (as in the
case of sewer pipes and fabricated steel pipe) or are too low in value to



- 16 -
attract foreign bidders or to justify international bidding. Contracts for
sewer pipes and fabrication of steel pipes would be awarded under local
competitive bidding procedures, and items costing less than US$50,000 would
be procured under BMC's local procurement procedures, both of which are
acceptable.
55.       Civil works in this project fall into two categories; the first
category includes a large number of relatively small contracts, which are
fairly widely dispersed throughout the project area, do not require special
plant, equipment or techniques, and are traditionally carried out by regis-
tered contractors established in Bombay and other major Indian cities. These
works, which include sewers and sewage pumping stations, would not attract
foreign bidders since it is clear that overseas firms could not successfully
compete with local bidders for works of this type and size. The proceeds
of the proposed credit would not be disbursed against these small civil works
contracts. The second category of civil works includes larger and more spe-
cialized works; although some local contractors have the required special-
ized knowledge, capacity, management skills and organizational ability for
these works, the contract values might be large enough to attract foreign
bidders. Such works include submarine outfalls, tunnels, one of the trunk
sewers, construction and renovation of large water mains, construction of
water and sewage pumping stations and construction of a balancing reservoir.
The estimated total value of these civil works to be internationally bid
is US$100 million.
56.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of the
cost of directly imported goods, 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured goods, 50% of expenditures for goods procured under BMC's local
procedures, 80% of the cost of civil works contracts awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding, 100% of foreign expenditures for training,
and 100% of the cost of consultants' services. A preference margin of 15% or
the current rate of import duty, whichever is less, would be granted to local
equipment manufacturers competing under international competitive bidding.
A preference margin of 7-1/2% would be allowed for local contractors in
evaluating civil works bids. All contracts except some of the larger, spe-
cialized civil works are likely to be won by local contractors. Since the
early appointment of engineering consultants is critical to project progress,
and because WSSD proposes to proceed as quickly as possible with construction
of urgently needed steel water mains, it is proposed that expenditures after
September 1, 1978 for consultants' services and advance purchase of steel
plates be retroactively financed up to a total value of US$1.0 million.
WSSD Finances
57.       WSSD was established as a separate financial entity within BMC with
effect from April 1, 1974. Accounting systems based on commercial principles
are in operation and further improvements to accounting, costing and billing
systems are planned following the installation of BMC's own computer during
1978/79. The revaluation of existing assets was completed during 1977/78.
WSSD's financial performance during the last four years has been satisfactory.
The rate of return on revalued assets was 11% in 1974/75, 9% in 1975/76, 17%



- 17 -
in 1976/77, and is estimated at 12% in 1977/78. The debt/equity ratio as of
March 31, 1978 was 38:62 and provides an adequate margin for further borrow-
ing. The current ratio was 1.8. BMC has agreed to credit to WSSD's account
Rs 56.6 million (US$6.6 million), which BMC has owed to WSSD since 1974, in
two installments in 1978/79 and 1979/80 (Section 4.06 of Project Agreement).
58.       BMC agreed, in connection with the first Bombay Water Supply and
Sewerage Project, that WSSD would generate an annual surplus which, together
with any other internal funds, is sufficient to finance 40% of the annual
capital expenditure. That requirement is met if, in any two consecutive
years, 40% of the aggregate capital expenditure is met from internal sources
and if at least 33% of capital expenditure is met from internal sources in
each of such years. This financial target has been exceeded during the last
three years--internal cash generation financed 125% of capital expenditures
in 1974/75, 52% in 1975/76, and 88% in 1976/77--partly because of capital
expenditure shortfalls caused by project delays, and is expected to be met
in 1977/78. This covenant would be repeated in the proposed project (Section
4.03 of Project Agreement). In addition, BMC has agreed to make available
to IDA WSSD's annual investment program (Section 4.04 of Project Agreement).
GOM has agreed to ensure the availability to BMC of sufficient funds to
complete the project (Section 2.03 of Maharashtra Agreement).
59.       Charges to industrial consumers have increased by 150% since
1973/74, whereas the taxes or charges to domestic consumers have remained
unchanged. However, benefit taxes which are borne by all consumers with a
connected water supply and which are based on the rateable value of all pro-
perty in Greater Bombay, were introduced from 1974/75 to finance the program
of capital expenditure. On the basis of present forecasts, which include
assumed inflation of 7% per year, cumulative tariff increases of 35% would
be needed during the project period to provide sufficient funds to meet the
cash generation covenant (paragraph 58). Although the 40% contribution to
investment could thus be met by maintaining existing tariffs in constant
prices over the project period, BMC has indicated its intention to increase
its contribution to investment to 55 or 60% by the mid-1980s. BMC has also
agreed to review by April 1, 1979 the tariff structure for water supply and
sewerage services, taking into account, inter alia, the consumers' ability
to pay, the economic cost of future expansion of these services, and IDA's
views (Section 4.08 of Project Agreement).
60.       BMC provides, on a reimbursable basis, certain services to WSSD,
the principal one of which is the billing and collection of water and sewer-
age taxes, jointly with other municipal taxes, and water and sewerage charges.
While these arrangements have administrative advantages, there have been re-
peated delays in crediting revenues to the separate WSSD account. BMC has
agreed, on receipt of WSSD's revenues, to transfer to WSSD's account suffi-
cient cash to meet WSSDs obligations and to pay interest to WSSD on any cash
balance remaining with BMC until it is required by WSSD (Section 4.05 of
Project Agreement). BMC has also agreed to separate WSSD's insurance funds
from those of the other BMC departments by March 31, 1979 (Section 3.04 of
Project Agreement). Consumer receivables have fallen from 52% of billings
in 1975/76 to 34% in 1977/78. Almost 20% of total billings in any year are



- 18 -
described as receivables simply because many of the bills for actual usage,
which are issued every two months, are issued only in the last month of the
fiscal year or after the end of the fiscal year. Some 75-80% of all bills
are paid within one year and about 90% within two years of the date they are
due. BMC has agreed to reduce progressively the level of receivables to not
more than 20% of billings by March 31, 1984 (Section 4.07 of Project Agreement).
61.       Financial projections for WSSD through 1984/85 indicate that the
debt/equity ratio will not exceed 45/55, and a debt service coverage of 1.9
is expected on completion of the second project. The current ratio will range
from 1.7 to 2.6, thus ensuring adequate liquidity during the project period.
Benefits and Risks
62.       Without the project BMC could not maintain the water supply service
even at its present level; with it, all sections of the community, including
the urban poor, will have access to reasonably safe water, although the per
capita supply will not increase. The systems for collection, conveyance and
disposal of human wastes and industrial wastes would be improved to a level
whereby health hazards would be limited to a fraction of their present levels,
and environmental pollution would be reduced. The project would strengthen
WSSD, provide additional training for technical staff and administrative
personnel and further foster the practices and concepts of sound engineering,
cost recovery and efficiency pricing in the public sector.
63.       Approximately one-third of the population of Bombay, about 2.5
million people, live in slums. The present program for the provision of
standpipes and latrines will be supplemented under the project, so that some
15,000 new latrines and 10,000 additional water taps, as well as extensions
of mains and sewers to slum areas, will be provided under the project. These
facilities will benefit the major part of the slum population. The sewerage
component will benefit the entire slum population through its impact on health.
64.       Almost all industries in the project area rely entirely on water
supplied by BMC. Since the water supply system cannot meet demand, water
to industry is supplied on a quota system, under which the supply to indus-
trial establishments is shut off when a predetermined quantity, or quota, has
been provided. This practice of restricting water is particularly detrimental
to some industries such as textiles and chemicals. The economic value of the
increase in output and employment due to increased water supply to industry
is difficult to quantify. However, it is almost certainly larger than the
revenue proxy for industrial benefits (see paragraph 66 below).
65.       Records of deaths registered in Greater Bombay in the period 1972
to 1976 indicate that 40% of all deaths were attributed to infectious and
parasitic diseases. A major part of deaths attributed to these causes is
from water- and sanitation-related diseases such as enteric fever, dysentery,
enteritis (and other diarrheal diseases), parasitic diseases and infectious
hepatitis. Reliable data on the incidence of water-borne and sanitation-
related diseases is not available, but it is clearly much higher than the
mortality figures indicate; this is demonstrated by data from Kasturba



- 19 -
Municipal Hospital for Infectious Diseases which show one death for every
20 cases treated. During monsoon months, the incidence of (and deaths from)
water-and sanitation-related diseases increases dramatically. Statistics for
gastro-inte-^inal diseases show that 37 to 56% of cases each year occur during
three monsoon months. This is attributable to a number of factors, including
a deterioration in water quality during higher monsoon flows and reduced
periods of retention in mainland reservoirs, as well as the spread of con-
taminated storm water throughout the city as the inadequate sewerage system
discharges monsoon flows mixed with untreated sewage.
66.       The internal economic rate of return of the project was calculated
using the incremental revenue that is expected to accrue to BMC as a result
of the implementation of the project. The rate of return is 5.5% if labor
is valued at its full market price and 6.0% if labor is valued at 70% of
its market price. The incremental revenue represents a minimum proxy for
benefits. For one thing, although BMC has indicated its willingness to in-
crease tariffs in real terms (paragraph 59), the rate of return calculations
are based on projections of tariffs which are constant in real terms. For
another, this method of calculation disregards various benefits: the value
of the increment in industrial output in excess of the revenue proxy; the
value of water from standpipes; the productive time saved in waiting for
water; and the health and other social benefits to the community as a whole,
which are not quantifiable but which exceed the sum of individual benefits.
67.       The risks involved in the project are no greater than can normally
be expected with operations of this type. Because the project involves large
and complex civil engineering works, there is a risk that temporary shortages
of materials, lateness on the part of manufacturers in meeting contractual
delivery deadlines, or lack of management skills on the part of contractors
will lead to delays. However, WSSD has minimized the impact of these delay-
ing factors during the first project and is expected to be able to do so even
more effectively in the future as a result of its increased experience and
improved management techniques.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Maharashtra Agreement between the Association and
the Government of Maharashtra, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the BMC, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the IDA Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The appointment of consulting engineers for the engineering
design of the project is a special condition of effectiveness (see paragraph
52 above).



- 20 -
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
July 10, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA                 SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (tHOU KM2)                               ------ ----------         ---- -----
---------------                                  INOIA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     3260.5                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    1797.5                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      60.0     lao.o      150.0              130.0        230.0      550.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)          434.9      547.6    628.4  /a             117.6        36.9        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      133.0      167.0     189.0                62.0       123.0         11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       247.0      306.0     345.0               411.0       375.0        49.0
VITAL STATIStICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         43.2       41.0       37.0                45.9        44.2        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          23.9       19.0       17.0                20.6        13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THDU)       139.0/a       .-      130.0                  *-       81.0       110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       41.7       47.2       49.5                  *-       55.6         59.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2        2.9        2.8                 3.2         3.3         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.0        2.3        2.1                 2.0         3.0         2.9
URBAN                                 2.5Lk      3.2        3.1                 3.7/a       4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           17.9       19.6      20.6                i7.5]b      27.6        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.0       41.6       40.1               44.0         45.6        42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.9       55.3       56.7               53.5        51.6        55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.1        3.1        3.2                 2.5         2.6         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.6       0.6        9.B                 0.9         0.9         o.s
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1/C      i.1 j     .L                 ..                       5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)         71.0   14565.0   37658.0                 259.3      320.0        250.0
USERS (X OF MARRIEO WOMEN)              ..        ..       18.7                  ..         2.0         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       175000.0  218000.0 261000.0/a                          12400.0    29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (53         71.0       69.0      69.0                   ..    14.0S          40.4
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)           4.8                                                  So 4.4 lb    4 4  .. 7.6  7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            26.7       25.0 /C      ..                  ..          ..        35.0/a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7       53.1 I                                                 30 54.0  62o7i
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.1        4.7  af               ,                   3:6
LOESIT  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.6       13.1         ..                           11.7        i,tE
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OUNERSHIP                       -
3 OWNEO BY TOP 10% Of OWNERS              ..         ..        ..                  ..          ..        45.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..        ..                  ..          ..         1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             5840.0.L_ 4890.0    4220.0               26370.0          ..      1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        5310.0 5220.0/d  3680.0/e                 7630.0/C        * -  3220.0 L
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2590.0LE  1610.0          ..              1640.0       850.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         9S.0       92.0       89.0                91.0        93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0       53.0      48.0                 43.0        45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0g    16.0        12.6                 14.0       22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            44.0         ..         ..                  ..         6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       41.0      63.0       65.0                75.0        113.0        87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     23.0       30.0      29.0                15.0         49.0        68.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0       11.0                12.0        10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      8.0         ..                           29.0         6.0 lb     17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE ({)                 24.0      33.0       36.0ft              59.0          ..        64.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6        2.8         ..                 ..         2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (5)                         ..        ..         ..                  ..        76.0        73.0 /C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
({ OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..         ..                  ..        23.0        48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..         ..         ..                 ..         7.0         8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           5.0       21.0      25.0               114.0        39.0        60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            0.7        1.0        1.0                2.0         8.0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            46.0      114.0     143.0                20.0       235.0       491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.2        0.3        0.3                0.3         2.0          2.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unless otherwiae noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959  nd 1961, for 1970 betwen 1969 and 1971, and for Moat Recent Estimate between
1973 ard 1976. ,_
n    b iracil has been selected a. an objective neontry because of its site and comparmble problems of regional inequality.
INDIA          1960    /a  1951-61 average;    /b  1951-60C    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and over;
td eatlmated by National Smpla Survey, in tcram of the average nuraber of person/.e.ka of unspltoyment as percentaga
of total porson/wseka in the labor force;    /a  1962;    /f  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country;    /A  Including
nid.ivee;    /h  1958;    /i  1960-62.
1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force age 15 and over;    /b  Estimated by National Sample
Survey, in terma of the average nomber of person/weeks of unmployvent as percentage of total pereon/weeks it the total
labor for.e;    /c  1967-68;    /d  Including middvivas.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATEg    /a  1978 aid-year population and labor forte estimted at 640.4 and 261 millions reapectively;    /b  Ratio of
population under 15 end 65 end over to total labor force;    /c  1977;    /d  Estimated by National Sample
Survey, in termas of the average number of person/weak of unanoploymnnt as percentage of total persontveeks
in the labor force       /.  Including midviv-;    /f  Population 10 yeor. and over.
INDONESIA      1970    /a  1961-71;    /b  1971;    /c  Including midwivs.
PHILIPPINES   1970    /a  Aa percentage of SUployment;    /b  Not including private vocational schools.
BRAZIL         1970    /a  Economically active population;    /b  Hompital personnel;    /c  Insida only.
R13, May 2, 1978
D53M11    OF OrfCiL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou bo2)                                                                      Popultion por nursing parson - Popultion divided by ember of practicing
Total    otal  urface area comprising land area  nd inland waters,                          male and famsls graduate nurse, "trained" or `certified" nures.. and
ArifiA  - Most recent setiat- of agricultural area uad t_porarily or pria-                  auxiliary personnel with training or enparienct.
nestly for crops, p-atures,  arket & kitchen gerdams or to lie fallow.                  Ponuletion oar hospital bed - Population divided by ,amber of hoapit.l bed
available in public and privaem general and specialiaed hospital and
GNP Pe. csnit. (US$) - GNP per tapitr  estiates  t current mrket price,                     rehabilitation teteri  ; e* cludee oureing homes and etbliah_enta for
calculated by  some conversion msthod as World Bank Atlee (1974-76 baeis);                custodiel and preventive   re.
1960; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                               Per caPit. supply of c_lorlee M of ruiraments) - Computed fro  pan-gy
equivalent of oat food supplies aveilabla in country per capita per day;
Populstion and vital statistics                                                              vailable supplis casprisa domestic production, Lmports lasa s.ports, end
Populstion (mid-year million) - A. of July firat:  if nort vil.ble, verage                  nhagss in stock; net supplies esclud. snioal feed, seeds, quantities uaed
of twe and-yeor estiates: 1960, 1970  nd 1976 data,                                       in food procssing oad losses in distribution; requirents wre estit.d
by FAO b.sed on physiologica1 moeda for nrmal aCtivity and health canaid-
Population density  per square kb  - Mid-year population per square kilo  ter               ering eovironmsntal tmper.ture, body weights,  e and sax distributi ons  f
(100 hectares) of total area,                                                             population, and allowing 107. for waste at household level.
Populstion dsity - por square k of erit, land - Computed as  bove for                     Per capita su"ply of  orotein     Mar   par day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land only                                                                    not supply Of food pr day; oat supply of food is defined as above; require-
me.ts for a11 countries astablihaed by USDA Ecomomic Research Services
vital statistic                                                                              provide for * nini.a  ailneanta Of 60 grma of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rat. per thouand. eerase - Annul live births per thousand of                     20 grow of eniml and pulse protein, of which 10 gros should be animl
mid-year population; ten-yer arith_tic  vrage  ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; thea.  tandards are lower then thoe of 75 grams of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for maot rec-nt eatist.                              and 23 gras of animal protein  s an  verage for th  world, proposed by FAD
Crud death rats per thoiwand. *vrame - Annual death. per tho-mnd of mid-year                 in the Third World Food Survey.
population; tao-year arithimmtic  verages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-             Per capita protein supply fro  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
yar aversge  nding in 1975 for  oat recent *stimat.                                       derived from animals  nd pulses in graso   per day.
tIfant mrtality rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age             Deth rate (/thou) ags 1-4 - Annul deaths per thousand in ege group 1-4
per thousad live birth.                                                                   years, tn children in this eg  group; suggested as n indicator of
Life  n   tctency at birth (vrs-  - Average  ausr of years of life remaining at               alnutrition.
birth; uaually fiv-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countri_s.                                                                          Eduation
Gross reproduction rate - Averag  number of live daughters a woman will bear               Adiusted *:rollmsnt ratio - primary school - Enrollmnt of all ages as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiones present age-specific                  eantge of primary school-age populatio; incIlde  children aged 6-11 yers
fertility ratas; usually fiv-year average  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  but adjuated for different lengths of priary education; for countries with
for devaloping countri                                                                    universal education, enrollnt my ec_d 1002 since s    pupils are below
Population srowth rate  2) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                or bow. th   fficial school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                            Adiutad enrollmnt ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; aecondary
Popultion growth rate (U.  - urban - Computsd like groth rate of total                       ducation requires at least four years of approved primry iostructino;
population; different definitiona of urban *ras my affect eomparability of                provides general, vocational or t acher tr.ining instrustion  for pupils
dats among countries.                                                                      of 12 to 17 yars of age; correspondence coure  ar  generally excluded.
Urban population (2 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different             Yars of schoolina provided  firet end seond levels) - Total year  of
definition  of urbac ares may affct comprability of dta _aong countrie                    schooling; at secondary level, vocational inatruction my be partially or
cam.letely excladed.
Ama structure (porcent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),               Vocetional mrollmet t2 of secondary) - Vocational institutions includ
end ratirad (65 years and wor) as Parcentag   of mid-yer ppultion.                        technical, indutrial or other prgro;r    hicb operate independntly or as
Axe dep nd.n.y ratio - Ratio of population under 15  nd 65 and ovsr to those                deparnto of secondary institution,.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                  Adult literacy rate C7) - Literate adults (able to rd and write) as per-
E.onomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to                   centage of total  duIt population  Rgd 15 years  ad over.
the Iabor forc  in ag group of 15-64 years.
Family olenninL  - acceptors (c uslative. thou) - Cumulative number of acceptors          Humina
of birth-control devicas under auspices of national f_ily planning progro               Pereona Pe. room (urben) - Average nvber of persona per room in occupied
since i-ccption.                                                                          conventional dellings in urban ar.a.; dlisneS r  lud  n              n
Family pIannIng -, users C2 of mrried womn) - Pere nteges of  arrid women of                structure. and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing ag  (15-44 yeara) who use birth-control device  to a11 mrriad             Occupied dellinrs without piped water (2) - Occupied cone ntional dwllings
women it same ege group.                                                                  in urban and rural ara. without inside or outaide piped water facilitlee
nt gs percentage of all orcupied dwellings.
Eplony-nt                                                                                  Acces  to electricity r2 of a11 dv llins) - Conventional dwellings with
Totel labor force (thousand) - Economically active persona, including armed                 electricity in living quarters a percent of total dwellings in urban and
forces and unesployed but excluding housnwives, students, etc.; definitions               rural areas.
it osriocs countriear  not cnaparable.                                                  Rural dwellings conncted to alectricity (2) - Computed as sbo   for rural
Labor force n *grtculturs Cl) - Agricultural labor force (in formtng, forestry,              dllings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor forte.
Un.mployed (2 of labor fofte) - Ui_ployed are usally defind as persona who                Conmuasotion
are abl  nd willing to take   job, out of a Job on a given day, rained out              Radio ree.Ivrs (pr thou pop) - All type  of recivers for radio br-ad.e.ts
of . job, ond asking work for a specified  inimom period not exceeding one                to general pblic per thousand of popultion; .elode  n-Ucaeesd receivers
week; my  not be coparable betwn countries due to different definitions                    in countries and in years whn registration of radio  sts was in effect
of unployed and oure. of data, e.g., _mploy t office at-tiatica,  -pl                     dta for recent year my not be comparble sinc-           t countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unmploymnt insurance.                                                  licensing.
Pesnsr.tars- Cos thou pop) - Pass.enger cars comprise motor cars, seating
Inc1-   distribution - Percentage of private income (both in c_h  nd kind)                  lon         i then eight perso; ec;ud- es bulono., hearses end military
received by richest 5%, richest 207, poorest 20X, and poorest 40X of hous-                vhiels.u
holds.                                                                                  Electricity (kbh/yr Per cap) - Annual consumption of Industrial, cercial.
publie sod privat electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of land o rship - Percentages of land own-d by walthiest 10X.                   based on production data, without alOwace for lneas  in grids but sIlov-
end poorest 10X of land owners.                                                            ing for import  nd   ports of slsctricity.
Health end N.trition                                                                      Newprint (ka/yr oar cap) - Per capit annu I  masption  in kilogr_m
bald and Nutrition                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~estimated from  dommatit production plus net imports of newsprint.
Pooplation par physici.n - Popul.tion divided by number of procticing
phbyicisns qualified fro- a   dical *chool at univ-rsity lev-e.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVE.OFMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976   35 150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77,  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (N. ooostant prices)
USS Bln.       9                                               1960/61-1964/65      1965/66-1969/70      1970/71-1975/76
GNP at Market Prices             s6.04      100.0                                                   3.9                  3.8                  2.9
Gross Domestic Investment        16.62       19.3
Gross National Saving            18.18       21.1
Current Aocount Balance           1.56        1.8
Resource Gap                      0.95        1.1
OUrPPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVTfl IN 1975/76
Value Added (at faotgE  ooet)           labr Forot                  V A. Per Worker
US3 n.               b                  a.                          U      b of NatiMrl Avera.e
Agriculture                      30.2                43                179.0       69                169          63
Industry                         16.7               24                  33.9       13               494          193
Services                         23.4               33                  4S..0      18               488          133
Total/average                    70.3               100                261        100                277         100
GOVERNMN  FINANCE
General Government _                                               Central Governsent
(Rs. Blrn)              of GIR   Bln                                                    I of GDP
ig76/77       1976 77    1974/75-1976/77                          1976 77       1976777    1974/75-1976/77
Current Receipts                   147.46         19.1            17.9                                83.78          10.9           10.4
Current Expenditures              11.2                            16.2                                84.25          10.9           9.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              7.28          0.9             1.7                               - 0.47            -            0.8
Capital Expenditures .2/            59.05          7.6             7.1                                40.39           5.2           5.0
External Assistance (net)           11.21          1.5             1.7                                11.21           1.5           1.7
MONEY, CBEDIT AND PRICI           1970/71     191Z/I       1973/74     1974/7S      1975        1976/77      September 1976      September 1977
TBillion Rs outstandirg at end of period)
Money and Quasi Monry              105.7       142.2        169.0       186.9        215.0       262.6            238.2             284.8
Bank Credit to Pnblic Sector(netj  56.9         82.5         92.9       102.6        109.1       117.3            112.7             130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector       56.7        76.0         90.1       109.5        127.5       161.0            144.0             170.0
(Peroentage or Index Numbers)                            Jsnuary 1977        January 1978
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP  24.3         27.3         26.4        25-5         27.6        31.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                 100.0       116.2        139-7       174-9       173.0        176.6           178.8              183.3
Annual percentage changes ins
Wholesale Prioe Index                7.7        10.0         20.2        25.2         -1.1         2.1             7.5                2.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  8.6         19.6         12.6        10.4         6.3          7.5             4.711             15.8 11
Bank Credit to Private Sector       17.3        18.0         18.5        21.5         16.4        26.3            24.9 1/ 11.9B
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at market prioee, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other oonversions to dollars in this table are at the averaee exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
/ Quick Estimates.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/  All loans and advanoes to third parties have been netted out.
N/ oet bank credit to Government Sector.
g/ Bank credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 4
161C  0o  P19S IS74/75                              12z5L - 1 2ZL6               1977.isiiti                                    W si  (Am                -
Maports of Goods                        4,174         4,665         5,760          6,400              Comin    ood..                          515     tt
Imports of Goods                       -5,665        -6,004        -3,950        -6,600                            Suer                       379             8
Trade bisool                           -1,491        -1,419           Ig9        -  200                            Tun                        296            6
MIS  (nat)                                215           310          4U5            500                            Juto bmsfstureo            294             6
Leather and Leather
hRn Cu                                 -1,278        -1,1O9           215           300                                    Prodsts            268             5
Clothing                  257             5
Interest  neuma (not) 1-  198                       -  216         -  135        -  130                           iCotrs                      238             5
Othe Pstor Payments (owt)                  -             -             -                                           Cotton Textilee            225             5
Nt Transfers   /                          257           470           730          1,000                                                     .gh
totwl                    4886           100
Balane ConOTOOt a  OeCount             -1,217       -  855            810         1,170
Official Aid                                                                                                        WAMUL    1. 1I3aC  51. 1977
DibrsmtJ                            1,761         2,341        1,953          1,840                                                                 d BillicL
1--tisation                          -515         -531          -569         - 630                             Outandig aad DisLbind                    13.6
Transactions with ThP                      522          242         -536          - 330                            Vd                                        3.2
All Other Itm                            -569          -403         -292              23                           Outetanding,inaluding Undisbursed        16.8
Inoro"o in Reserves  -)                    38          -794       -1,575         -2,073                            DM  BUMIl  RATIO FOR 1976/77            14.4   peroent /9l
Gross Raservm  (md year)                 1,378        2,172        5,747          5,820
Net Heserv  (end year) I&I                758         1,365        5,276          5,670                            IN/WIo  LMMIC. Deceber 51. 1977  (usl lin.)
P1el and Related Material                                                                                                                              ND        -B&
Imports                                 1,451         1,417        1,580        1,800                              Outstading  nod  ibursed         489.0      3,560.5
of which, Petroleuz                  1,451        1,417         1,580        1,800                              Undiebursed                      674.9      1,257.0
Outstanding. including
Erports                                     26           43           37         n..                                   Undisbured                1165.9       4,817.5
Of .51ich1  Petroleus                   17            22           21         0. S
1671 07? EXCHANE
Prior to  id-Deosoeber 1971        U 11.00 5 Re 7.5                                                                After end Jun. 1972    *   Floating Rats
Re 1.00 =lS50.153355                                                            Spot Rate Jazra  51, 1971
Mid6-Deuber 1971 to           ,   1S3I1.00 oR- 7.27927                                                                       appror. 038100 * Bs 8.063
end June 1972                   Rs 1.00 = llS0.137376                                                                      approx. As 1.00 * JSSO124
i/1ati'ated.
4/ Figure  given cover all investment income (net). major paysent, are interest on reigu loans  aNd
ohargee paid to Il, and major reoeipt is interest earned o foreign assets.
J/  Figures given inolude workers' remittsnoes but exclude official grant assistanoe, wbioh is inluded
within official sid disbur.eawnts.
,     o/ luolodes net  so of    credit.
A nartisation and lnterest paymnts on foreign Icans as a percentage of merchandise eports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of May 31, 1978)
U5$ Millionl/
Loan or                                                                                        (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No.        Year       Borrower               Purpose                            Bank        IDA       Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                           1,100.6
51 Credits fully disbursed                                                                       2,604.6
267-IN            1971        India      Wheat Storage                                 --            5.0          3.3
294-IN            1972        India      Bihar Agricultural Markets                    --           14.0          8.8
312-IN            1972       India       Population                                    --           21.2          5.7
342-IN            1972        India      Education                                     --           12.0          8.9
356-IN            1972        India      IDBI                                          --           25.0         10.3
377-IN            1973        India      Power Transmission III                        --           85.0          1.5
378-IN            1973        India      Mysore Agricultural Markets                   --            8.0          6.9
902-IN            1973        ICICI      Industry DPC X                                66.5         --            4.8
390-IN            1973        India      Bombay Water Supply                           --           55.0         24.4
403-IN            1973        India      Telecommunications V                          --           80.0          3.4
427-IN            1973        India      Calcutta Urban Development                    --           35.0          9.2
440-IN            1973        India      Bihar Agricultural Credit                     --           32.0         13.7
456-IN            1974        India      hP Apple Processing & Marketing               --           13.0          9.9
481-IN            1974        India      Trombay IV                                    --           50.0         10.9
1011-IN            1974        India      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                       52.0         --           33.9
482-IN            1974        India      Karnataka Dairy                               --           30.0         25.9
502-IN            1974        India      Rajasthan Canal CAD                           --           83.0         48.9
520-IN            1974        India      Sindri Fertilizer                             --           91.0         13.6
521-IN            1974        India      Rajasthan Dairy                               --           27.7         25.2
522-IN            1974        India      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                          --           16.4         13.9
526-IN            1975        India      Drought Prone Areas                           --           35.0         22.8
1079-IN            1975        IFFCO      IFFCO Fertilizer                             109.0         --           61.6
1097-IN            1975        ICICI       Industry DFC XI                             100.0         --           24.0
532-IN            1975        India      Godavari Barrage Irrigation                   --           45.0         22.2
541-IN            1975        India      West Bengal Agricultural Development          --           34.0         24.8
562-IN            1975        India      Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                  --           24.0         17.4
572-IN            1975        India      Rural Electrification                         --           57.0         45.3
582-IN            1975        India      Railways XIII                                 --          110.0         11.5
585-IN            1975        India      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                    --           40.0         35.8
598-IN            1975        India      Fertilizer Industry                           --          105.0         87.4
604-IN            1976        India      Power Transmission IV                         --          150.0        140.3
609-IN            1976        India      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                  --            4.0          3.6
610-IN            1976        India      Integrated Cotton Development                 --           18.0         17.7
616-IN            1976        India      Industrial Imports XI                         --          200.0          0.6
1251-IN(TW)        1976        India      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                    145.0         --          140.3
1260-IN            1976        India       IDBI II                                      40.0         --           36.4
1273-IN            1976        India      National Seed                                 25.0         --           25.0
1313-IN            1976        India      Telecommunications VI                         80.0         __           32.3
1335-IN            1976        BMRDA      Bombay Urban Transport                        25.0         --           20.5
680-IN            1977        India      Kerala Agricultural Development               --           30.0         30.0
682-IN            1977        India      Orissa Agricultural Development               --           20.0         19.8
685-IN            1977        India      Singrauli Thermal Power                       --          150.0        137.0
687-IN            1977        India      Madras Urban Development                      --           24.0         23.4
695-IN            1977        India      Gujarat Fisheries                             --            4.0          4.0
1394-IN(TW)        1977        India       Gujarat Fisheries                            14.0         --           14.0
690-IN            1977        India      West Bengal Agricultural Developnent          --           12.0         12.0
712-IN            1977        India      Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development   --               10.0         10.0
715-IN            1977        India       Second ARDC Credit                           --          200.0        159.1
720-IN            1977        India      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                     --           23.0         22.8
728-IN            1977        India      Assam Agricultural Development                --            8.0          8.0
1473-IN            1977        India       Bombay high Offshore Development            150.0         --           95.6
736-IN            1977        India      Maharashtra Irrigation                        --           70.0         70.0
737-IN            1977        India      Rajasthan Agricultural Extension              --           13.0         13.0
740-IN            1977        India      Orissa Irrigation                             --           58.0         58.0
1475-IN            1977        ICICI       Industry DFC XII                             80.0         --           77.9
747-IN            1978        India       Second Foodgrain Storage                     --          107.0        107.0
756-IN            1978        India       Second Calcutta Urban Development            --           87.0         87.0
761-IN            197B        India      Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research   --                8.0          8.0
1511-IN            1978        India       IDBI Joint/Public Sector                     25.0         --           25.0
1549-IN*           1978        TEC         Third Trombay Thermal Power                 105.0         --          105.0
788-IN            197B        India      Karnataka Irrigation                          --          126.0        126.0
793-IN*           197B        India      Korba Thermal Power                           --          200.0        200.0
806-IN*           1978        India       Jammu-Kashmir horticulture                   --           14.0         14.0
808-IN            1978        India       Gujarat Irrigation                           --           85.0         85.0
815-IN*           1978        India       Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                     --           17.5          17.5
816-IN*           1978        India       Second National Seed                         --           16.0          16.0
Total                                                             2,117.1      5,392.4
of which has been repaid                                          863.2         37.6
Total now outstanding                                             1,253.9      5,354.8
Amount Sold                             133.3
of which has been repaid             111.5                         21.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                    1,232.1      5,354.8
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                     591.3      1,645.1
*  Not yet effective.                                                                           July 1978
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -           1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964         Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8        1.0       12.8
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976         Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978         Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                 4.0        1.2        5.2
TOTAL                                53.6       10.0       63.6
Less:  Sold                                   6.0        1.6        7.6
Repaid                               14.5         -        14.5
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             26.9        7.7       34.6
Undisbursed                           6.5        1.2        7.7



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,236 million
as of May 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date:  July 1, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loans
902-IN and 1097-IN are fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of
schedule. Disbursements under Loan 1475-IN (US$2.1 million) are also ahead of
schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
This Credit was originally intended to provide three years'
support for a lending program for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower-than-
estimated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs com-
pared with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date and
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
and to extend the project area to cover the whole State of Bihar. Disburse-
ments are expected to accelerate, and the physical targets should be achieved
by the revised closing date.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
This project is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. As of May 31, 1978, disbursements amounted to about
US$41 million, of which some 87% have been for minor irrigation and 13% for
diversified lending. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%. Training
programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing satisfactor-
ily. Preparation of a third line of credit is underway and the preparation
report is expected to be submitted to the Association by September 1978.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267-IN, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for Credit 747-IN, which is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote oak
mushroom production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 of the 10 packing and grad-
ing sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and the equipment is being ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million cildit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403-IN was extended by one year to cover the delivery and installation
of imported transmission and switching equipment. Disbursements under Loan
1313-IN reached US$47.7 million as of May 31, 1978.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377-IN was slow initially and as a consequence
it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date by one year. However, an
amount of US$83.5 million had been disbursed by the end of May 1978 and the
balance should be disbursed well before the revised Closing Date. Disburse-
ments under Credit 604-IN have been slow, with only US$9.7 million disbursed
at May 31, 1978. However, contracts aggregating about US$50 million had
been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements should now accelerate. This
Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million to meet increased
costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; all but US$4 million of
this amount has also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily. Mechanical completion of the
entire plant should result in August 1979. Credit 598-IN is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
March 1978, appraisals had been completed for 50, and loans approved for 47
markets. Construction had been completed for 16 and was in progress for 23
markets. Farmers and traders served by the 8 market yards now in operation
report more efficient marketing activities and improved farmers' terms of
trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is improving. As of June 1977,
when the project was last reviewed, construction was underway for 36 of the
39 project markets. Plans and land acquisition are nearing completion at
the remaining sites. Both projects are expected to be completed by their
respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. An initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements, which have been slow because of initial delays, should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed, and disbursements had reached US$14.7 million
by the end of May 1978. In order to continue the Bank Group's involvement in
assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the State
Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260-IN) was approved
in 1976, and more than 25% of the loan amount had been committed by mid-March
1978. Loan 1511-IN is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of the major



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and it is forecast
that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of additional
water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of water treatment
works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically forecast.
Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has allowed
engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so that
completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for 1980, two years
later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the project entity
is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund picked up in 1978
and it is anticipated that the project will close on schedule at the end
of June 1978.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by March 1979. Credit 756-IN
is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's administra-
tive authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to rehabilitate
and extend its urban service system.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of thc city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits, totalling US$74.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 600 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 310 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 450 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements stood at US$22.8 million on May 31, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; (expected) Effective Date: August 12, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$13.0
million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects, totalling US$71 million, finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The projects' components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would, also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Project consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production of steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year in
order to complete implementation of the project. Disbursements as of May 31,
1978 were 90% of the total credit amount.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound rescurce base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan 1273-IN supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now being made since endorsement of the project by the
new Government in September 1977 and is expected to gain further momentum
as GOI has filled the two top posts of the National Seeds Corporation, which
were vacant for several months and adversely affected the project. A project
supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit 816-IN)
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 30, 1978, but has not yet been
signed pending receipt of signing authority from one of the project states.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single deck and 175 double
deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have been delivered. Bids for
an additional 200 buses are being evaluated. Civil works contracts have been
awarded for 8 bus facilities, and 13 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are
expected in implementing some BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST
workshop schemes although steps are being taken to minimize such delays.
Consultants in organization, administration, financial management systems,
accounting and development planning are at work assisting the Borrower, the
Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority. Other beneficiaries of
the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and
Transport Undertaking, have selected consultants in traffic engineering and
operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; (expected) Effective Date: August 14, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Ln. No. 1549   Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; (expected) Effective Date: September 19, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Credit 685-IN assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid.  The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793-IN. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbogenerators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549-IN is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements stood at US$54.4 million on May 31, 1978.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project.
This project is the second Bank lending operation to
the water supply and sewerage sector in Bombay. Both
projects have their foundation in a consultants' report
issued in 1971; thus, preparation of the present proj-
ect was part of a continuing process.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project.
Bombay Municipal Corporation/Water Supply and Sewerage
Department.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the
first mission to consider the project.
Project proposed in May, 1977. Identification
mission visited Bombay in August, 1977.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission.
January 5, 1978.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations.
June 27, 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
October 30, 1978.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOM to construct Bhatsai dam and to provide water from
Bhatsai reservoir to BMC (para 51);
(b) BMC to give IDA opportunity to comment on bulk supply
contracts (para 51);
(c) BMC to adopt agreed programs for detection of system
losses, for mains repair, and for metering (para 51);
(d) BMC to appoint engineering consultants as a condition
of credit effectiveness (para 52);
(e) BMC to repay funds owed to WSSD (para 57);
(f) BMC to meet at least 40% of WSSD capital expenditures
from internal cash generation (para 58);
(g) BMC to submit WSSD's annual investment plan to IDA
(para 58);
(h) BMC to pay interest on all cash balances collected
for WSSD (para 60); and
(i) BMC to establish separate insurance funds (para 60).



IBRD 13372-
3         7                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1978
-a                                             -Is"  'A-'vn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ax
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NI
C                                        dLpnHr~~ ~ ANDBMA                   WAE SUPYAD EERG                                            POJC
C                    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Ri'                 n-o>,-            -~~~~~Tl
-  C'" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ramn    oksaAPriI   tt-
-       _                                   INDIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tr.-               rk,ad  upC   S.,.
'2                                                               /           lP,rn/t~A                                Power Siotr              A                                             ExpOT-C
_                                      "-'                               0           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  ..se~db TreansTmnt ork Wand PSmpiny  Stat-(Ions
IC                                                                                  nOl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BCSupy Ane
7~~~  Bvl-'~~~~~~-drrd I~~~~ ~                                                                                                                    Bh.ts>i          CmMain PipeSFires
Ala CaIS                           A ==/   IDC  Area on
*  i'7U'\"     I                               /1'                                   Zone~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lmi seroRdb.y Teropo-Thana  ae R Appiy- peeIC
Corirri Cake Cm50,    FAmpAg'1                    C-)~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~W-.f..l oudaie
A9ra PaAd YOia  /7                  C-  ~~    (7> i7                                                       ZonH served    Bonsai WatHr          SoDamn
> ~ ~     ~   ~     7                                                   a   r   A yV<                              r   m        /                  <    i    - > ynCb                                                         o p y(           I S
I  4a-   >  A-     u.       (7t54O37A                                       SMC  Sopply~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" Area,1   2
-            'A                        xxi                             K -       Bhatsai Irrigation Conrrn~~~~~~~~~~~~"OaaTAReaS tg 
BImkserdi  Coalmi  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i/< ~~~~~' ->  >    '<'  'C' ~ ~ ~ ~         ~         ~        ~         ~       ~       y1,
Work   I                 yp F                                                J'~~~~~~~~~~*fl  MIDC Irdootnial Area~~~~~~~~~~~MLE
7~~~~~~~~~~~~g"--'                                                          -                                                                  -L-/70CAe
L V -'- - .  /    Ir~~~r s n r'''   7 M rasrorn m                'C    v~~~~-~                                                                      Roads
nr{  ~~~~~~~~'A MIm~~~~~~  /         't               V                                                                                 -r----a--- Railways~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q
C"  -  Cant  Ij                   4                Nt"  C'                                                                        - --- - Limit of Greater Bombay~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C N 
BOA4,/                                                                                         l ~ /'             r                                                                     ii  fBma    erpitnRgo
7                                          -Dams~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ND           
a  /                      t    "IT (->A                                                                       Internatiaval Bo,indarins~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RM
A-  ix~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o'~,AAH~
a ,  O4#   /  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~     /~~V                                                   -  ,
a   r   /  /  SM                Ii            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.p..P
/                                                                           C       A      10      15      '0      25      300



