Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                  E         O
Report No. 19 70b-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
July 5, 1978
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US#1.00      =   Rs- 8.6
Rs 1.00      =   US$0.12
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm          =  millimeter (0.04 miles)
cm          -  centimeter (0.39 miles)
m           -  meter (39.37 inches or 3.28 ft.)
km          -  kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha          =  hectare (10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres)
sq.k        =  square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
1           =  liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lpcd        =  liters per capita per day
cu.m        =  cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
ml          =  million liters or 1,000 cubic meters
mld         =  million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial gallons
per day or 0.264 million US gallons per day)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI         =  Government of India
GOM         =  Government of Maharashtra
BMC         =  Bombay Municipal Corporation (or Municipal Corporation
of Greater Bombay)
BMR         =  Bombay Metropolitan Region
BMRDA       =  Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
BEST        =  Bombay Electricity Supply and Transport Authority
DMC(SE)     =  Deputy Municipal Commissioner (Special Engineering)
WSSD        -  Water Supply and Sewerage Department of BMC
WHO         =  World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April 1 - March 31
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission consisting of
Messrs. P. H. Ware, B. C. Davis, J. Bharier and K. G. Jechoutek who
visited Bombay on various dates between November 1977 and January 1978.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.     THE  WATER  SUPPLY AND  SEWERAGE  SECTOR  ..................                             I
National  Sector Organization  and Development  ......1.... 
The  State  of Maharashtra  ............................. .                              2
Bombay Metropolitan Region ..... ..............                                          3
Greater  Bombay,  The  Project  Area  ....                  ..................           4
Background  .......................................                              4
Level  of Water  Service  ...........................                             4
Level  of  Sewerage  Service  ........................                            5
Investment  Levels  ................................                             6
II.    THE  BORROWER AND  THE  BENEFICIARY  ......................                                7
Organizational  Structure  ............................. .                               7
Management  and  Staffing  .............................. .                              7
Training             ....................................                                8
Management  Systems  ................................... .                               8
Finances             ....................................                                9
Audit              ....................................                                  9
Insurance           .......................          ......................            10
III.     POPULATION,  WATER  CONSUMPTION  AND  SEWERAGE
SERVICE  DEMAND  ........................................                              11
Population  Forecasts  ...............               ..       .................        11
Water  Demand  and  Consumption  ............               ..      ............       11
Composition  of Water  Consumption  .........                ..      ...........       12
Demand  for Access  to  the  Sewerage  Service  ....... ......                          14
IV.     THE  PROGRAM AND  THE  PROJECT  ...........................                             15
Scope  and Objectives  ...............               ..      .................         15
The  Water  Supply  and  Sewerage  Program  ....... ..                  ........       16
The  Project  Description  ..............              ..      ...............         16
Water  Supply  .....................................                            17
Sewage  Collection  ................................                            17
Sewage  Treatment  and  Disposal  ....................                          17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
Least-Cost   Solutions   ..................................                                                         19
Cost Estimates .............                                                                                        19
Proposed  Amount   of   IDA  Credit   .........................                                                     21
Project Design,  Construction and Supervision ....                                                ......            21
Implementation   Schedule   ...............................                                                         21
Procurement   ...........................................                                                           22
Land  Acquisition   and  Way  Leaves   .......................                                                      23
Disbursements   ........................................                                                            23
Environmental   Health   Impact   ...........................                                                       23
V.       FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS   ....................................                                                           25
Past   Financial   Performance   ............................                                                       25
Present   Financial   Position   ............................                                                       27
Asset   Revaluation   .....................................                                                         28
Receivables   ...........................................                                                           28
Financing  Plan   ........................................                                                          28
Tariffs   ...............................................                                                           30
Future   Finances   .......................................                                                         31
VI.        JUSTIFICATION   .........................................                                                            32
Background   ............................................                                                           32
Impact   on  the  Urban  Poor   ..............................                                                      32
Impact   on  Health   ......................................                                                        33
Economic   Rate   of  Return   ...............................                                                      33
Marginal   Cost   and  Tariffs   .............................                                                      34
Affordability   .........................................                                                           36
VII.         SUMMARY  OF  AGREEMENTS   .................................                                                         38
ANNEXES
1. Project Description .......................                                                                                      40
2.    Detailed   Project   Cost  Estimates   ............................                                                           50
3.   Engineering Design and Construction Schedule  ....                                                     ...........             53
4.     Organization   Chart   .........................................                                                             54
5.     Income   Statement   ...........................................                                                             55
6.     Flow  of  Funds   Statement   ....................................                                                           56
7.     Balance   Sheets   ...........                      .         ..................................                             57
8.     Notes   on  Financial   Projections   .............................                                                          58
9.    Tariff  Table   ...............................................                                                               61
10.      Estimated   Schedule   of  Disbursements   ........................                                                          62
11.      Monitoring   Indicators   ......................................                                                             63
12.  Related Documents and Data Available in a Project File .....                                                                     64



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
MAPS
IBRD 13372   Regional Water Resources and BMC Treatment and
Transmission Facilities
IBRD 13373   Hours of Water Supply 1977
IBRD 13374   Hours of Water Supply 1979
IBRD 13375   Hours of Water Supply 1984
IBRD 13376   Sewage Collection and Disposal System






INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
National Sector Organization and Development
1.01      While the Central Government exercises considerable influence
on the sector, State Governments in India have primary responsibility for
development of water supply and sewerage facilities. They execute their
responsibilities through various departments of government and agencies
which, in turn, may delegate part or all of their duties to local authori-
ties. In certain cases, legislation has been enacted to permit municipal
authorities, or other agencies, to assume the entire responsibility for
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of water supply
and sewerage services within their jurisdictions.
1.02      Since the early 1950s, State Governments have endeavored to meet
the increasing sector demands caused by rapidly expanding populations and
unprecedented rates of urban growth. However, competing demands for re-
sources by other sectors, lack of management and planning skills, shortages
of key materials and equipment, as well as foreign exchange constraints, have
resulted in only 1 to 2% of public expenditures being invested in the sector.
This has led to inadequate levels of water supply and sewerage services. In
1975 it was estimated 1/ that in India only 193 million people, or 31% of the
total population of 620 million, had access to reasonably safe drinking water
and that only 125 million (20%) had acceptable means of disposing of sewage.
These levels are lower than average levels for all developing countries, in
which water and waste disposal services reach 38% and 33% of the population
respectively. In these countries, it now appears that, in the period 1971
to 1976, global progress in the sector kept pace with population growth and
during the same period, access to water and sewerage services slightly
improved. In India, while some improvement in the water supply service was
achieved, the percentage of the population receiving waste disposal services
actually declined.
1.03      It is estimated 2/ that investments in developing countries of the
order of four times the 1971-1975 levels (in 1977 US$) will be necessary if
the target for developing countries of 100% of population served by 1990 is
to be achieved. For urban water supply and sewerage in India, the investment
target in the period FY75 through FY79 was some Rs 1,100 million (US$128
1/   World Health Organization, Community Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal,
Mid-Decade Progress Report, May 1976.
2/   Report on Community Water Supplies, United Nations Water Conference,
Mar del Plata, Argentina, 14-25 March 1977.



- 2 -
million) per year, about 1.5% of the total plan investment; investment in the
rural sector in the same period was Rs 750 million (US$87 million) which was
1.0% of the total plan investment. Much higher investment levels will be
necessary if significant progress towards 1990 targets is to be seriously
attempted. Rapid urbanization in India's four largest metropolitan areas
of Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras has created a particularly urgent need
to strengthen the water supply and sewerage systems serving these areas.
Existing organizational and technical resources would permit much higher
levels of investment to hasten the provision of services to a larger popula-
tion. However, the provision of operation and maintenance facilities for
urban water and sewerage systems presents a more serious challenge to Central,
State and local government institutions.
The State of Maharashtra
1.04      The project serves the Greater Bombay area, which is part of the
Bombay Metropolitan Region in the State of Maharashtra. Maharashtra is the
third largest state in India, having an area of 306,000 square kilometers
and an estimated (1977) population of some 59.3 million, which is almost 10%
of India's total population. Bombay is the state capital and the largest
industrial center. The urban population of the State, excluding Bombay's
7.6 million, is 11.3 million located in some 226 urban communities; the rural
population is 40.4 million.
1.05      Since 1975 sector development in the State of Maharashtra has been
largely the responsibility of the Environmental Engineering Organization, a
State Government agency, which has the declared objective of providing safe
water and waste disposal services to achieve and maintain a cleaner environ-
ment.  It undertakes planning, implementation, operation and maintenance of
most rural water supply projects as well as planning and implementation of
municipal water supply and sewerage projects, which are partly financed by
municipalities and partly by Government; such projects are normally operated
and maintained by the municipalities concerned. The Municipal Corporation
of Greater Bombay (BMC) and several other large municipal corporations are
responsible for planning, implementation, operation and maintenance of water
and sewerage services within their jurisdictions.
1.06      In January 1977 the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board
was formed. The Government of Maharashtra (GOM) considered that such an
entity could effectively "provide rapid development and proper regulation
of water supply and sewerage services in the State of Maharashtra." For
the moment the Board is only acting as a financing channel, raising funds by
borrowing from local financing institutions and on the open market. However,
GOM is aware of the need to strengthen the Board and proposes to do so prior
to the Association's possible participation in the Maharashtra water supply
and sewerage project, which is now under preparation.
1/   Report on Community Water Supplies, United Nations Water Conference,
Mar del Plata, Argentina, 14-25 March 1977.



- 3 -
1.07      GOM estimates that (excluding Bombay) 10.5 million people in about
190 urban communities have access to piped water, although many of the sup-
plies are inadequate and of questionable quality. The present level of sewer-
age services to urban communities is lower than that of water supply. Only
11 communities (excluding Bombay) have water-borne sanitation serving about
4 million people; however, under current GOM proposals 0.5 million more urban
people should have access to acceptable forms of sanitation by the year 1980.
The remainder of the population depends on wells for water supply and conserv-
ancy systems for waste collection and disposal.
1.08      Some 27 million people or 66% of the rural population in the State
have access to wholesome water. The Government aims to raise this level to
76% by 1980 by providing piped water supplies for some 1,000 villages, with
a total population of about 4 million, primarily by developing groundwater
sources. No specific sanitation program has been formulated for rural areas.
1.09      Investment in the State water supply and sewerage program (exclud-
ing investment in the BMC systems), amounted to about Rs 75 million (US$8.8
million) in each of the financial years 1976-7 and 1977-8, which was less than
2% of the State's total budget. Some Rs 39 million and 1.7 million (US$4.5
and US$0.2 million) were allocated to urban and rural areas, respectively, and
about Rs 35 million (US$4.1 million) to continuing construction of the Bhatsai
dam which will be used for supplying water to Bombay and for irrigation.
Bombay Metropolitan Region
1.10      The Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (BMRDA)
was established by the Government of Maharashtra in 1975 to coordinate the
activities of local bodies within the Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMR) and
to promote regional investment planning in such sectors as urban renewal,
transportation, communications and water resources management. BMR comprises
an area of 4,350 square kilometers (1,700 square miles, about one-sixth of
the area of the State of Maryland) and includes the Municipal Corporation
of Greater Bombay, 13 Municipal Councils and some 1,500 villages. The 1971
census population of BMR was 7.8 million, of which 6.7 million were desig-
nated as urban.
1.11      One of the initial concepts of BMRDA was that it should fulfill a
need--recognized during engineering studies for the first IDA-assisted pro-
ject in Bombay--for an appropriate authority to control and allocate water
resources in the region, since previous planning in this respect had been
uncoordinated and development somewhat random. It has recently completed a
water resources study for BMR and is currently coordinating the preparation
of a regional water supply and sewerage project for six towns and adjacent
villages. The water resources study is satisfactory and the proposed project
is consistent with its recommendations.



- 4-
Greater Bombay, The Project Area
Background
1.12      Bombay is the capital city of Maharashtra State and the second
largest city in India having a (1977) population of 7.6 million. Bombay
is also the largest port and industrial center, accounting for some 30% of
India's industrial production. Extension of the original Bombay City limits
in 1951 and 1958, to include areas designated as the "Suburbs" and "Extended
Suburbs", created the Greater Bombay area of 440 square kilometers, which
is administered by BMC. In 1973 the Association approved a credit towards
financing the first Bombay water supply and sewerage project (IDA Credit
390-IN) which is now under implementation. References to this first project
and to its progress are made in appropriate sections throughout this report.
1.13      Until about 1941 investment in water supply kept pace with demand,
although sewerage services, particularly sewage disposal, received low prior-
ity. The accumulated back-log of work since 1941, rapid population increase
and continued insufficient investments in the sector have resulted in an
extremely low level of water services, complete neglect of sewage disposal
requirements and a water-borne sewage collection system which inadequately
serves the city center and part of the suburbs. The first Bombay water sup-
ply and sewerage project (IDA Credit 390-IN) marks the beginning of an attempt
to reverse the trend (paragraph 4.02), and the proposed project is a logical
next step in that direction.
Level of Water Service
1.14      The existing water supply service of Greater Bombay is illustrated
in Map IBRD 13372. BMC owns the small Vihar and Tulsi reservoirs, which
are within the municipal area, as well as the Tansa and Vaitarna sources.
GOM supplies water to Bombay from the Ulhas river and from the Upper Vaitarna
reservoirs. Supply from a further GOM source, the Bhatsai reservoir (first
stage) will become available during the last quarter of 1978.
1.15      The estimated present (1977) yield from the existing sources is
1,600 million liters per day (mld) of which 955 mld is available for dis-
tribution to 7.6 million domestic consumers after allocations to industry,
commerce, areas on the route of major conduits and after allowances for
transmission and distribution losses (paragraph 3.05 and Table 3.2). The
resulting average availability of water of about 125 liters per capita per
day (lpcd) is much less than the average demand and the supply is therefore
limited to between 2 and 8 hours per day depending on location (see para
3.08).
1.16      The quality of water is unsatisfactory since the only form of
treatment--pending completion of the ongoing project in 1979--is chlorination,
which is ineffective during periods of high water turbidity. Even this low
level of supply of doubtful quality water can only be maintained during years



-5-
of normal rainfall. Failure or partial failure of the monsoon in India is a
cyclical event rather than a rare phenomenon; recent occurrences (1966 and
1972) caused drastic curtailment of the already restricted hours of supply and
serious interruption of industrial activity as well as severe hardship to the
people.
The Level of Sewerage Service
1.17      The level of sewerage service is below that of the water supply
measured in terms of the population served, the percentage of the city and
suburban areas sewered, the capacity of the existing sewage collection and
conveyance system and the effectiveness of sewage treatment and disposal
facilities. Almost the whole of the city area, as distinct from the suburbs,
has access to sewers; about 44% of the total project area is served by sewers.
There are no satisfactory alternatives to providing water-borne sewerage in
the city and suburban areas (paragraph 3.09).
1.18      The effectiveness of the existing sewerage system is limited by
its inadequate capacity as well as the age and obsolescence of some of its
components. These factors combine to produce the following conditions:
(a) although the older city (d6wntown) area is fully sewered,
the system is too small for modern-day flows and has
therefore been connected to surface water drains to main-
tain the semblance of a service; monsoon rains then force
mixed sewage and storm flows into the streets; many sewers
are also subject to high infiltration of groundwater,
although constant surcharging prevents meaningful analysis
of their condition;
(b) many of the 25 sewage lift stations in the city area (ex-
cluding suburbs) are of inadequate capacity, most are old
(constructed before 1905) and wasteful of energy;
(c) sewage treatment facilities have not been expanded to cope
with increasing loads or renovated over the years; deter-
ioration at most plants prevents continuous operation and
frequent discharges of untreated sewage results; of eight
existing treatment plants, only one produces an acceptable
effluent;
(d) since sewage treatment is negligible, sewage from a major
part of Greater Bombay's population of 7.6 million reaches
creeks, inland waterways and beaches in an untreated,
partially decomposed form;
(e) gross pollution of Mahim Creek, Mahim Bay and the sea near
Lovegrove pumping station is evident, and is characterized
by extensive deposits of decomposing sludge and by strong
odors.



-6-
Investment Levels
1.19      Investment in water supply and sewerage amounts to about 40% of
the total investment in the public sector (1977/78) in the BMC area and has
risen in the past four years from 35% to 55% of BMC's capital budget; this
has been necessary to remedy neglect of the sector. Since operating expenses
in the sector constitute a relatively small portion (7 to 8%) of BMC's total
operating expenses, the overall share of BMC's budget allocated to the sector
is no more than 20%. A project of the type now proposed provides a substan-
tial portion of the basic needs of a very large urban area and seeks to
retrieve some of the lost ground caused by long neglect of essential services.
Substantial investment in capital works is necessary. The needs of the urban
poor cannot be satisfied merely by providing taps, standpipes or flush la-
trines; substantial parts of the infrastructure on which these appurtenances
depend must first be enlarged, renovated, or even constructed in their entirety
from the water source or to the sewage outfall. In the case of Bombay, water
augmentation is expensive because of the remoteness of the sources of supply
and the absence of inexpensive sources such as groundwater. The comparatively
large investment in sewerage primarily reflects the long standing failure to
provide treatment or disposal facilities.



- 7 -
II. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY
A. The Borrower
2.01      In 1973 the Association approved a Credit of $55 million to GOI
towards the financing of the first Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(IDA Credit 390-IN), the cost of which is currently estimated at $272.4 mil-
lion. As with the first project, the borrower, GOI, will make available
the proceeds of the proposed credit to GOM, which will onlend it to BMC,
the beneficiary.
B. The Beneficiary
Organizational Structure
2.02      BMC, the beneficiary, was established under the Bombay Municipal
Corporation Act 1888. The council consists of 140 elected representatives
and is responsible for the provision of many local services including water
supply, sewerage and sewage disposal in Greater Bombay. BMC has been able
to maintain considerable autonomy in the provision of services by amendments
to the 1888 Act which have been effected by GOM legislative action. GOM, on
the other hand, is able to introduce legislation to control BMC activities
should this be necessary.
2.03      A separate Water Supply and Sewerage Department (WSSD) of BMC was
established in 1973 by an official order of the Municipal Commissioner and is
responsible to the Standing Committee (the principal committee of BMC), for
the planning, development, operation and maintenance of water supply, sewerage
and sewage disposal services. Previously, responsibility for these services
was divided among a number of Committees and Departments. An amendment to
the 1888 Act (BMC (Second Amendment) Act 1973) enabled the establishment of
a separate Water and Sewerage Fund and a Consolidated Loans Fund for WSSD.
Management and Staffing
2.04      The Municipal Commissioner, an officer appointed by GOM, is the
principal officer of BMC and is responsible for the management of all serv-
ices except those of the Bombay Electricity Supply and Transport Authority
(BEST). He retains overall control of WSSD, assisted by a Deputy Municipal
Commissioner, Special Engineering (DMC(SE)). The Municipal Commissioner has
traditionally been a senior civil servant from the Indian Administrative
Service with wide experience in state and local administration.
2.05      The DMC(SE) is a well qualified, experienced engineer and a capable
manager. He is assisted by a team of senior qualified engineers and by compe-
tent professional staff. Taking into account the age and condition of some



-8-
installations, the water supply and sewerage systems are generally well main-
tained. An Additional Municipal Chief Accountant is responsible to the Muni-
cipal Commissioner for the administration and finances of WSSD. This officer
is an active and competent financial administrator who has gained valuable
experience in the finances of the undertaking, having been responsible for
implementation of WSSD's new financial systems.
2.06      WSSD is organized into five separate sections (see Organization
Chart, Annex 4) for management purposes--water supply projects, sewerage pro-
jects, common service engineering (mechanical, electrical, stores, purchasing,
project monitoring and long-range planning) and hydraulic engineering, each
headed by a Chief Engineer, and finance and administration headed by the
Additional Municipal Chief Accountant. All the above officers are respon-
sible to the DMC(SE). WSSD's total manpower is 11,800, including some 500
professionals, and is expected to increase to 13,650 by 1980/81 and 15,200
by 1984/85. These increases would be reasonable in relation to the new
works that would be commissioned under the first and second projects.
2.07      Under Credit 390-IN, BMC agreed that it will (a) maintain a separate
WSSD and em'loy sufficient competent and qualified staff for efficient opera-
tion; (b) consult with the Association before making any material modifica-
tions to the structure, organization, responsibilities and technical and
financial operations of WSSD including changes in posts of the equivalent
of Deputy Chief Engineer level and above, and (c) cause WSSD to conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility
practices including the proper maintenance of its assets. These covenants
will be repeated under the proposed project.
Training
2.08      A comprehensive training program was prepared under the first
project to meet training needs at all levels in the organization. Much
has already been accomplished and the program is proceeding satisfactorily.
Training has been provided by the Indian Institute of Technology, the National
Institute for Training in Industrial Engineering and the National Productivity
Council. In addition, several senior engineering staff attended courses in
the U.K., organized by the British National Water Council, dealing with water
treatment, pumping plant and training methods; other senior engineering staff
received training from industrial firms in Europe, and financial management
training has been provided by consultants. Training of the operating and
maintenance staff employed at the pumping and treatment works, to be commis-
sioned on completion of the first project, is now proceeding as part of a
continuous training program, regarded by WSSD as normal management practice
to increase job skills and improve managerial and operating efficiency (para-
graph 4.11).
Management Systems
2.09      When WSSD was established in 1973 the need to develop a better
management information system to improve management performance in planning
and controlling financial and physical activities was recognized, and a number



-9-
of financial management (buugeting, accounting and costing) and administrative
(revenue billing, payroll, payments) systems were introduced in collaboration
with local consultants. A system of project monitoring was also developed
for the first project and has been useful to management. Approval has been
given by the Indian Electronics Commission to the acquisition of an in-house
computer which will be capable of meeting the joint needs of 3MC and BEST.
From April 1979 the computer will handle WSSD's systems at present processed
by other agencies, and a development program to extend computerization to
other WSSD systems has already been formulated. A team of BMC officers
visited Leeds City Council, United Kingdom during April 1978 to become more
closely familiarized with computerized management information and accounting
systems.
Finances
2.10      Under the first project, with assistance from local consultants,
sound progress has been made in introducing new financial and accounting
systems and a competent and conscientious staff has been recruited. WSSD
management is conscious of the need to constantly review and improve the
quality of financial management and accounting. Better budgetary control,
more extensive costing and a more objective analysis of accounting are matters
on which greater emphasis is currently being placed and which will receive
high priority for computerization. Accounting procedures will be speeded up
and an earlier closure of annual accounts should be possible. These matters
will be followed closely during supervision missions.
2.11      BMC provides, on a reimbursable basis, certain services to WSSD,
the principal of which is the billing and collection of water and sewerage
taxes, jointly with other municipal taxes, and water and sewerage charges.
While there are administrative advantages in continuing these arrangements,
there have in recent years been repeated delays in crediting revenues to the
separate WSSD account. The transfer of funds between BMC and WSSD should be
on a commercial basis. BMC has now arranged, on receipt of WSSD's revenues,
to transfer to WSSD's account sufficient cash to meet WSSD's obligations and
to invest and pay interest, currently 6%, to WSSD on any cash balance remain-
ing with BMC from time to time until required by WSSD. At negotiations an
assurance was obtained from BMC to continue these arrangements.
Audit
2.12      WSSD's accounts are audited annually by BMC's Municipal Chief
Auditor.  In recent years his reports have demonstrated a critical and con-
structive independence. His report is made to BMC but it has not been pos-
sible to forward this to the Association within six months of the year end,
as required under the first project, because of delays in completion of the
annual accounts. With improved accounting procedures (paragraph 2.10) the
annual accounts should be closed earlier. The existing covenant will there-
fore be repeated and an assurance was obtained at negotiations that BMC will
in future submit audited accounts to the Association within six months of
the end of WSSD's financial year.



10 -
Insurance
2.13      An assurance was obtained at negotiations that materials and equip-
ment for the project will be insured. All other public utility risks will
continue to be borne by internal Insurance Funds. Insurance practices were
reviewed with WSSD/BMC during appraisal. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that the existing BMC Fire/Accident and Third Party Insurance Funds
would be bifurcated between WSSD and other BMC services by March 31, 1979 and
thereafter annual contributions will be made by WSSD to separate Fire/Accident
and Third Party Insurance Funds. Principles for the administration of WSSD's
separate insurance fund were also agreed during negotiations.



- 11 -
III. POPULATION, WATER CONSUMPTION AND SEWERAGE SERVICE DEMAND
Population Forecasts
3.01      Populations which were forecast in a previous study and report 1/
for the water supply and sewerage program have been exceeded by quite a
large margin, the population of 7.6 million forecast for 1981 having been
reached in 1977. Recent population projections by government agencies are
influenced by resolutions to impose constraints on industrial and commercial
development in Bombay in an effort to restructure the regional development
pattern. These moderate population forecasts are 7.9 million in 1985 increas-
ing to 8.3, 8.7 and 9.5 million in 1991, 1995 and 2005, respectively. More
recently (November 1977) the Water Resources Management Board of BMRDA agreed
upon a more realistic 1991 population forecast of 9.3 million for water supply
purposes.
3.02      During the past five years the population of Bombay has increased
at a rate of about five percent each year to an estimated 1977 population
of 7.6 million. According to local health authorities, there is little
scope for reduction in the 1.7% natural increase of population, since any
further reductions in the birth rate due to population control programs are
likely to be small and may be offset by a lower death rate resulting from
improved health measures. Based on the experience of other countries, mea-
sures which are now being taken in Bombay to limit immigration by controlling
industrial development are likely to have an impact only in the longer term.
A reduction in net immigration from the present 3.3% to about 1.6% annually
would be the best that could be expected. Based on these assumptions, Bombay's
population in 1991 is therefore likely to range from about 11.5 million
(based on a 3.2% increase) to about 13 million (based on a 5% increase).
Water Demand and Consumption
3.03      It is probable that the main increase of population of 3 to 4 mil-
lion will be people of low income, occupying slums or single room tenements.
Residents of slums and one-room tenement buildings use less water than the
higher-income groups occupying more substantial properties in which storage
tanks and other facilities help to augment the water supply. Thus, the large
increase in population may not cause a proportionate increase in demand.
Despite this, a moderate rise in domestic use coupled with relatively low
growth of industrial demand may result in a water demand of more than 2,000
mld by 1981.
3.04      Water demands from a rapidly increasing population and from industry
and commerce outstripped the development of water resources early in the 1960s,
resulting in an intermittent supply whereby consumers receive water for only
1/   Water Supply and Sewerage for Greater Bombay by Binnie & Partners
Consulting Engineers (UK), 1971.



- 12 -
part of the day. The first project will not significantly increase the hours
of supply since the small water augmentation of 450 mld has already been over-
taken by the increase in population; it will significantly improve water
quality (paragraph 4.02). Although some slight improvement may result from
the proposed project, supplies will continue to be intermittent in the fore-
seeable future. The actual size of future populations will therefore only
affect the level of service available to consumers. This is illustrated in
Table 3.1, which shows that after the proposed project is completed the average
amount of water available per day to each person in 1991 will either decline
from the present 125 lpcd to 103 lpcd, or will rise to 144 lpcd, depending on
whether the population increases to 13 million or only 9.3 million. If the
project is not implemented, then the supply during years of normal rainfall
could decline to 75 lpcd, the lowest average level in the 120-year history of
Bombay's piped water system. The mean of available population projections
indicates an increase to about 11 million, in which case the supply will
remain roughly as it was in 1977 at about 120 lpcd. This quantity is quite
low compared with some other cities in India (Delhi and Calcutta have more
than 200 lpcd) and very low compared with levels of water consumption in
developed countries, which range from 250 to 1,000 lpcd.
Table 3.1 AVAILABILITY OF WATER, 1976 to 1991
ASSUMING NORMAL AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL
Average
Total Supply        Population          Quantity Available For
Year            (mld)            (million)       Domestic Consumption (lpcd) /a
1977          1,600                 7.6                      125
1981          1,900 /b          7.8 to  9.2              134  to  114
1986          2,050 7c /e       8.0 to 11.0             117  to   85
1986          2,500 Id          8.0 to 11.0             160  to  116
1991          2,050 /e          9.3 to 13                104  to   75
1991          2,500 7           9.3 to 13                144  to  103
Assumptions:
/a   After deduction of supplies to industry, commerce and others,
see Table 3.2.
/b   Project presently under construction completed (1978/9).
7T   Completion of transmission system improvements under proposed
project (1982).
jd   Augmentation of supply under proposed project (1984).
/e   Supply not augmented under proposed project.
Composition of Water Consumption
3.05      The present and projected pattern of water use is summarized in
Table 3.2. Residential or domestic consumers in Bombay account for the
largest share of water, some 50 to 60% of the water available at source,
whereas industrial use varies from 15% in 1976 to an estimated 22% in 1991.



- 13 -
Both domestic and industrial use is closely controlled by distribution sys-
tem valve operations. Trade, commerce and government undertakings use a
comparatively small portion, some 4 to 5% of the total supply.
Table 3.2 COMPOSITION OF WATER CONSUMED, 1976 to 1991
Water Availability                         Water Consumed (mld)-
and Use                        1976      1981     1986      1991
Available at source                1,600 /b 1,900    2,500    2,500
En route supplies /c                   70       70        20        20
Transmission losses (2%)               30       40        50        50
Treatment Plant Use /d                -          5        15        15
Net Quantity for
Distribution                     1,500    1,785    2,415    2,415
Distribution System Losses /e        225       305       485       410
Industry /f                          245       350       530       545
Trade and Commerce                     20       25        40        45
Government Undertakings                55       60        75        80
Domestic                             955    1,045    1,285    1,335
/a   Numbers are rounded to nearest 5 mld.
/b   Water drawn from source exceeded this safe yield by 77 mld in
1976.
/c   Supplies to towns outside BMC area, but adjacent to BMC trans-
mission mains. Some of these towns will receive water from
another source (Barvi reservoir) in 1982.
/d   Part of Bhandup plant wash-water returned to Vihar lake (1979);
no wash-water recovery from Panjrapur Plant (1984).
/e   Initially 15%, increasing to 17% in 1981 and 20% in 1986 as
hours of supply increase, then decreasing to 17% with improved
control of the system.
/f   BMC's projections based on a continuing quota system for industry.
3.06      The estimated distribution system losses of 15% are below the gen-
erally accepted average for a system of this age and size; however, losses
would increase to unacceptable levels of 35 or 40% if the mains were under
pressure for 24 hours per day. WSSD has therefore planned to expand its
activities to detect and control system losses to 17% as the distribution
system is improved and extended and as the hours of water supply are
lengthened (paragraph 4.08).
3.07      The number of water connections is low (165,000 in 1976) compared
with the total number of consumers, because of the large proportion of apart-
ment buildings and single-room tenements in which multiple dwelling units
are normally served by one connection. The average number of persons per
connection in 1976 was 30 and is not expected to change significantly in the
future. Although the number of standpipes in use is expected to double within
five years, the level of service may not significantly improve because of the
projected increase in the number of slum dwellers (Table 3.3).



- 14 -
Table 3.3: ESTIMATED POPULATION SERVED BY STANDPIPES AND CONNECTIONS
BASED ON A TOTAL POPULATION OF 11.0 MILLION IN 1991
1976  1981  1986  1991
Population served by standpipes (millions)         2.5   3.2   4.0   5.0
Average number of persons per standpipe            370   330   270   300
Population served by connections (millions)        4.8   5.1   5.5   6.0
Average number of persons per connection            30    30    30    30
3.08      The hours of supply vary throughout the supply area depending
primarily on the capacities and operating characteristics of parts of the
distribution system and the amount of distribution storage available. Hours
of supply, have been estimated by WSSD, as shown in Table 3.4 and Maps IBRD
13373, 4 and 5.
Table 3.4
1976                     1986                     1991
Supply    Population    Supply    Population    Supply    Population
Hours         %          Hours         %           Hours         %
2-3         36
4-6         55            3-4         28            3-5          31
6-8          9            5-6         72            5-8          69
Demand for Access to the Sewerage Service
3.09      Between 40 and 50% of the project area is currently served by
water-borne sanitation, although much of the system is inadequate and there
are no effective facilities for the safe disposal of sewage collected from
this area. Historically there has been no reluctance on the part of property
owners in Bombay to connect to sewers whenever the facility is made available,
primarily because there are no readily acceptable alternatives and because BMC
provides financial assistance to property owners to connect to the sewerage
system. Septic tanks or seepage pits are not satisfactory in many areas
since soil percolation conditions are poor; bucket latrines are a health risk
as well as being objectionable. BMC estimates that the project will enable
between 80 and 90% of all properties to have access to adequate sewerage
facilities by 1985 (Map IBRD 13376), by which time acceptable means of sewage
treatment and disposal will also have been completed under the project.



- 15 -
IV. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
Scope and Objectives
4.01       In 1971 BMC, assisted by consultants, 1/ prepared a water supply
and sewerage development program for Greater Bombay, for the period 1971-81.
The objective of the program is to improve the standard of public health in
the Greater Bombay municipal area by providing an increased volume of more
wholesome water and by improved access to sewerage facilities. In 1973 the
first stage of this program became the (first) Bombay Water Supply and
Sewerage Project, with assistance by the Association under Credit 390-IN.
In the water supply system under the first project, water released from the
Bhatsai dam will be stored at Pise Weir, some 48 km below the dam, pumped over
a distance of 8 km to a treatment plant at Panjrapur, where it will be clari-
fied in settling tanks. This settled water will then be conveyed to the main
treatment plant at Bhandup where water from all of the BMC sources will be
filtered and chlorinated. Fully treated water from Bhandup will be conveyed
to distribution reservoirs in Greater Bombay and thence to consumers. Sewer-
age system improvements under the first project comprised extension of parts
of the sewage collection system, including renovation and construction of
sewage pumping stations.
4.02      Although the first project was intended to cover works during the
period 1973-1977, it was subsequently reduced in scope and its duration was
extended to 1979. The objectives of the first project were to: relieve water
shortages; improve water distribution; reduce water losses; rehabilitate and
begin to expand the sewerage system and develop a more effective water supply
and sewerage department (WSSD) within BMC. Many unforeseen difficulties were
encountered during project implementation. Some parts of the engineering
works required redesign to provide better solutions than those originally
envisaged. This factor, and substantial increases in world prices for goods,
resulted in a cost overrun and a consequent reduction in project scope,
primarily in sewerage and water distribution works. Delays in project
implementation resulted from: labor strikes by manufacturers, intermittent
shortages of basic construction materials such as cement and explosives, late
delivery of vital components such as valves, and construction delays, mainly
attributed to lack of management skills by private contractors. WSSD, with
its improved management ability assisted by project monitoring techniques,
overcame these difficulties and will successfully complete the project some
two years behind the original schedule. The project will achieve much of its
original purpose, increasing the water supply by about 450 mld to a total of
about 1,900 mld, 2/ providing full water treatment and moderately improving
1/   Binnie and Partners, Consulting Engineers (UK).
2/   This is the total quantity of water that will be available to con-
sumers on completion of the first project. Subsequently when water
transmission mains have been improved, about 2,050 mld will be
available.



- 16 -
the sewage collection system. BMC proposes to implement a second stage of
the original program -- which was intended to cover works scheduled for
implementation during the period 1977 to 1981 -- and has requested the
Association's assistance; this work, with the addition of items deferred
from the first project, would form the basis of the second Bombay water
supply and sewerage project.
The Water Supply and Sewerage Program
4.03      The source of water for the water supply program (paragraph 4.01)
is the Bhatsai reservoir for which a dam is presently being constructed by
the Irrigation Department of GOM. The dam is designed to provide year-round
releases of water for Bombay, to be developed in three equal stages of 450 mld
each, and to supply water for irrigation. The first stage of the dam to pro-
vide sufficient water for the ongoing project was completed in June 1978.
GOM intends to proceed with a continuous construction program under which
the dam will be completed to its full design height by June 1985. During
negotiations GOM agreed to construct Bhatsai dam, including the provision
of sufficient funds, according to a schedule that will make water available
from the Bhatsai reservoir, as required for the project. BMC agreed that
the Association will be given the opportunity to review and comment upon any
future contracts concluded by BMC for the purchase of existing and new sup-
plies of bulk water.
4.04      During negotiations GOM agreed that all of the dams, and associated
structures, which impound water for use by BMC, will be inspected annually
in accordance with sound engineering practice to determine whether there are
any deficiencies in their condition, or in their maintenance or operation,
which may endanger their safety. Dams to be so inspected would include:
Bhatsai, Vihar, Tulsi, Tansa, Vaitarna and Upper Vaitarna. Inspections would
be performed by suitably qualified experts.
4.05      The program was selected from a number of alternatives recommended
by the engineering consultants (1971) to meet Bombay's water and sewerage
needs. It recognized that water would be insufficient to meet demand but
concentrated on improving the hours of supply, treating all of the water,
providing more reliable and equitable distribution, and rehabilitating and
extending the sewage collection and disposal systems. When construction of
the first project is completed in 1979, it will significantly improve water
quality and also augment the supply of water, but for budgetary reasons,
distribution expansion will be less than originally planned and little will
have been achieved in sewerage system improvements.
4.06      Although BMC has proceeded with minor elements of the sewerage
program, there has been little improvement in the level of service offered
and no treatment or disposal works have been constructed. The primary reasons
for not implementing a larger part of the first stage of the sewerage plan
were the magnitude of investment required and the cost overruns experienced
in the first project, resulting in a reduced scope of work, and a decision
to defer sewage disposal works pending a further study (completed in July
1977) concerned with the possible reuse of sewage effluent.



- 17 -
The Project Description
4.07      The principal project elements are illustrated in Maps IBRD 13372
and 13376, described in detail in Annex 1, and summarized as follows:
Water Supply
(a) Supplementary (450 mld) river water pumping capacity at
Pise Weir.
(b) A 450 mld water filtration plant at Panjrapur, adjacent
to existing pre-treatment facilities.
(c) Construction of a 120 million liter (ml) balancing reservoir
and some 35 kilometers of 2.2 meter diameter transmission
mains, including a 3 meter diameter tunnel 2.75 kilometers
long.
(d) Additional pumps, and associated mains at Bhandup to supply
the Malad and Borivli areas.
(e) Distribution system improvements including renovation of
reservoirs, new reservoirs, booster pumping stations
and mains.
(f) Renovation of existing transmission mains, to restore
capacity of the existing system.
(g) Public taps in slum areas.
(h) Leakage detection equipment, meters, vehicles, workshops,
stores, miscellaneous equipment, plant operators' quarters
and access roads to facilities.
Sewage Collection
(a) Sewage collection and conveyance systems in 5 zones
including new pumping stations, renovation of exist-
ing pumping stations, construction of force mains,
trunk and branch sewers, as well as some 7 km of
large diameter sewers (to be constructed by tunneling)
in the Mahim drainage zone to convey sewage to Bandra
outfall.
(b) Public latrine blocks in slum areas.
Sewage Treatment and Disposal
(a)  Renovation of an existing 42 mld sewage treatment
plant at Colaba.



- 18 -
(b) Preliminary sewage treatment and disposal via two
submarine outfalls, one at Worli and one at Bandra;
the capcity at each location is about 800 mld.
(c) Sewage treatment in aerated lagoons and the disposal
of treated effluent at four locations (Versova, Malad,
Chembur and Bhandup, with capacities 131, 280, 386
and 196 mld, respectively).
4.08      WSSD has recently increased the number of teams engaged in detection
of distribution system losses so that the frequency of surveys in each of the
510 zones is sufficient to prevent losses rising above the present level of
some 15% (about 225 mld). WSSD has identified associated manpower and equip-
ment requirements, and during negotiations BMC's assurances were obtained that
system losses detection will be improved in accordance with a program accep-
table to the Association and BMC. Additional equipment required for this
program will be provided under the project.
4.09      Approximately 47% (77,000) of the existing water connections are
metered, including all industries, most commercial undertakings and many
domestic supplies. It is estimated that about 40% of the meters do not
function satisfactorily for a number of reasons, which have been identified
by WSSD and which are primarily associated with water quality, the quality
and suitability of the meters, the intermittent nature of the supply and
inadequate preventive maintenance of the meters. WSSD has prepared a program
for more systematic and improved maintenance of existing meters. The metering
program for new consumers, initiated under the first project, will be inten-
sified by WSSD under the proposed project. During negotiations BMC's assur-
ances were obtained that WSSD would adopt metering procedures in accordance
with a program satisfactory to the Association and BMC.
4.10      The project includes engineering consultants' services (paragraph
4.17) for final design and construction supervision of tunnels, water treat-
ment and pumping facilities, as well as studies, design and construction
supervision of some of the distribution components of the system. Similar
services will be required for almost all of the sewerage works, with the ex-
ception of sewers forming part of the sewage collection system which are
normally designed and supervised departmentally. It is estimated that the
total cost of engineering consultants' services will be about Rs 81 million
(US$9.4 million) representing some 700 man-months by foreign consultants
(US$8,500 per man-month) and 3,200 man-months by local consultants (US$1,200
per man-month). Foreign consultants would only be needed to provide design
and construction expertise for particular components such as the sewerage
system submarine outfalls, treatment plants and larger pumping stations; how-
ever, even with these specialized works, foreign firms would associate with a
local firm which would provide the major portion of the manpower requirement.
4.11      The training component of the project provides for continuation of
BMC's present training program (paragraph 2.08). Under the proposed project,
40 engineers would receive overseas training in specialized engineering works
related to the project, including: construction, operation and maintenance
of sewage treatment plants, large pumping stations, and marine outfalls;



- 19 -
renovation and protection of steel water mains; maintenance of meters and
control systems, and management of multi-source water systems. A further 150
engineers would receive training in Indian training institutions under the
ongoing program.
Least-Cost Solutions
4.12      The water supply program is based on a system -- source, pumping,
treatment, transmission -- selected as being the least-cost system of several
feasible alternatives which were examined under the original (1971) study
and report. 1/ This report has been updated and reviewed leading to additions
and changes in individual components. The sewage disposal system, which forms
part of the project, was selected, after a similar but more recent examination 2/
of a number of alternatives, as being the most economical solution. Least
costs of some of the larger components of the water and sewerage systems were
examined during these studies; other components have been studied by consulting
engineers specially engaged by BMC for this purpose as part of the preparatory
work for this project. Least-cost solutions for parts of the distribution
system will form part of the study and final design procedures to be imple-
mented under the project. Least costs of systems and/or components were
identified by computing present worths of alternatives at 8, 10 and 12% dis-
count rates.
Cost Estimates
4.13      The estimated cost of the project is Rs 3,540 million (US$411.6
million) including contingencies, customs duty and taxes. The estimated cost
of the principal features of the project is shown in Annex 2 and summarized
below.
1/   Report on Water Supply and Sewerage for Greater Bombay by Binnie and
Partners, Consulting Engineers, 1971.
2/   Report on Methods for Treatment and Disposal of Wastewaters from Greater
Bombay by Metcalf and Eddy Inc., and Environmental Engineering Consul-
tants, 1977.



- 20 -
Table 4.1:  SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
Description                 Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
----- Rs Million ----    ---- US$ Million ----
WATER SUPPLY
Civil Works                       542      49      591       63.1    5.6       68.7
Equipment                         236    158       394       27.4   18.4       45.8
Subtotal                      778    207       985       90.5   24.0    114.5
SEWERAGE
Civil Works                       494    130       624       57.5   15.1       72.6
Equipment                         132      52      184       15.3    6.1       21.4
Subtotal                      626    182      808        72.8   21.2       94.0
COMMON SERVICES
Stores, Workshops and Depots    16         -        16        1.9      -        1.9
Vehicles and Miscellaneous
Equipment                        14      -        14        1.6     _         1.6
Subtotal                       30      -        30        3.5      -        3.5
OTHERS
Engineering:
Consultants                      38      43       81        4.4    5.0        9.4
BMC, WSSD                       171      -       171       19.9      -       19.9
Training                            6       2        8        0.7    0.2        0.9
Land Acquisition                   33      -        33        3.8      -        3.8
Public Taps and Latrines          100      -       100       11.6      -       11.6
Subtotal                      348      45     393       40.4    5.2       45.6
CONTINGENCIES
Physical Contingencies            216      77      293       25.1    9.0       34.1
Price Contingencies               711    159       870       82.7   18.5    101.2
Subtotal                      927    236   1,163        107.8   27.5    135.3
Total Before Duties
and Taxes                2,709    670   3,379        315.0   77.9    392.9
DUTY AND TAXES
Customs Duty                       84      -        84        9.7      -        9.7
Taxes                              77      -        77        9.0      -        9.0
Subtotal                      161      -       161       18.7      -       18.7
Total Project Cost          2,870    670   3,540        333.7   77.9    411.6
SUMMARY
WATER SUPPLY                      1,732    337   2,069        201.4   39.2    240.6
SEWERAGE                          1,138    333   1,471        132.3   38.7    171.0



- 21 -
4.14      Civil works costs are based on WSSD's and consultants' estimates
of works for which preliminary designs have been completed. Materials and
equipment cost estimates are based on bids for items in the current project,
suitably updated, or on recent quotations by manufacturers and suppliers.
Physical contingencies of 10 to 15% (depending on the type of work) have
been allowed for all works with the exception of water transmission mains,
for which final alignments have yet to be selected, and submarine outfalls
which have not previously been constructed in India and for which elements
of construction risk are above average; for these items contingencies of 20
and 25%, respectively, have been included. Price contingencies for both
local and foreign costs have been included in accordance with current guide-
lines on the basis of the following annual rates for the project implementa-
tion period 1978 through 1984: local equipment and civil works, 7 and 8%,
respectively; foreign equipment, 7.5% for 1978 and 1979 and 7% thereafter;
foreign civil works, 9% for 1978 and 1979 and 8% thereafter.
Proposed Amount of IDA Credit
4.15      An IDA Credit of US$196 million is proposed; this is about 50% of
the project cost of US$393 million excluding customs duty and taxes. It is
proposed that the Association should reimburse the expenditure after
September 1, 1978 for consultants' services and advance purchase of steel
plates, for which forward ordering is essential. The total retroactive
financing involved would not exceed US$1.0 million.
Project Design, Construction and Supervision
4.16      WSSD, under the charge of the Deputy Municipal Commissioner (Special
Engineering), will have overall responsibility for project design and construc-
tion. BMC will appoint consultants to complete final engineering design and
supervise construction of a major portion of the works. WSSD engineering staff
will plan and control project development as well as designing and supervis-
ing construction of a significant part of the water distribution system, the
sewage collection system and other selected components. Although WSSD has
staff capable of carrying out works of this type, the additional work load
will require a considerable manpower input by engineering consultants.
4.17      Because the completion of engineering design of major components
of both the water supply and sewerage systems is a critical item in the
project schedule, BMC proposes to appoint consulting engineers to carry out
this work. The appointment of consulting engineers acceptable to the Asso-
ciation would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
Implementation Schedule
4.18      WSSD plans to implement the project in a five-year period, begin-
ning in the first calendar quarter of 1979 and terminating on the project
completion date of March 31, 1984, by which time all of the works would be
in operation. Few new civil works contracts would begin during the first
year, since the major part of WSSD's efforts would be directed toward comple-
tion of the first project and to preparing detailed engineering designs and



- 22 -
contract documents. However, by the last quarter of 1980, most of the larger
civil works contracts would have been awarded and would be completed in con-
struction periods of 24 to 30 months (Annex 3). The schedule is a realistic
one, although completion of the works within this time frame will require
careful planning and good management.
Procurement
4.19      All contracts for equipment, materials and meters would be awarded
under international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the
Association's guidelines, with the exception of contracts for items such as
sewer pipes, fabrication of steel pipes (from steel plate purchased under
international bidding procedures) and items costing less than US$50,000 with
an aggregate value of not more than US$1.0 million. Contracts for sewer
pipes and fabrication of steel pipes would be awarded under local competitive
bidding procedures and items costing less than US$50,000 would be procured
under BMC's local, procurement procedures, both of which are acceptable to
the Association. The estimated cost of sewer pipes and fabrication of steel
pipes is about US$26 million. Sewer pipes cannot be economically transported
over long distances because of their bulk and fragile nature; fabrication of
steel pipes has a high labor content and foreign contractors are not competi-
tive with Indian contractors. Items costing less than US$50,000 would not
attract foreign bidders, are unsuitable for packaging into larger contracts
and would not justify international bidding.
4.20      Civil works in this project fall into two categories; the first
category includes a large number of relatively small contracts, which are
widely dispersed throughout the project area, do not require special plant,
equipment or techniques, are labor intensivie and are traditionally carried
out by registered contractors established in Bombay or other major Indian
cities. These works, which include sewers and small sewage pumping stations,
would not attract foreign bidders since it is clear that overseas firms could
not successfully compete with local bidders for works of this type and size.
The proceeds of the proposed credit would not be disbursed against these small
civil works contracts. The second category of civil works includes larger
and more specialized works; although some local contractors have the required
specialized knowledge, adequate capacity, management skills and organizational
ability for these works, the contract values might be sufficiently large to
attract foreign bidders. Such works include: submarine outfalls, tunnels,
one of the trunk sewers , construction and renovation of large water mains,
construction of large pumping stations and construction of a balancing
reservoir. The estimated total value of these civil works subject to inter-
national competitive bidding is US$100 million; part of the proceeds of the
credit would be disbursed against these civil works contracts.
4.21      In evaluating bids for equipment and materials, domestic manufac-
turers would be given a preferential margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. costs
of the competing imports or the existing rate of customs duty, whichever is
lower. A preferential margin of 7-1/2% would be allowed for local contractors
in evaluating civil works bids. Most of the contracts for equipment and
materials supply and all contracts for civil works, other than the submarine
outfalls, are likely to be won by local contractors.



- 23 -
Land Acquisition and Way Leaves
4.22       Some 480 hectares of land will be required for the project, much
of which is presently privately owned and will be acquired under existing
legislation. None of the land to be acquired is used for agricultural pur-
poses and no resettlement is involved. The period required to complete
normal land acquisition procedures is about two years; however, in cases of
urgency GOM may make land available for construction within a year after the
initial application and prior to completion of the whole of the formal acqui-
sition procedures. In the case of GOM-owned land, BMC may be granted permis-
sion to occupy the land prior to completion of land transfer formalities.
4.23      During appraisal, the necessary steps for acquisition of land for
the project were identified by WSSD and a tentative land acquisition program
was prepared. During negotiations GOM and BMC agreed to take all necessary
action to acquire land needed for the project.
Disbursements
4.24      The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over a five-year
period. An estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 10. Disburse-
ments would be made as follows:
(a) Equipment (US$98.0 million)
For equipment procured after international or local
competitive bidding, 100% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported goods, or 100% of local expenditures
(exfactory costs) for locally manufactured goods. For
goods procured under BMC's local procurement procedures,
50% of local expenditures.
(b) Civil Works (US$80.0 million)
80% of expenditures for contracts awarded as a result
of international competitive bidding.
(c) Consultants' Services and Training (US$12.0 million )
100% of foreign expenditures for training, and 100%
of expenditures for consultants' services (excluding
any reimbursement of taxes).
(d) Unallocated (US$6.0 million)
3% of the total credit.
Environmental and Health Impact
4.25      The water supply component will enable the level of the present
intermittent supply to be maintained as water demand continues to grow with



- 24 -
the projected increase in population. The incidence of water-related disease,
(para 6.05), should decline with the provision of more standpipes and longer
supply hours for slum areas (paragraph 6.04).
4.26      Improvement and extension of the sewage collection system, to serve
80 to 90% of the population, will prevent contamination of streets, footpaths
and dwelling areas which presently occurs when sewage flows exceed the capacity
of the system. Provision of effective means of sewage treatment and disposal
will reduce the present gross pollution of beaches and inland water courses.
Thus the proposed water supply and sewerage improvements, by ensuring an equit-
able distribution of wholesome water, albeit on an intermittent basis, as well
as the safe collection and disposal of human waste, will reduce potential
sources of disease that presently pervade the urban community, particularly
the slum areas.



- 25 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Financial Performance
5.01      Following the establishment of WSSD its financial activities were
separated from those of BMC and concentrated in a finance and administration
section in WSSD headed by an Additional Municipal Chief Accountant. Separate
Water and Sewerage and Consolidated Loans Funds were established. A balance
sheet for the new entity was prepared at April 1, 1974, and an accrual system
of accounting adopted from that date.
5.02      Since WSSD became a separate financial entity the financial per-
formance has been satisfactory (see Annexes 5-7). WSSD's earnings performance
for the four years FY75 to FY78 is summarized in the following table:
Table 5.1: WSSD INCOME STATEMENT
FY78
FY75          FY76          FY77         Revised
Actual        Actual        Actual         Budget
----------------- Rs Million -----------------
Operating Revenues             323.9 /a      297.9         468.8         453.5 /b
Operating Expenses              89.2         116.1         129.2         207.6 /c
Operating Surplus              234.7         181.8         339.6         245.9
Net Assets in Operation
(revalued at FY78 prices)  2,079.1         2,055.2       2,031.6       1,967.6
Rate of Return on
Revalued Assets                11.3%          8.8%         16.6%         12.3%
/a   Includes Rs 60.8 million in revenues relating to FY74 when receivables
were kept on a cash basis.
/b   A reduction in revenues in FY78 occurs as a result of supply interruptions
arising from construction works during the year.
/c   Includes depreciation on basis of revalued assets.
5.03      WSSD is required under Credit 390-IN to generate an annual surplus
which, together with any other internal funds, is sufficient to finance 40% of
the annual capital expenditure. The Association's covenant is met if, in any
two consecutive years, 40% of the aggregate capital expenditure is met from
internal sources subject to a minimum of 33% in each of such years. This
financial target has been achieved for the past three years as is indicated
in the following table:



- 26 -
Table 5.2: WSSD INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
FY78
FY75          FY76          FY77         Revised
Actual        Actual        Actual         Budget
----------------- Rs Million -----------------
Operating Surplus              234.7         181.8          339.6           245.9
Add:  Depreciation                -           23.9           23.6            64.0
234.7         205.7          363.2          309.9
Less : Debt Service             89.4          91.2           78.7            75.4
Total Internal Cash
Generation                   145.3         114.5          284.5          234.5
Annual Capital Expenditure
(including interest during
construction)                116.5         221.6          322.3          617.0
Percentage of Internal
Cash Generation to
Capital Expenditure           125%           52%            88%            38%
While the FY78 revised budget position indicates that internal cash generation
will amount to 38%, the actual position, as in previous years, is likely to
exceed 40% through underspendings in operational and capital expenditure
(e.g., a 5% shortfall in capital expenditure in FY78 would increase internal
cash generation to 40%) and cautious estimating of revenues.
5.04      WSSD's apparent high level of cash generation in the last three years
has resulted from delays in the project and a consequent shortfall in capital
expenditure. Tariffs were increased in FY74 and FY77 and new water and
sewerage benefit taxes introduced in FY75 in anticipation of higher levels of
capital expenditure. WSSD's Sources and Applications forecast in 1975, when
the first project was redefined, and the latest estimate for the period FY75
to FY78 are set out in the following table:



- 27 -
Table 5.3:  WSSD'S SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS STATEMENT
---------- FY 75- FY78 -----------
Forecast in 1975   Latest Estimated
Rs Million    %    Rs Million    %
Applications:
Investment (including interest
during construction)                      1,552         98      1,277       91
Working Capital                                 34         2         131       9
1,586       100      1,408      100
Sources:
Internal Cash Generation                       614        39         779      55
Borrowings                                     972        61        629       45
1,586       100      1,408      100
The latest estimated total cost of the first project (FY74 to FY80) is
Rs 2,280 million (as compared with the 1975 estimate of Rs 2,250 million),
46% of the project cost (as against 39% estimated in 1975) will be financed
from internal cash generation and 54% (as against 61% in 1975) from GOM loans,
the IDA credit and local borrowing.
Present Financial Position
5.05      WSSD's estimated position at March 31, 1978 is generally satisfac-
tory and is set out below:
Rs Million             %
Assets:
Net Fixed Assets                                         3,222           93
Investments/Other                                            99           3
Current Assets                                  346
Less:  Current Liabilities                      190         156          4
3,477         100
Liabilities:
Equity:
Grants and Contributions                                 398
Revaluation Reserve                                      884
Operational Surplus                                      880
Total                                                2,162          62
Long-term Debt                                           1,315          38
3,477         100



- 28 -
5.06      WSSD's debt/equity ratio is 38:62, which is satisfactory and pro-
vides adequate margin for further borrowing; the current ratio of 1.8 is also
satisfactory. As of March 31, 1978 substantial (Rs 56.6 million) funds
remain to be paid to WSSD by BMC since April 1, 1974 and at negotiation an
assurance was obtained that BMC will transfer this amount to WSSD in two
installments in FY79 and FY80.
Asset Revaluation
5.07      The task of revaluing existing assets at current costs was completed
during FY78. The revalued assets will be formally incorporated in WSSD's
balance sheet at March 31, 1978. Assets in operation will be revalued at
regular intervals in the future using a general price index for India.
Receivables
5.08      Consumer receivables as a percentage of total annual billings
have fallen from 52% in FY76 to an estimated 34% in FY78. Initial billing
and recovery difficulties have been overcome. Billing is now computerized,
using an outside agency, and bills should be dispatched promptly in FY79.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that WSSD will progressively reduce
the level of receivables to not more than 20% of billings by March 31, 1984.
Financing Plan
5.09      WSSD's financing plan for the years FY79 through FY84 (the construc-
tion period of the second project) is set out below and in greater detail in
Annex 6.



- 29 -
Table 5.4: FINANCING PLAN (FY79 THROUGH FY84)
Rs Million      US$ Million        %
Applications of Funds:
Capital Expenditure
1st Project                                    833            96.8           16
2nd Project                                  3,540           411.6           67
Other Works (from FY84)                           199            23.2            4
4,572           531.6           87
Interest during Construction                     550             64.0           10
Increase in Working Capital                      130             15.1            3
Total Requirements                           5,252           610.7          100
Sources of Funds:
Internal Cash Generation                       2,785           323.8           53
Less:  Debt Service                              710             82.5           13
2,075           241.3           40
Investments - Repayment                           99            11.5             2
IDA Credits - 1st Project                        108            12.6             2
2nd Project                     1,686           196.0           32
GOM Loans -   1st Project                        482             56.0            9
2nd Project                       682            79.3            13
Other Works                       120             14.0            2
Total Sources                                5,252           610.7          100
5.10      The first project will be completed during FY80 and financed under
existing arrangements between IDA, GOM and BMC. The second project, including
interest during construction will be financed to the extent of 40% from in-
ternal sources and 60% from GOM loans. The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit
will be included in GOI's allocation to GOM and assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (a) GOM will onlend the proceeds of the IDA Credit to BMC
for 25 years including a 4-year grace period at the current GOM lending rate
of 6-3/4% or on other terms acceptable to the Association and (b) GOM will
make available to BMC sufficient additional loans on the same terms to ensure
the completion of the project. As in the first project, an assurance was
obtained at negotiations that BMC will submit to the Association WSSD's
annual investment program.



- 30 -
Tariffs
5.11      The present tariff structure and details of charges since FY74 are
set out in Annex 9. During this period charges to industrial consumers have
increased by 150% whereas the water tax or charge to domestic consumers has
remained unchanged. However, benefit taxes, which are borne by all consumers
with a connected water supply and which are based on the rateable value
of all property in Greater Bombay, were introduced from FY75 to finance the
program of capital expenditure. In FY78 domestic consumers with a metered
supply and sewer connection paid a combined water and sewerage charge of
Rs 0.375 (US$0.04) per cubic meter. The sewerage charge is at the rate of
50% of the water charge. Unmetered supplies are paid for through a water
tax (7%) and sewerage tax (4%) based on the rateable value of the property.
The 4% sewerage tax is also levied on properties which are unsewered but
which have a metered water supply, for which a Rs 0.25 (US$0.03) charge
per cubic meter is made. Industrial consumers in FY78 paid a combined water
and sewerage charge of Rs 3 (US$0.35) per cubic meter or a water charge of Rs
2 (US$0.23) per cubic meter and a sewerage tax of 4% of the property value if
the property is unsewered. In FY78 all consumers paid, in addition to the
above charges and/or taxes, a water benefit tax and a sewerage benefit tax
which are 5 and 3% of property values, respectively.  Slum dwellers are
charged Rs 2 (US$0.23) per month for water and sewerage services, which is an
insignificant proportion of household incomes (see paragraphs 6.16 and 6.17).
5.12      A tariff study, which was completed in December 1977 for WSSD by the
Tata Institute of Social Sciences (Bombay), and which provides a basis for BMC's
consideration of alternative tariff policies and structures in future years,
is presently under review by BMC. During negotiations an assurance was ob-
tained that BMC will, before April 1, 1979, review the tariff structure for
water supply and sewerage service having regard, among other things, to con-
sumers' ability to pay, the economic cost of future expansion of the service
and the views of the Association.
5.13      In the proposed project it is recommended that the cash generation
objective adopted for the first credit (paragraph 5.03) be continued. Accord-
ingly during negotiations BMC gave an assurance that, with effect from FY80,
tariffs will be reviewed before the start of each financial year, to ensure
that revenues are sufficient to meet all operating costs (excluding depre-
ciation), debt service and 40% of annual capital expenditure and to advise
the Association accordingly. On the basis of present forecasts, which include
assumed inflation of 7% per year, WSSD will require cumulative tariff increases
of about 35% in the period FY79 through FY84 when the project is expected to
be completed.  The projected tariff increases would be 14% in FY80, 9% in FY81
and 8% in FY84. A further tariff increase of 14% may be required in FY85.
In terms of rate of return on revalued assets, WSSD's earnings would be at
least 7% (see paragraph 5.14).
Future Finances
5.14      Financial projections for FY79 to FY85 are set out in Annexes 5-7.
Assumptions used in preparing the projections are given in Annex 8. Salient
features of WSSD's future finances are summarized below:



- 31 -
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Operating Revenues (Rs million)  495    707    782    803    929    945   1,374
Operating Revenues at Constant
(1977/78) Prices (Rs million)  495    623    632    642    690    700           900
Operating Ratio                     37%    38%    40%    41%    41%    44%        47%
Debt Service Coverage              4.3    6.8    3.3    3.4    4.0    3.5         1.9
Rate of Return (on annually
revalued assets)               12.3%  10.5%   7.6%   7.2%   8.4%   7.3%    7.0%
Contribution to Investment         34%    45%    40%    34%    45%    44%         58%
Current Ratio                      2.0    2.4    2.6    2.4    2.4    1.7         1.8
Debt/Equity Ratio                41/59  43/57  44/56  45/55  45/55  44/56   43/57
5.15      These projections indicate a satisfactory financial performance
through FY85. Debt/equity and current ratios are expected to be satisfactory
and liquidity adequate. As in the first project, a debt limitation convenant
is not proposed but, as indicated in paragraph 5.10, BMC will submit WSSD's
annual investment program to the Association.
5.16      Indicators which will assist in monitoring WSSD's performance are
set out in Annex 11 and were agreed with BMC at negotiations.



- 32 -
VI. JUSTIFICATION
Background
6.01      Without the project BMC could not maintain the water supply service
even at its present level; with it, all sections of the community, including
the urban poor, may have access to reasonably safe water, and industry can
continue to function even though the quantity of water is less than would be
considered adequate under most circumstances. The systems for collection,
conveyance and disposal of human wastes and industrial wastes would be im-
proved, thereby reducing health hazards to a fraction of their present level;
environmental pollution would be limited to acceptable levels. The project
would also increase the capacity of the WSSD of BMC, provide additional
training for technical staff and administrative personnel and foster the
practices and concepts of sound engineering, cost recovery and efficiency
pricing in the public sector. These factors are discussed more fully below.
Impact on the Urban Poor
6.02      Approximately one-third of the population of Bombay, about 2.5 mil-
lion people, live in slums. Not all of these people are identified as urban
poor since only about 65% have incomes below a household income poverty level
of Rs 450 per month (Table 6.3). Although the majority of slum dwellers have
some access to essential services, the level of the services is frequently
inadequate. The slum dwellers are primarily migrants from rural areas who,
having no immediate prospect of obtaining housing accommodation, have resorted
to constructing huts on vacant areas of land throughout the Greater Bombay
municipal area. GOM's initial reaction was one of slum clearance; however,
its present policy is to improve the slum areas by providing water, drainage,
sanitation and roads.
6.03      The present program for the provision of standpipes and latrines
will be supplemented under the project, so that some 15,000 new latrines and
10,000 additional water taps, as well as extensions of mains and sewers to slum
areas, will be provided under the project. These water facilities will
directly benefit the major part of the slum population; it is estimated that
the walking distance to a standpipe for most slum dwellers will not exceed
100 meters. The sewerage component will benefit the entire slum population
through its impact on health.
6.04      Periods during which water will be available will be increased
as a result of the project from 4-6 to 5-8 hours per day in some areas and
will be maintained at 6-8 hours in the others (Map IBRD 13373, 4 and 5).
In total, about four million residents supplied through unmetered house con-
nections (mostly single-room tenements) and standpipes (mostly slums) will
benefit from increased durations of water supply periods by one to two hours,
representing in many areas an increase in the hours of supply of 30-40%.
The improvement of sewers, and sewering of new areas, could benefit more than
three million people living in single-room tenements and slums, of whom almost
1.5 million will have a monthly household income below Rs 450 (US$52) at 1977
prices.



- 33 -
Impact on Health
6.05      Records of deaths registered in the Municipality of Greater Bombay
in the period 1972 to 1976 indicate that 40% of all deaths were attributed
to infectious and parasitic diseases. A major part of deaths attributed to
these causes is from water- and sanitation-related diseases such as enteric
fever, dysentery, enteritis (and other diarrheal diseases), parasitic diseases
and infectious hepatitis. Reliable data on the incidence of water-borne
and sanitation-related diseases are not available, but the incidence of these
diseases is clearly much higher than the mortality figures indicated; this is
demonstrated by data from Kasturba Municipal Hospital for Infectious Diseases,
which show one death for every 20 cases treated.
6.06      During monsoon months, the incidence of (and deaths from) water-
and sanitation-related diseases increases dramatically. Statistics for
gastro-intestinal diseases show that 37 to 56% of cases each year occur
during the three monsoon months. This is attributable to a number of factors,
including a deterioration in water quality during higher monsoon flows and
reduced periods of detention in the mainland reservoirs, as well as the spread
of contaminated storm water throughout the city as the inadequate sewerage
system discharges monsoon flows mixed with untreated sewage.
6.07      Even cursory examination of slum areas reveals disease and suffering
caused by lack of sufficient water to ensure a reasonable standard of personal
hygiene.  Staff at medical dispensaries in these areas report a high incidence
of scabies and other skin diseases which are difficult to control in the
absence of adequate water.
6.08      The health impacts of inadequate water and sewerage services fall
more heavily on the poor since they are unable to afford privately-owned
facilities (storage tanks, pumps, septic tanks, etc.) to compensate for defi-
ciencies in the municipal system. Furthermore, the poor are more susceptible
to disease since their natural resistance is weakened by malnutrition. Al-
though medical assistance is available to slum dwellers and a program for
further improvement of such assistance is progressing well, health authorities
believe that their efforts to control communicable diseases will be thwarted
unless water and sewerage facilities are improved.
Economic Rate of Return
6.09      Economic rate of return calculations are based on the following:
-    The labor component of all costs has been estimated both
at full market price and at 70% of the market price.
-    Foreign equipment and materials costs are expressed in CIF
terms. Identifiable taxes and duties are netted out of
local costs, which are converted to border prices by using
an average standard conversion factor based on a shadow
exchange rate of Rs 10/US$1.0.



- 34 -
Costs and benefits are expressed in "border" Rupees.  (Costs
are converted to border prices but denominated in Rupees;
benefits are converted using the standard conversion factor).
Construction is assumed to be carried out during a five-year
period, 1979-1984. New facilities constructed under the
project will be operational by the end of 1984, yielding
most of the incremental revenue and incurring most of the
incremental costs. There is a gradual build-up of incre-
mental cost and revenue during the years of construction,
the bulk of incremental revenue occuring from metered
consumption.
Tariff increases not directly related to the provision of
new facilities are netted out.
-    An average life of 40 years for all water and sewerage works
is assumed, with no residual value at the end and no major
replacements during the period.
6.10      Taking the incremental revenue accruing to BMC as a proxy for the
minimum level of benefits derived from the project yields an internal rate of
return of 5.5% (if labor is valued at full market price) and 6.0% (if labor
is valued at 70% of its market price). Table 6.1 illustrates these results.
This relatively low rate of return reflects the fact the cost of water for
most domestic consumers is heavily subsidized in Bombay (para 5.11), and
such consumers account for 50-60% of total consumption. Despite low prices,
present per capita consumption is small due to severe supply constraints
(para. 3.04). As those constraints are relaxed through the implementation
of the project, it is likely that increased charges for large domestic con-
sumers will be warranted. This issue will be addressed during BMC's review
of tariff recommendations (para 5.12). However, the cross-subsidization of
small consumers and standpipe users is necessary in Bombay to serve those
whose ability to pay for water is low; thus a revenue proxy for benefits will
continue to understate the real value of additional water and improved sani-
tation to the three to four million tenement and slum dwellers served through
the project.



- 35 -
Table 6.1: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
(Rs Millions, 1978 Prices and Tariffs)
Incremental
Annual    Incremental
Recurrent      Annual
Year       Capital Cost      Cost       Revenue      Net Benefit
L1LO L70   L10000L7                       LIOO    L70
1979         87     84      -    -         -         - 87   - 70
1980        352    344      -    -          4        -348   -340
1981        572    560      -    -         12        -560   -548
1982        615    602      -    -         18        -597   -584
1983       497    485       7    7         23        -481   -469
1984        287    280    16   15          31        -272   -264
1985         -      -      91   90        211         120    121
1986         -      -      84   82        224         140    142
1987         -      -      84   82        234         150    152
1988         -      -      84   82        237         189    191
1989         -      -      84   82        237         189    191
1990-2019   -       -      84   82        237         189    191
Approximate economic rate of return                   5.5%   6.0%
Note: L100 = Labor valued at 100% of market wage.
L70   =  Labor valued at 70% of market wage.
6.11      The revenue estimate for benefits accruing to industry also
understates real returns. Almost all industries in the project
area rely entirely on water supplied by BMC and some 50% of industries are
connected to the sewerage system, to which they discharge untreated wastes;
the remainder rely on septic tanks or other forms of disposal. Since the
water supply system cannot meet demand, water to industry is supplied on a
quota system, under which the supply to industrial establishments is shut off
when a predetermined quantity, or quota, has been provided. This practice of
restricting water is particularly detrimental to some industries such as
textiles and chemicals. The economic value of the increase in output and
employment due to a relaxation of the constraint on water consumption is
difficult to quantify. However, an estimate of the order of magnitude of
industrial benefits can be made by assuming that output varies in proportion
to water availability. On this basis, the discounted gain in industrial
output, made possible by the project, would amount to some Rs 4.5 billion
(US$523 million) during the life of the project, which is nearly three times
the comparable revenue proxy for industrial benefits. The policy of charging
industrial users almost twice the marginal cost for their consumption (para
6.15) may be justified on these grounds.
6.12      Additional, though non-quantifiable benefits would results from
the project through the provision of safe water and improved sanitation
to those areas of Bombay with significant health deficiencies (paras 6.05



- 36 -
to 6.08). The reduction of environmental pollution will benefit all inhabi-
tants of Bombay. The wasted time and tedium endured by slum dwellers waiting
at communal taps and standpipes will be reduced. For these reasons, and based
upon the pricing considerations discussed below (paras 6.13 to 6.15), the
project is justified at a 6% rate of return.
Marginal Cost and Tariffs
6.13      The concept of using the average incremental cost (AIC) to express
the long-run marginal cost that should be recovered in today's tariffs, is
suitable for a long-term, year-by-year system investment program such as the
one envisaged for BMC. The time slice of the investment program selected for
purposes of AIC calculation is the period between the financial years 1978/79
and 1983/84. Incremental recurrent costs associated with this investment are
included for the remainder of the 40-year average life of assets.
6.14      The total water and sewerage AIC, in constant prices, is expressed
as the present value of the investment and incremental operating cost streams,
distributed over the present value of the stream of incremental water output.
This is not to imply that all sewerage expenditure should be allocated to
water pricing, but merely to choose a yardstick for tariff adequacy. Using a
discount rate of 10%, the AIC of water supply and sewerage is Rs 1.75 per
thousand liters of additional water supplied (see Table 6.2).
Table 6.2: AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST OF WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
(Rs Millions, January 1978 Prices)
Incremental
Annual Water
Incremental       Total       Output (million
Investment      Recurrent    Incremental    cubic meters
Financial Year   Expenditure   Expenditure   Expenditure            per year)
0      1978-79        649             29              678                -
1      1979/80        671             61              732              110
2      1980/81        629             68              697              110
3      1981/82        676             69              745              110
4      1982/83        555             81              636              165
5      1983/84        522             91              613              165
6      1984/85          -            177              177              330
7-40   1985/86 -
2018/19          -            168             168              330
1979 present value at 10% discount rate            4,305             2,465
Average incremental cost 4305 = Rs 1.75
2465
6.15      This AIC per thousand liters compares with a 1978/79 projected
average revenue per thousand liters (total water and sewerage revenue distri-
buted over the quantity of water supplied) of Rs 0.85. The present average



- 37 -
revenue per unit of output thus constitutes somewhat less than 50% of the
AIC per unit. The present water and sewerage charge per thousand liters
(ignoring taxes) for metered domestic consumers is Rs 0.38, i.e. about 22%
of AIC. On the other hand, the rate for industrial consumers is Rs 3.00 per
thousand liters, i.e. 173% of AIC. While the present average tariff level
should be improved to enhance financial and economic efficiency goals
(paragraph 5.12) the principle of cross-subsidization is justified for Bombay
on equity grounds.
Affordability
6.16      The income distribution of the total population of Greater Bombay
and of its slum dwellers, according to a recent survey conducted by con-
sultants 1/, is shown in Table 6.3. About 16% of all households are esti-
mated to have an income below Rs 450/month (US$52/month); this income group
represents more than 65% of the slum households, and 40% of the residents
of single-room tenements.
Table 6.3: INCOME DISTRIBUTION OF TOTAL POPULATION AND
SLUM POPULATION HOUSEHOLDS OF GREATER BOMBAY
Income Group                 Total Population                 Slum Population
(Rs/Month)                          %                                %
Under 200                           2.75                            12.25
201-450                            13.25                            53.43
451-700                            15.96                            17.40
701-1,000                          18.15                             6.37
1,001-1,500                        15.85                             5.39
1,501-2,000                        12.10                             1.23
2,001-3,000                        11.62 )
3,001-5,000                         6.20 )                           1.23
Above 5,000                          1.75 )
Not recorded                        2.38                             2.70
100.00                          100.00
6.17      The average cost to BMC of supplying water to the average slum
family of 4 to 5 persons, using 60 lpcd, is about Rs 3 per month, against
which the family is required to contribute Rs 2 per month.  The cost of
supplying water to single-room tenements is similar and the revenue collected
is about Rs 0.75. Thus, there is a financial subsidy to the poorer section
of the community, primarily from industry (since the industrial tariff is
eight times the domestic tariff) and from larger domestic consumers. BMC
has indicated that, although increases in the water and sewerage tariff
system are planned, the burden on the poor will not be increased. Compared
with the average income of slum households (almost 90% of which exceed Rs 200
per month) the contribution of Rs 2 per month for water is not significant.
1/   Tata Institute of Social Sciences.



- 38 -
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS
7.01      During negotiations, with GOI, GOM and BMC, assurances were
obtained on the extension of covenants under Credit 390-IN to the project
as follows:
(a)  BMC will maintain a separate adequately staffed WSSD,
will consult with the Association prior to changing
WSSD's structure, organization, responsibilities, or
staffing of key posts (of Deputy Chief Engineer or
above) and will cause WSSD to conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and
public utility practices including the proper main-
tenance of its assets (paragraph 2.07).
(b)  Audited accounts will be submitted to the Association by
BMC within 6 months of the end of each financial year
(paragraph 2.12).
(c)  BMC will submit WSSD's annual investment plan to the
Association (paragraph 5.10).
(d)  BMC will review water and sewerage tariffs annually to
provide revenues sufficient to meet operating expenses
(excluding depreciation) and debt service and to provide
40% of annual capital expenditure (paragraph 5.13).
7.02      Agreements were also reached during negotiations on the following:
(a)  BMC shall, on receipt of WSSD's revenues, continue to
transfer to WSSD's account sufficient cash to meet WSSD's
obligations and to invest and pay interest, currently
6%, to WSSD on any balance remaining with BMC from time
to time until required by WSSD (paragraph 2.11).
(b)  Insurance funds will be bifurcated between WSSD and
BMC by March 31, 1979; thereafter annual contributions
will be made by WSSD to separate Fire/Accident and
Third Party Insurance Funds in accordance with prin-
ciples agreed with the Association; materials and
equipment for the project will be adequately insured
(paragraph 2.13).
(c)  GOM will complete the Bhatsai dam, including the provision
of sufficient funds, according to a schedule that will
make water available from the Bhatsai reservoir as re-
quired for the project. The association will have the
opportunity to review and comment upon draft agreements
for bulk water purchase (paragraph 4.03).



- 39 -
(d) Dams impounding water for use by BMC will be annually
inspected in accordance with sound engineering practice
to determine whether their safety is endangered
(paragraph 4.04).
(e) Detection of distribution system losses and mains repairs
will be improved in accordance with a program acceptable
to the Association and BMC (paragraph 4.08).
(f) Metering procedures will be adopted in accordance with a
program acceptable to the Association and BMC (paragraph
4.09).
(g) BMC will appoint engineering consultants, acceptable to
the Association, to complete engineering designs for the
project (paragraph 4.17).
(h) Land acquisition procedures will be completed in accordance
with a program acceptable to the Association (paragraph 4.23).
(i) BMC will transfer funds (Rs 56.6 million) owed to WSSD,
in two installments in FY79 and FY80, (paragraph 5.06).
(j) WSSD will progressively reduce consumer receivables to
not more than 20% of billings by March 31, 1984
(paragrah 5.08).
(k) GOM will onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit to BMC for
25 years, including a 4-year grace period at the current
GOM lending rate of 6-3/4%, or on other terms acceptable
to the Association; GOM will also make available to BMC
sufficient additional loans on the same terms to ensure
the completion of the project (paragraph 5.10).
(1) BMC will, before April 1, 1979, review the tariff structure
for water supply and sewerage services having regard, among
other things, to consumers' ability to pay, the economic
cost of future expansion of the service and the views of
the Association (paragraph 5.12).
7.03      The apppointment of engineering consultants to complete detailed
engineering design (paragraph 4.17) would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit.
7.04      Subject to agreement on the issues set forth in this report, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$196 million on the standard
terms.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
I N D I A
THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Description
A. WATER SUPPLY
The History of the System
1.        Bombay's first piped water system was constructed in the mid-19th
century to serve commercial and residential areas in the southern portion of
Bombay island near the harbor and the Fort. Subsequent rapid expansion of com-
merce and development of industry caused a northward expansion, accompanied
by development of Salsette, an adjacent island, and reclamation of land from
the sea by filling shallows, bays, inlets and creeks, to form the Greater
Bombay area (440 square kilometers).
2.        Vihar Lake (Map IBRD 13372) was Bombayts first source of water.  The
Lake, or reservoir, formed by three earthen dams was brought into use in 1860
and provided a 24-hour supply for an 8-year period until water demands out-
stripped supply leading to development of an adjacent source, the Tulsi reser-
voir, which was brought into use, on completion of its dam and gravity main,
in 1879. In 1883 further increases in demand for water prompted Bombay Muni-
cipal Corporation to develop the Tansa reservoir which was the first of the
more distant, and more expensive, sources of water located on the mainland.
3.        There was no further shortage of water until 1944 when BMC sanctioned
the beginning of work on the Vaitarna project which was completed in 1957. How-
ever, extension of the Corporation's boundaries in that year once again led
to an increase in the city's water demand and the Upper Vaitarna scheme was
started in 1965. An unusually dry year in 1966 caused panic among the people
of Bombay and a fear that part of the city's population would have to be evacu-
ated because of lack of sufficient water to provide for even the most essen-
tial uses. The State Government permitted the Corporation to extract water
from the Ulhas river for which works were completed in 1967.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        In 1964 a special committee appointed by BMC to investigate new sources
of water for Bombay recommended construction of a dam across the Bhatsai river
to ultimately provide 1,350 mld for Bombay and 455 mld for irrigation. The
State Government took up the work and the first stage of the massive masonry
dam (88.5 meters high and 918 meters long) supplying 450 mld to Bombay will be
completed by June 1978. Two subsequent stages, each supplying 450 mld to
Bombay, will be completed in 1984 and 1985.
5.        Yieldsi/ of these sources of water for Bombay are summarized as follows:
Cumulative
Source                       Yield in mld              Yield in mld
Vihar                                        50                        50
Tulsi                                        18                        68
Tansa                                       426                       494
Vaitarna                                    464                       958
Ulhas                                        91                     1,049
Upper Vaitarna                              539                     1,588
Bhatsai State I (1978)                      450                     2,0382/
Bhatsai Stage II (1984)                     450                     2,488
Bhatsai Stage III (1985)                    450                     2,9388/
1/ Based on design criteria using monsoon inflows having 95% reliability.
2/ This is the total source yield on completion of Bhatsai Stage I; however
transmission system improvements will be necessary to enable the total
yield to be conveyed to consumers.
3/ This is the total source yield on completion of the dam to its full height,
however additional transmission and treatment facilities would be required
to enable the total yield to be conveyed to consumers.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
Water Works Under the First Project (IDA Credit 390-IN)
6.        In the late 1960s the State Government proceeded with design and con-
struction of the Bhatsai dam and appointed Messrs. Binnie and Partners Ltd.,
UK, Consulting Engineers, to investigate and report on the water supply for Bom-
bay. The report, which was issued in 1971,identified the least cost means of
improving Bombay's water supply to an acceptable level over the period 1971 to
1981. The first stage of this program (with sewerage works, see paragraph 25)
became the first IDA assisted Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project under
Credit 390-IN, effective in March 1974.
7.        The program of works recommended by the consultants in 1971 recognized
that financial constraints would not permit the backlog of water supply (and
sewerage) works to be cleared entirely, and that water shortages would continue.
Full treatment of the whole of Bombay's water supply formed a major part of
the recommended program, as well as the augmentation of the supply by 450 mld
to be made available by the completion of the first stage of Bhatsai dam.
8.        Water released from the Bhatsai dam will augment the flow of the river
over its course to the Pise Weir, 48 km below the dam. The Weir, constructed
under the first project, raises the river level and provides sufficient storage
to enable the ultimate allocation of Bhatsai water (1,350 mld) to be pumped
from the river. The first stage of the Pise pumping station will lift 450 mld
from the river and convey it, via 8 km of 2,235 mm main, to settling tanks at
Panjrapur. After chemical coagulation and settling in multiple hopper-bottomed
tanks the water will again be pumped into mains which also carry water from
Vaitarna and Upper Vaitarna reservoirs. The blended water will flow to Mulund
where all of the water from BMC's multiple sources will be chlorinated, prior
to further treatment at the Bhandup Treatment Plant, now under construction as
part of the first project.
9.        Bhandup treatment plant has a capacity of 1,900 mld, based on a fil-
tering rate of 2 mm/second (150 Imperial gallons per square foot per hour),
and a pretreatment detention period of 2-1/2 hours (corresponding to a rise
rate of 2.74 m per hour). Treatment comprises pre-chlorination, flocculation
with alum and caustic soda, settlement in a solids contact basin ("pretreator")
using sludge recirculation, filtration in rapid-gravity declining rate
units and post-chlorination. Treated water will be pumped from the plant's
clear water tank to a 245 million liters (ml) balancing reservoir, which is
now under construction. Water will flow from this reservoir by gravity to 14
existing distribution reservoirs and 4 new distribution reservoirs, which are
being constructed under the first project, and thence to consumers.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
10.       Thus, the first project provides for treatment of 450 mld of additional
water as well as full treatment, and conveyance to 7.6 million consumers, of
the whole of Bombay's water, some 1,900 mld.
Water Supply Under the Proposed Project
Introduction
11.       The first stage of Bombay's water supply program (paragraph 6), which
was to have been completed in 1977, has been extended to 1979 and has also been
reduced in scope (primarily by deferring distribution system improvements)
because of rising costs in 1973 and 1974. Because water available on comple-
tion of this first stage will not meet water demands from the continuing
growth of population, as discussed in Chapter 3 of the Staff Appraisal Report,
BMC proposes to implement the second stage of the original program. The pro-
posed works, which are described below, will maintain the present level of
water supply service to all categories of consumers -- although the supply
will continue to be intermittent -- and will improve the distribution of water.
Pise Intake and Pumping System
12.       Pise Weir and intake structures constructed under the first project
(paragraph 8) across Bhatsai river have adequate capacity for the second and
third stages of development of the Bhatsai source and require no additional
works. Pise pumping station would be enlarged -- as planned during its original
design -- to accommodate new pumps capable of lifting 450 mld of water from
the river and conveying it to the existing Vaitarna mains at Yewai (a dis-
tance of about 32 km).
Panjrapur Treatment Plant
13.       As originally envisaged, pretreatment facilities now being built at
Panjrapur were to be used to settle Bhatsai river water so that it could be
effectively chlorinated and used prior to completion of the Bhandup treatment
plant, scheduled more than one year later than Panjrapur. With the development
of the second stage of Bhatsai water under the proposed project, filters will
be added at Panjrapur, as well as associated post-chlorination and pH control,
thus providing a complete treatment system for 450 mld of water from Bhatsai
river.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
Yewai Hill Balancing Reservoir
14.       A 120 ml balancing reservoir will be constructed at Yewai Hill, about
1 km from Panjrapur so that the varying rate of demand from consumers may be
met without varying the operating rates of Pise Pumping Station and Panjrapur
Treatment Plant. The reservoir will also provide a reserve to guard against
failure of power or other parts of the system.
Transmission Mains
15.       Studies of alternative transmission systems have recently been com-
pleted to identify the least cost system to convey treated water from Yewai
Hill Balancing Reservoir to Bombay. A transmission main route and ancillary
works have been tentatively identified and further engineering studies and
preliminary design are now proceeding. The transmission main from Yewai to
Bhandup will comprise some 26 km of 2,235 mm diameter main, a 2.75 km long
tunnel and ancillary items. The main from Pise to Panjrapur will comprise a
9 km, 2,235 mm diameter pipe line and associated works.
Distribution Reservoirs and MAins
16.       The original program provided for the addition of some 12 distribu-
tion reservoirs to augment water storage in the city and suburbs, which now
averages about 3-1/2 hours compared with the normally accepted level of 12 to
24 hours. Because of the need to reduce the scope of the first project, only
4 distribution reservoirs were included. Under the proposed project, 14 dis-
tribution reservoirs would be provided, either as entirely new structures or
as renovations/extensions of existing ones. This will increase the storage
capacity to about five hours and provide for more equitable and reliable dis-
tribution of water. The reservoirs would serve the areas of: Trombay,
Malad, Bhandup, Borivli, Dharavi, Ghatkopar, Malabar Hill, Fosbery, Raoli,
Pali Hill and Powai.
17.       New inlet and outlet mains associated with these reservoirs would com-
prise some 80 km of mains having diameters varying from 600 mm to 1,500 mm, and
a 4.3 km tunnel for the Malabar Hill inlet main, which was deferred from the
first project.
Miscellaneous Ancillary Works
18.       To meet increased water demand at Malad and Borivli, three additional
pumps and an additional main would be provided at Bhandup.
19.       Booster pumping stations would be constructed at Raoli, Dharavi, and
Fosbery.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
20        The Tansa gravity mains (102 km), from Tansa dam to Bhandup would be
renovated to restore their hydraulic capacity.
21.       Additional instrumentation to enable new components to be metered and
controlled centrally and equipment for a more intense program to locate losses
in the distribution system would be provided. Operators' quarters, access roads,
stores, workshops and vehicles would be included under the project.
B. SEWERAGE
History and Status of the System
22.       Sewerage facilities for Bombay date back to the 1860s and follow the
development of Vihar Lake, the first water supply system. The Worli outfall,
which discharges sewage above low-water level, was completed in 1880 and by 1900
all sewage within the city was conveyed to Lovegrove and thence to sea via the
Worli outfall. By 1905, the basis of the present, separate system had been
established and subsequent increments of flow were met by duplicating or re-
placing sewers, providing outlets to relieve surcharged sections in develop-
ing areas, laying new sewers in newly developed areas and adding such facili-
ties as Bangaga, Dharavi and Dadar treatment plants.
23.       In an effort to provide a service for the rapidly growing population
extensive relief works were sanctioned in 1948 but these measures, which were
rapidly overtaken by industrial and commercial developments and population
increases, did little to relieve the situation; the need for improvements of
the system was increased by an extension of BMC's boundaries in the 1950s.
24.       In 1963 a specially appointed committee of experts reported to BMC,
recommending expanding and upgrading the system to meet projected flows from
the 1981 population. Although minor improvements were made the facilities
continued to be completely inadequate.
25.       In 1970 Messrs. Binnie and Partners Ltd., UK, Consulting Engineers
studied and reported on the sewerage system, in conjunction with the water
supply study carried out at that time (paragraph 6). These sewerage system
recommendations were replaced by a subsequent plan, prepared by the same
engineers, which made the following proposals for disposals of sewage from



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
the five drainage zones: sewage from Malabar, Worli and Mahim to be pumped to
sea via outfalls at Worli and Bandra; sewage from Chembur would be treated at
proposed plants at Bhandup and Chembur and effluent discharged to Thana Creek;
Marve zone sewage would be treated at a new Marve treatment plant, and Dadar
treatment plant would be expanded to meet the needs of this area.
26.       None of these proposals were implemented but they formed a basis for
proposals contained in a further study and report by consulting engineers,
Metcalf and Eddy Inc. (USA), in association with Engineering Consultants (India).
This most recent (1977) report provides a sewage treatment and disposal plan
for Bombay for the period through 2005, including considerations for land dis-
posal of sewage/sewage effluent, and is a basis for treatment and disposal
systems which BMC includes under the proposed project.
The Present Status
27.       Works originally proposed under the first project (IDA Credit 390-IN)
were primarily limited to the sewage collection and conveyance systems; however
even these proposals were further curtailed when it became necessary to reduce
the scope of the first project.
28.       The foregoing review of the sewage treatment and disposal works for
Bombay indicates that these services have a history of inadequacy which has
become increasingly severe with the growth of the urban area. Nothing has
been done to alleviate these deficiencies other than comparatively minor works
in 1860, 1905, 1948, described in paragraphs 22 and 23. Extensions of sewers
to new areas, some replacement of old sewers and renovation of some of the
older pumping stations have been carried out both in the first project
(Credit 390-IN), and prior to that project, so that some 40 to 50% of the BMC
area is presently served by sewers (Map IBRD 13376) although much of the system
is old and over-loaded.
29.       Sewerage works finally included under the first project were: 50 km
of sewers, eight new pumping stations, renovation of an existing pumping
station and replacement of mechanical and electrical components of sewage
pumping equipment. With the exception of these works, the status of the
sewerafy systems remain unchanged from that described in the first appraisal
report- and as summarized in the Staff Appraisal Report for the proposed
1/ Appraisal Report of Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project, Report
No. 88a-IN, dated April 30, 1973.



_47 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 8
project (paragraphs 1.19, 1.20 and 3.10). The existing components, which re-
present an insignificantly small attempt to serve sewage treatment and dis-
posal needs of 7.6 million people, are as follows:
-   sewage collection and conveyance systems serving 40 to
50% of the BMC area (parts of the system are old and
require replacement and parts are of inadequate capacity);
-   a pumping station, treatment plant and sea outfall at
Lovegrove (circa 1880);
-   eleven ejector stations and fourteen pumping stations
serving the city (down-town) area (circa 1893 to 1905);
-   eight small and totally inadequate sewage treatment works
(to be phased out under the proposed system improvements,
with the exception of two works at Colaba and Dadar).
Works Under the Proposed Project
Sewage Treatment and Disposal
30.       Sewage treatment and disposal facilities would be provided in five
drainage zones as follows:
Malabar (Part)
Primary treatment at Colaba treatment plant and disposal to
Bombay harbor.
Worli and Malabar
Primary treatment at Lovegrove and disposal to the Arabian Sea
via a submarine outfall.
Chembur
Biological treatment in aerated lagoons at Bhandup and Chembur
and disposal to Thana Creek.
Marve
Biological treatment in aerated lagoons at Malad and Versova and
disposal to Malad Creek.
Mahim
Primary treatment at Bandra and disposal to the Arabian Sea via
a submarine outfall.
More detailed descriptions of these facilities are contained in the sections
that follow.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9
Colaba Area
31.       At Colaba 41.1 mld in year 2005 will be discharged into the harbor
after treatment at an expanded and upgraded Colaba Treatment Plant. The
first phase of development included under the project would comprise only
screening and grit removal.
Malabar and Worli Zones
32.       Waste water generated within the remainder of Malabar Zone and all
of Worli Zone would be conveyed to Lovegrove for treatment and disposal. The
first phase of development under the project includes only screening, grit
removal and chlorination before disposal to the Arabian Sea through a one
kilometer long submarine outfall.  The projected design flow in 2005 is 760
mld.
Chembur Zone
33.       Disposal of wastewater from the Chembur Zone, will be to Thana Creek
after biological treatment in aerated lagoons. Pretreatment consists of
screening and degritting, with screenings and grit removal to landfill. Removal
of stabilized sludge from the lagoons will be required at five to eight year
intervals and this will be used for land application or may be hauled to a
landfill disposal.  The projected design dry-weather flow in 2005 is 560 mld.
Marve Zone
34.       Disposal of wastewater from the Marve Zone will be to Malad Creek
after biological treatment in aerated lagoons situated along both sides of the
Creek. Pretreatment, consisting of screening and degritting, will be carried
out at the sites of the existing pumping station at Malad and the existing
treatment plant at Versova. Screenings and grit will be hauled to a landfill
for disposal. Removal of stabilized sludge from the ponds will again be re-
quired at five to eight year intervals and this will be used for land applica-
tion or will be hauled to a landfill for disposal. The projected design dry-
weather flow in 2005 is 410 mld.
Mahim Zone
35.       Disposal of wastewater from the Mahim Zone will be to the Arabian
Sea through an outfall. As for Malabar Zone, the first phase of development
under the project includes only screening, grit removal and chlorination
before disposal to the Arabian Sea through a one kilometer long submarine
outfall. The design flow is 800 mld.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10
Sewerage
36.       Sewage collection and conveyance components in each of these five
zones include pumping stations, forcemains, trunk and branch sewers. Some
of the larger sewers are constructed as tunnels (in preference to more con-
ventional open-cut methods) since this provides a least cost solution under
present conditions in the suburbs.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
I N D I A
THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
% of
Total
Project
Item                            Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total        Cost
- - -Rs Million  - - -         - - -US$ Million - - -
A.   WATER SUPPLY
Civil Works
Intake, Transmission and Treatment
Pumping Stations and Reservoirs         54          -       54          6.3         -       6.3
Transmission Mains                     172        48       220        20.0        5.5     25.5
Treatment                               40          1       41         4.7       0.1        4.8
Distribution
Reservoirs, Pumping Stations
and Chlorination                       116         -       116        13.5          -     13.5
Mains
Trunk Mains (Inlet & Outlet)        111         -       111        12.9         -      12.9
Other Mains                          46         -        46         5.3         -       5.3
Instrumentation                           2        -         2         0.3          -      0.3
Meters                                    1         -         1        0.1          -      0.1
Subtotal                          542        49       591        63.1       5.6      68.7       17
Equipment and Material Supply
Intake, Transmission and Treatment
Pumping Stations and Reservoirs           8       18        26         1.0       2.0       3.0
Transmission Mains                     111       126       237        12.9      14.7      27.6
Treatment                                 9       10        19         1.0       1.2       2.2
Distribution
Reservoirs, Pumping Stations
and Chlorination                        15         -        15         1.7         -       1.7
Mains
Trunk Mains                          50         -        50         5.8         -       5.8
Other Mains                          34         -        34         4.0         -       4.0
Instrumentation                          5         1         6         0.5       0.1       0.6
Meters                                   4         3         7         0.5       0.4       0.9       _
Subtotal                          236      158       394        27.4      18.4      45.8       11



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
Project Cost Estimate
% of
Total
Project
Item                            Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total         Cost
- - - Rs Million  - --         ---US$ Million - - -
B.   SEWERAGE
Civil Works
Sewage Collection and Conveyance
Malabar                                   6         -         6         0.7         -      0.7
Worli                                    24         -        24         2.8         -       2.8
Mahim                                   112        26       138        13.0       3.0      16.0
Marve                                    22         -        22         2.6         -       2.6
Chembur                                130         -       130        15.1          -     15.1
Pumping Stations                            29         -        29         3.4         -       3.4
Subtotal                          323        26       349        37.6       3.0      40.6       10
Equipment and Material Supply
Sewage Collection and Conveyance
Malabar                                   1         -         1         0.1         -      0.1
Worli                                     9         -         9         1.1         -      1.1
Mahim                                    16         -        16         1.8         -      1.8
Marve                                     5         -         5         0.5         -      0.5
Chembur                                 24          -       24         2.8          -      2.8
Pumping Stations                            18         -        18         2.1         -       2.1
Subtotal                           73         -        73         8.4         -       8.4        2
C.   SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Civil Works
Ocean Outfalls                             100       104      204         11.6     12.1      23.7
Treatment and Disposal                      38         -        38         4.4         -      4.4
Pumping Stations                            33         -        33         3.9         -      3.9
Subtotal                          171       104      275         19.9     12.1      32.0        8
Equipment and Material Supply
Treatment and Disposal                      30        22       52         3.6       2.6       6.2
Pumping Stations                            29        30       59         3.3       3.5       6.8
Subtotal                           59        52      111          6.9      6.1      13.0        3



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Project Cost Estimate
% of
Total
Project
Item                             Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total         Cost
- - - Rs Million  - - -        - --US$ Million - - -
D.   COMMON SERVICES
Stores, Workshops, Depots
and Associated Buildings                       16          -       16         1.9         -       1.9
Vehicles and Miscellaneous Equipment           14          -       14         1.6         -       1.6
Subtotal                              30          -       30         3.5         -       3.5          1
E.   OTHERS
Engineering:
Consultants                                 38         43       81         4.4        5.0      9.4
BMC, WSSD                                 171           -     171         19.9          -    19.9
Training                                        6          2        8         0.7        0.2      0.9
Land Acquisition                               33          -       33         3.8          -      3.8
Additional Communal Water
Taps and Latrines                             100          -      100        11.6          -    11.6
Subtotal                             348         45      393        40.4        5.2    45.6           11
TOTAL A to E                           1,782         434   2,216       207.2        50.4   257.6           63
F.   CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                      216         77      293        25.1        9.0    34.1             8
Price                                         711        159      870        82.7       18.5   101.2            25
TOTAL A to F                           2,709         670   3,379        315.0       77.9   392.9           96
G.   CUSTOM DUTY                                         84          -       84         9.7          -      9.7           2
H.   TAXES                                               77          -       77         9.0          -      9.0           2
TOTAL                                  2,870         670   3,540        333.7       77.9   411.6          100



-~~~~~~~~~~~ +
OI ---                              4.o                        + ,,4 +                _+       1 1,;
84               +        l o +  o                                                                   * 1+++    ;+         t1
o e t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+                                    -4- U  t.
H  |  ' B  ''   H   *                           *   O     *               |       4             +              +  TS            tiS +
-I-*                          *  ~ n- 1 +                                   $^0  
4.                                                                                                                      +o 
0.1~~~~~~  II  $1 ii                                              I..V                                                      V
+  D                                       V4                                 r          !               0  g   ' 
B .. ~~~~14S1            *                                     l IC t    t,4t*W  
e;~ ~ ~     ~    ~~  --   -0      TI                      #                                                         WO                      t
|    t   !  &      Y        E         b        t                               ,    X        rffi^    ,)           X              t 4






54                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ASWEA 4
INDIA  THE SECONDSBOMBA'YWATER lUPY AND SEWERA GE PROJECT
OR..NIZ.TIO ~CHART OF BOMBAYUNICIPAL CORPORATION
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
A-HX     DL[>   m}                                      I                            X                            G-
AE~ PA                                              T L 
C        W~WEE4~AAA~      
7::,,AWEAAAACAAAA~~~~~~~~~~~~A0A0A0~T~






-55 -                                                    ANNEX 5
a,  0 000          Drvao 400000    00   *   -.SP        .000        005 :2 M~-  -C    .3:4 Mo  .3 .5  * .5 .P    30    000:P
@o5000-          t o  ~         n q F-1 WW 3.0 4 5   on  OeSO W n vP      . F    -pt4 #5V150Won3455-    -1 IV  a-;
H                        I- PR  qv.      a,W4Jtvap15    4I'10    In 50               Il5in50        3a 5V.- '395-    e   a
5@41--~~~~-~~  5-P'~~~  ~~  -.        -    5fl13M1          3455-NS@AJUW    @~~~~~~~~~4
C3  0  1-6C     IC -1 C-C   CPC1C  .    Cvv 05 CDS                                     a 3, 5      5 eV 34a      c 0  v
obCO   --s    asa a,          0.'IO00 05P. 0                                 lo00..5.*    PM                lo     0
so 300 0P      0      4          I'     1@00 0 1 3                  @05       35o0f  05   'l30 V 
45@40~~~    ~ ~   31050    WIP'1310   .01 -O4fVO    5035500    3-.5W43$5I.030   P.O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
40 co         4       . 40          0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 5 8 3 0 4-m-
05000'P. C   v                            C)  C) 0-31 - 3 3. 5-    OOS5-   3 g4ac 314-fUI0U-00. 350C3138'a     3f531an01
Q N a0S c~  go     4a a1  ai  an OaIn a o 000on0ona a.     oIi  t 3   .a G         a.00.3     .5I' saW    03a         -  000
co    V    ..         ..  04 0. .  6V V          VV  310V V 0     0    V V I V a     V         Va V .30V 04 V            0
& a= o  C~    & 0- v0 44n        = t   on51    ~*  c =P 104'ru0~- 0U531   aO.3.aOUF- oiI   alV -indS  e--.05W5 000   400C
a<   ~    a ,-C~zk         f. 3s z1c 0         v -9ok               Ia"g- CISO  0   5.31   31Iv-- za   ..3a0   5-
m35-5-O                      t mIMD                                    a a eV5                             3     in
of                                  5 -5   33    5                                                   3
a 
c   C,  5  P         ul  ~           ~C P0  ,C 0C, 2  ~93     2     b 3   4I 1v                               ~N        V4
w                                ev~ 5000  Z0  0~ O 5 ~t  10    00-00-5le001030 0050.-0003m0)  I.Ian0 tC~-a    0D* N=               8300~
ctct4vt            V     V       V a0           VV        V V      -5    83 0  V81*010110 0  50 V V o    V   V 3083-.0  V ns-
8-4  ~~~~~.   5Q4-~~~~~-a  ~~~~I'~~~   40  31014                       Ufli         3135#-'313-.331   VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~ow    e  -am o
U              55-~.                               5                     5              5   3           3   5 It3                 4
CN. 0BC~c           C.4  3   .          n U   ~~ =  .<   C  2 3 D 0a~  a                 3~CPC  4 5    36o   3 .m    aO
C.N3 cC M 1  2              & CPM o on    4 fanc  Ino    PIn    (Iafcm4        t   inIn*t                             I    *
OD.       V.VO        .5~   .#.V       V         8  VV   . VIVV               -           V0313   t.o V I V   a   V.3.    0  V 
03  aa  at    a.  a aa C. C            0.5.  a.00t0a Pit 0.00                 3000            503    0                  0
a   V0V05-      . . V. V    VeW V0            .333 .   4''o               5-300           5   1       33V3            8
n3 44-.-. 1    30~ a~  I 40% m    1- In v v%;    *% W      .aw    VI-   I   381* %9  ZSP-  Z~  VlgV-.383    me4a -.
S         ~~~~~~~as
C2 N ~ ~ C ' -   ' a C z fC,C,=Ca4,C,=                       C1C  3 3      D0C  PC  2     ~-0 -W04  3    C    O4 
coa<, ~ =0w    r,P_C2 V~9~m .-GIin inic rf a &ao  ~ o  - 3oi w    t  ~ 4  m.a 3 a    .  - s- - i Zo
4I P
v                          C.             0 0 08 0 0                   03 0 0 o1 4 8 03 3                       c-
vC3  C~    OW   31- 0      f o    n t                   wkn         fi   -*1alO  S  5       CD 4D5 a3 44 033  Co I
0  ~ ~ ~~                                       5                    1 a5   3gm                     3   n    8I    3Om    Om
0   U~~~~~~PI as
v3. N          .c  z - f o~   .c~C.4  DC,C,C,C  xC  2 D    3   = 1  0O CS   3,5                 C), 3  co3 ~ o
H         Vn
05000    '25-0~~~~~~~4Oe.4~  45-11_1%    350 0 *403C10  S1-05-081 II4* 1~1V   1~  ,1*0040        qm5-3            a,41
~~5-N  at  at    a as  400    0.5  0   .0.~~~~~~~~In0005'D C~ n4 00 0.5,4mt 03  ooC),   .5o.     03o 
39 g# eO_              %O1      NI OIS 3- ,53    3                                                           3 
3                             1                    5              1~~~~~~~~~zh.b  3  3             at
U rv          Zx                                                       9wi
N               ~        a                                                                         'lI
le0Z014    04143               0 1         000M000-        l 500000f   C00 00 0 00 0)                             0131
%-~ C,06   0"1101%04   '20-                   0083co.00             1     kgQ35.1-34LOS404                             at
tatc        eta.,I,0.1  0    00                   o0r  I.0. .539     .0 .                      .       0. 000
0  5000~~~.   05-48340   51*410    0031-00501383008430000 33~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .838330133OD4orMA304
.0Docdo00_t4                     Z CT  OD 531354   51                          Li 58Z* 030                         co433103  1-*
=510       83o.50-C Z                                   3           3..58        Au    331
35-5-                   5~~~~~~~~E L ;*=    1)                 5                        Z or5 3          81
IS                          1                     5             8~~~~~~~~~~~a  P  5L  3   8  *      *
Z  4C                      m    rI  1                                           w-          -   L Nu :    90c
o    N~~~~0                                   W m0  LC~i  - 0                   ea          o w1.                   t
331W-oat ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   310  o      S              5~~~~~~~~~,l a. ~    3   3 5W 3-     v3  
N  8.      1                                                                    Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. I    t  ..
a.D- 1   2Z  2 C t&  0K3    .   o               -.  8Z                                       uC        
m co- CD'.r9L . XW 0 -        a9   ~04                            O              z        0           ZZ      i        t
WM  wbeo    ' U~ W                                                                           5- c 0 _    An    . 0   L1_ih -   2 6    41Z



INDIA: THE SECOND BOMBY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FLOW OF FUNDS
WSSD                                                                 RS.. MILLION
FY                            Actual          Budget                                         Projected
1976        1971        1978       1979        1980        1981        1962        1983        19844       1965
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION         205,70      363,20       Oq9,93     312,19      4437,S3     469,68      475,60      552.89      516,73      727.5'
NON-CASH EXPENSES                     0,00        0,00        0.00        2,10       2,10        2,10        2.10         2,10        0.00        0,00
oo;;-w4|;*  "*011.>--;             9.......4Fl  90,00 w|-w*- 04|l  0 ... ""ie  0----- W'0----9w    e!w _    V-------
GROSS INTERNAL ENERATION           205,70       363,20      309,90     314,29      439,63      471,78      477,70      554,99    52,73        727,54
IDA CREDIT                            0,00        0,00        0,00-     41,42      219a70      402,87      407,05      351,41      203,09         0.00
GOM LOANS                            o0,00        0,00        0,00      23,76       844,59     139,9S      161,09      163,71      108,82         0,00
OTHER LOANS                         160,70     116,00      100,00      4400,00     190,00         0,00        0,00        0,00     120,00      240,00
TOTAL LOANS                        160,70      18l,00      160,00      465,15      494,35      542,01      628,14      515,1t      4)191      240,00
TOTAL SOURCES                      366,40      58leO      4469,90     779,47      933,98    1014.59    1105,84    1070,10         98,644    967,S4
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT                 0,00        0,00        0,00     106,0a    449,74        783,36      905,04      796,50      499,28         0,00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST                  8,40      21,80       34,00       60.10       92,67       43,26       82,71      121,37      149,28         0,00
OTMER WORKS/WATER 1/               174,40      251,00      480, 00     4484,00     253,00        0,00        0,00         0,00     199,00      600,000 
OTMER WORKiSEWERA6E-1/               38.80      49,50      103,00       67,00       29,00        0,00         0,00        0,00        0g00        0,00 
TOTAL INVESTMIPNT                  2211,60     322,0       617.00       17,12      624441      826,62      9 7,82      9)7,67      8447,51     600.00
IDA CREDIT AMRTIZATION                0,00       0,00        0,00        0,00        0,00        0,00        0.00        0,00        0,00        6,50
GOM LOAN AMORTIZATrION                0,00        0,00        0,00        0,00        0.00       0,00        0,00         0,00        0.00        2,30
OTHER LOANS AMORT;ZATXON            .8,70        35,70      33,70       37,20       32,90       29,60       29,90       30,860      30,10      101,30
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                 3m' T O       5,70       33,70       37,20       J2S90       29,60       29r90       30,60       38,1Q       1t0,10
OPER,7INTEREST LONG T,DEBT           4,50       43,00       41,70       3,5S0       32,20      113,00      110,30      108,10      113,00      271,0t
is,10 ~"  "; . a;m "QU.  p s "e m  "; O   Ww"N    "'7* ;;v a             --- 0CtorC   `7;I"'N~0  aCC7$~ ..  nf
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST          544,50      43100       41,70       35,50       3e,20      113,00      110,30       08, 0      113,00      171,GI
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                  9 ,20       78,70       75,40       72,70       *5,10      142,6o      140,20      136,70      S51210      381,11
INCREASE IN WORK,CAPITAL            53,60      '78,40   "164310         30,05       85,37       58,97       020.08      15,63       440,0a    013,S7
INVESTMENT8                          0, 00     -870       -59,40       638,30     .36980      a11,50        0,00        0,00        0,00         0,00
DEFERRED EXPENSES                     0,00       S0,50        0,00      -2,10       .2,10       .2,10       -2,10       .2,10         0,00        0,00
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 366,40      501,l0      46990       779,47      933,98    1014,5S 9    1OS584    1070,10        95S,64      967,54      |
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                    2,26        4,61       44,11       4.32        6,75        3,31        3,41        4,00         3,49        1,91 
1 CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTmENT    51.67            88.27      .38.01l/    3S.69       45.43        39.82       34.17       45.35       44.32       57.74
Other loans are for the completion of works under the first project and for works oubsequent to the second project.
2/ Actual FY78 expected to exceed 40%.



INDIA: THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET
WSSD                                                              RS. MILLION
-FY                        -Actual                               _Pd                 _         erojected
1976        1977        1978        1979        19TY        1961        1962        1983         1980        1985
A8 e 78
FIXED AOSETS XN OPER,              3138,10    3138,10    3134,10    3317,77    5616,61    6223,77   8659,44    7125,60    7$41,39   12111 .1
M MtA.  ACCUMNCEPMIATION           I0SZ,91    1106,51    1170,53    1316,7a    IS16,54    1781,16    2032,60    2333,Aa   Rbb6,31   3088,('
NET FXED A8ssm                   2055S19    2031,59    1967,57    2039,04    4300,07    44062,1    4626,84    4792el4   49i5670    9022
WORK IN PROGREs4                    315,10      637,40    1254,40    1971,52        572.13    1398675    2386583   33040J4Q    4t,2eOO           799
CA4Sl                                75,90      271,00       40,30      1361)3    185,66        234,08        1aa298   a21 ih, 7     0  0 la     E,4801
AC80U7Ts  RECEIVABLE                153,80      186,30      151,00      13,82a    169,76        179,81       176073      195 l5s0    109,ot      f.745'
CONTRACT RECEIVADLE8                 51,10       80,90       66,10       51,10         6, 0so     39,30      045,00       40,00       is 5a,0     30,-
INVENTORIES                          98 00       96,90       76,90       5s,60       9l,e0       96,70       111,30      103,in       C', is 77j7sI I
MXisrELLANeOU8                        4,00        0,a0        0,00        0,00         0,00        0, 00       0,00        0 , co       0 0         O   .
TOTAL CURRENT A878ET                362,80      63i530      3 4030      386,65      483,02      551,89      544,31       SS4,83 X7     a 8,2 3    6,75.e 
INVESTMENTS                         156,70      108,00        8,60       5o,30       11,50         0,00        0, 0 0      0,0q         0 0 0         o
DEFERR7D EXPEN8ES                     0, 0 0     1, ta50     10,50        6,40         6,30        4,20        2,10        0, 00        a9000       0,?a)
~Jmwvmvmm  .UUUa3an  asuxmo,    smanse~ aummeuam  u,auama s                uiaa m~u   ~                           
T7TOl AETS                         2909,79    3462,79   3667,37    453,61   5369962   6411,1s   7351,                 8640,10,     @ a 7,9 7 IS ;I X 7770
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY  - GRANTS                    397,60      397,60       97,60      397,60      397,60      397,60       397,60      397,60      39760 t7o a  39
REV LUATION SURPLUS                 8840,0      884,50      8840,0    1022,23    11a0,96    1483997    1778,35    2102,23    20 ,40712^    97
OPE$AT1ONAL SURPLU3                 379,29      675,89      060,07   1090,50    1390,33    1608,50    1825,69    211193    2356,05    as576,3
TOT4L EQUITY                     1661,39    1957,99   2161,17    2510,33   2952,89    3472,11    4001, a   461,t87   5191,4   58759,09
L0W' TERM D8ET(BT                  I007 ,0    1192,10    1310400    1707,107   22 17   27 4,04    3322,I                3799,40      &12121   43 1,27
ACCOGUJTrS PAYABLE                  134 00      1g6,8          0,        et,0           ,00      II,0           ,0       120,0g      1- 3,00      t09o,
DFPOOXTS t 7 13, 9 0                             63, l  5       3 C., 0              i ,00  33 , 0  , 0 3 *t  1,0            ,00        0 , 0 a     0,@ 
g 66l  NyTW?          3               7,09       1,                         ,           ,     7o 0A 34, 320  30F  0 t          0 i  0   >          96 -9
35 70       33,7                    u,9P        2, -;  -c, 3D   ,                    3          4P 0, r9^ -3
TTz.;CJl53 L57  Sgi), 840c&                     m2Sal73       0 e 9     Ats  ft6   2035Q            . at)2   2Ea4 a      23 agq~,     yJ3gS k!
42   P2.M  027!63g g>>DCr             0,0f        0, Q00      6r         0,0 0                    od0o        O,O0  6o'                0,'         0,
S'@, P     o     5   0  i a  .     '4 i , a C,    , o    4 ,  43   7 6  40 30  $  '    C t Jt1 J   ?  0  >       9
TOv-s s    _    UTYL7AkjMi IW 0c ;09Q,    30 2,            3      7    0453,81      336952   t3601 ,1      73551,03   86400,t9      9@v 3 y    1 366,00
*WORKiIN  CAPITAL.wMI.LION          177,90      356,30      193,20      223,25      308,62       367,59      347,51      363,15      323,13       3  095      k
*CURRENT RATIO                        1a59 q,03                1,82        1,97        2,36        2,56        2,39        2,41         1,68        1,82
X DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)                 37,76       37,84       37,82       41,04       42063        43,97       45,36       45,17       44,25        42,75



-58 -                                 ANNEX 8
Page I
INDIA
THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Notes on Financial Projections
Income Statement (Annex 5)
Revenues
1.        Revenues have been projected each year as follows:
(a) income from metered water has been increased to reflect
the additional water supply available and its proposed
distribution (Table 3-2) and the water metering and
sewerage programs; the latter leads to a corresponding
but smaller reduction in tax revenues;
(b) income from water and sewerage benefit taxes has been
increased in accordance with the projected growth in
total rateable value in Greater Bombay;
(c) after allowing for extra revenues from (a) and (b) above,
the FY78 tariff levels have been adjusted each year
to meet the requirements of the financial covenant to
be entered into by BMC; pending consideration by BMC of
a recently completed tariff study the existing tariff
structure has been assumed in future years;
(d) an allowance of 3% per annum has been made for possible
bad debts.
Operating Costs
2.        Each component of operating costs is based upon information prepared
by and discussed with BMC or their consultants and is at January 1978 prices.
With one exception figures have been adjusted for inflation at 7% per annum,
which is closely in line with the Bombay consumer price index movement during
the last 12 years. Power costs have been inflated by 12-1/2X per annum,
reflecting the higher trend of increases in Bombay over the same 12 year
period.
3.        Employee numbers have been projected having regard to newly com-
missioned works under the first and second Bombay projects, the need for
a continuing higher standard of asset maintenance and an ongoing program to
detect water losses. Additional costs have been calculated using average pay
for different employee groups.



- 59 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        Power and chemical costs are based upon estimated consumption of
these items. Maintenance (materials) costs are based on 1% of the asset
values in use by WSSD.
5.        Depreciation has been calculated on the expected life of assets
and approximates to 2% on existing assets, revalued at current costs, and
2-1/2% on assets commissioned under the first and second projects.
6.        Although no formal agreement between GOM and BMC has yet been made
bulk supply charges for water have been increased to reflect BMC's share of
the cost of Stages I and II of the Bhatsai dam, by means of an annual payment
over 20 years covering construction cost, interest and annual maintenance.
7.        Administration and training costs are not expected to increase in
real terms from the present level. The Halalkhore service charge made by BMC
for emptying privies, cesspools and septic tanks is expected to decrease from
Rs 12 million to Rs 2 million by FY84 as a result of the sewerage program.
Flow of Funds Statement (Annex 6)
Sources
8.        Internal:  40% of the funds required to finance the project will be
generated from internal sources in accordance with a covenant to be agreed
with BMC. This percentage rises to 60% on completion of the project.
9.        External loans amounting to 60% of the project cost will be made
available by GOM, including the proceeds of the IDA credit.
Applications
10.       The first project is due for completion during FY80.  Expenditure
on the second project is spread over the five years FY79 through FY84.
Interest during the construction period of the first and second projects is
capitalized. An ongoing water supply investment program of Rs 600 million
p.a. is assumed on completion of the second project.
Debt Service
11.       Loans for the first project have been made available at 6-1/4% for
25 years with a four-year grace period.  Loans to finance the second project
will be made available at 6-3/4% for 25 years with a four-year grace period.
Additionally WSSD is responsible for servicing debt (including sinking fund
contributions) transferred from BMC on April 1, 1974.
Changes in Working Capital and Other Movements
12.       Working capital is represented by current assets less current
liabilities, assumptions about which are set out below. A minimum cash
requirement of Rs 85 million to Rs 100 million has been assumed. Deferred



- 60 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
expenses in the balance sheet as at 31 March 1978 will be written-off over 5
years. Investments (see para. 15 below) are progressively realized during
the project period.
Balance Sheets (Annex 7)
13.       A number of minor modifications were made to the balance sheets
of WSSD for FY76 and FY77 as a result of incorrect treatment in those years.
14.       Fixed Assets:  A revaluation of fixed assets at current prices was
completed during FY78 and the effects will be incorporated in WSSD's balance
sheet at March 31, 1978. For comparative purposes (rate of return) the
balance sheets for the two prior years have been adjusted to show the effect
of asset revaluation from April 1, 1975. Fixed assets in operation have been
increased on completion of works under the first and second projects. Assets
in operation have been revalued each year in accordance with the assumed rate
of local inflation.
Work in progress represents capital expenditure and capitalized
interest during the construction period.
15.       Investments are the amounts owed to WSSD since its establishment
on April 1, 1974 by BMC and BEST and which will be fully repaid by FY81.
16.       Inventories represent 3 months supply of chemicals and materials
together with 10% of annual capital expenditure to cover stocks of cement,
steel and other items.
17.       Consumer receivables are assumed to decrease annually from 25%
of annual revenues in FY79 to 20% in FY84. Earlier billing and collection
difficulties are expected to be overcome by March 31, 1978 and a significant
improvement made in the recovery of arrears during FY79. Other receivables
represent advances to contractors for which an average of 5% of capital
expenditure is assumed.
18.       Equity is represented by certain Government grants prior to April 1,
1974 together with loans redeemed at that date under BMC's sinking fund method
of amortization.
19.       Revaluation surplus represents the difference between gross revalued
assets at April 1, 1975 and the computed accumulated depreciation of those
assets at the same date, and the surplus arising from each subsequent annual
revaluation of assets.
20.       Accumulated surplus is the surplus arising each year on the operating
account after meeting operational interest.
21.       Accounts payable represent amounts due to contractors and suppliers.



- 61-                                          ANINEX 9
I N D I A
THE SECOND B0M1BAY WATER SUPPY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Tariff Structure
(Rupees)
Percentage of
Total Revenues
1973-74     1974-75     1975-76    1976-77        1977-78         1977-78
(A) WATER SUPPLY
Premises with Metered Supply - per 10,000 litres
Domestic, education, coaching and premises                2.50         2.50        2.50      2.50            2.50)
with shops not requiring water for trade.
Religious and charitable establishment, welfare                                                                  )
premises, dispensaries, metered standpipes,                                                                                  13.5%
Governmnet and Railways.
Domestic with lawns exceeding 25 m2, swimming             5.00         5.00        5.00     10.00           10.00)
pools, fountains, sports grounds, food prepara-
tion premises, public utility undertakings,
private hospitals and nursing homes
Offices, banks, laundries, water-consuming                 8.o0         8.00       10.00     20.00           20.00           36.8%
industries, restaurants, mills, electricity
and gas production plants, stables, markets
garages and service stations, hotels and lodging
houses, Port Trust.
The foregoing are subject to a minimum charge by              9.00         9.00        9.00      15.00          15.00
meter size 15 mm to 80 mm and above                   to  90.00    to 90.00    to 90.00 to 140.00        to 140.00
Premises with Unmetered Supply
Water tax based on property value or ccmpcuded              7%           7%          7%       7%              7%               3.4%
charges based on tle following:        -   ___
Temporary premises - per day                         11.00       14.00        14.00     21.00           21.00)
to    300.00   to 300.00   to 300.00 to 450.00        to 450.00)
Offices, banks, restaurants, lodging                 18.00        10.00       10.00     15.00           15.00)           0.9%
houses per month - per tap                    to     25.00    to 32.00    to 32.00  to 35.00         to 35.00)
Charitable establishments - per year                 15.00       18.00        18.00     18.00           18.00)
Other premises per month - per tap                    7.00        7.00         7.00     11.00           11.00)
All Premises
Water Benefit Tax (from 1/4/74)                              ---         3%           3%       5%             5%              13.1%
En-route Supply (Metered) - per 10,000 litres
Industries                                             9.00   9.00/10.00  10.00/12.00  12.00/24.00      24.00)
Municipalities (Thana and Bhiwandi)                    2.85   2.85/3.10    3.10/3.40    3.10/3.40         3.40)           2.9%
Meter Charges
Rentals 25 mm to 500 mm - per mmnth                   3.00         3.OQ         3.O      4.00            4.00]
.to    1000   to 170.00   to 170.00 to 340.00         to 340.00C            2.3%
Testing 15 mm to over 200 mm - per month      t      15.00        22.00       22.00      22.00          22.00)
_   (innjmlin*  remnving and refitting)       to    123.00   to 173.00   to 173.00 to 173.00        to 173.00)
(B) SEWERAGE
Premises sewered and with metered water supply              32%                              charge equivalent        >          13.0%
to 50% water charge
Premises unsewered or unmetered:
Sewerage tax based on property value                  31%            32          3-%        4%             4%               6.0%
All Premises
Sewerage Benefit Tax (from 1/4/74)                   ^__            2%            2%        3%              3%              8.1%
ji00.0%



- 62 -                         ANNEX 10
I N D I A
THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA                    Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                   at end of Quarter                    Cumulative
and Quarter                      US$ Million                      Percentage
1978/79
Fourth                                1.0                              0.5
1979/80
First                                 4.2                              2.1
Second                                8.8                              4.5
Third                                10.0                              5.1
Fourth                               17.0                              8.7
1980/81
First                                27.4                             14.0
Second                               35.8                            18.3
Third                                37.9                             19.4
Fourth                               50.6                             25.8
1981/82
First                                69.5                             35.5
Second                               80.5                            41.1
Third                                83.1                            42.5
Fourth                               99.6                            50.8
1982/83
First                               124.4                            63.5
Second                             133.8                             68.3
Third                               136.2                            69.5
Fourth                              150.2                            76.6
1983/84
First                              171.3                             87.4
Second                             177.0                             90.3
Third                               178.4                            91.0
Fourth                             187.0                             95.4
1984/85
First                              196.0                            100.0



INDIA: THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AN) SEWERAGE PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS                                                  RS. MILLION
EY                           Actual          BudRet                                        Prpejted
1976       1977       1976        1979       1900       1981        1982       1963       1964        1985
macas.     .     550a555 55fla - -.**  _9w555 Sseaasae.--s a a. -ass 5550**Se5  _--.s,. fl5* --55heasS-a-a5 ---e-a e-_a aa.. a....
ADMINISTRATION
TOTAL EMPLOYEES                11800,00  11000.00  11600,00  125SO,00  12650,00  13500,00  13650,00  14200,00  14600,00  15200,00
EMPLOYEES PER 1000 CONNECT        71,57      71,46       70,73      74,47      73,89       70,09      78,07       79,98      a1.29      63,66
X PERSONNEL COST ON TOTAL         50,54      43.56       46,10      40.85      29,87       29,00      30,58       30,02      29,76      21,61
COSTS
pausa
EXCHANGE RATE lUS5 *               8.60        6.60       8.60       8.60        6,60       8,60       8,60        8,60       6,60        8,60
OPERATING COSTSaMILLION           92,20      0os,60    143,60      163,10    269,60       312.10     327,70      376,10    41.3Q0   646.00
COST USS/ M3 SOLD                  0,02        0,03       0,03       0,04        0,06       0,06       0,07        0,07       0.06        0,11
COST US 5/CONNECTION/MONTH         5,42        6,20       0,34      10,53       15,27      17,49       18,16      20,53      22,57      34,SO
ACCUM,PRQJECT INVEST.USS           0,00        0,00       0,00      12,33      64,62    155,71    260,9S    353,57          411,62    411,62
ACCUMoPROJECT INVEST,LOCAL         0,00        0,00       0,00     106,02    555,76   1339,12   2244,16   3040,66   3539,94   3539,94
ACCUM,PROJECT INVEST,U3S           0,00        0t00       0,00      12,33      64,62      15S,71     260,95     353,57    411,$6          0,00
ACCUM, X PROJECT INVIST,           0,00        0,00       0,00       2,99      15,70       37,83      63,40       85,90     100.00        0.00
REVENUES
OPERATING REVENUISUMILLION    297,90    466,80    453.50    495,29    707,33    781,78    803,30    928,99    945,03.  1374,34
AVERAGE TARIFF US I/ M3 *OLO    0,07           0,11       6,ll       O,l2        0,14       0,16                   0,1b       0.19        0,22
AVERAGE REVENUES US$/ M3           0,07        0,11       0,11       0,12        0,14       0,16       0,16        0,18       0,19        0,22
FINANTIAL RATIOS
X RATE OP RETURN                   8,79       16,62      12,30      12,28       10,48       7,56       7,20        8,37       7,33        7,00
X OPERATING RATIO                 30,95      22,53       31,66      36,97       30,14      39,92      40,79       40,48      44,26       47,06
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                 2,26        4,61       4,11       4,32        6,75       3,31       3,41        4,00       3,49        1,91
X RECEIVABLES IN BILLING          51,63      39,74       34,1       2 25,00    24,00       23,00      22,00       2t,OO      20,00       20,00
X CONTRIBUT,TO INVESTMENT         51.67       88.27      38.01'-    33, 69      45 .4 3    39 .82     34 . 17     45 . 35    44.32       57. 74
X DEBT/CDEBT+EQUITY)              37,76       37,84      37,82      41,04      42,83       43,97      4S,36       45,17      44,25       42,75
CURRENT RATIO                       1,59       2,03       1,82       1,97        2,36       2,58       2,39        2,41        1,68       1,82
1/ Actual FY78 expected to exceed 40%.



- 64 -
ANNEX 12
I N D I A
THE SECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in a Project File
1.        Report on Water Supply and Sewerage for Greater Bombay, Binnie
and Partners India Ltd., Consulting Engineers, September 1971.
2.        Supplementary Report on Water Supply and Sewerage for Greater
Bombay, Binnie and Partners India Ltd., Consulting Engineers, September
1972.
3.        Report on Methods for Treatment and Disposal of Wastewaters
from Greater Bombay, Metcalf and Eddy Inc. and Environmental Engineering
Consultants, July 1977.
4.        Appraisal of Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project, Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International
Development Association, No 88a-IN, April 30, 1973.
5.        Report on Tariff Studies for Water Supply and Sewerage Services
of the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences, Bombay, December 1977.
6.        Draft Feasibility Report for Bombay's Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Bombay II), Tata Consulting Engineers, Bombay, January 1978.
7.        Extracts (on land acquisition) from the BMC Act 1888.
8.        Extracts from the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act 1976.
9.        Extracts from the Maharashtra Private Forests Act 1975,
10.       Extracts from the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act 1966.
11.       Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act 1976.
12.       The Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Act 1974.
13.       Draft Feasibility Report, Part I Water Resources, for Bombay
Metropolitan Region Development Authority, Kirloskar Consultants Ltd.,
Pune, India, January 1978.
NOTE: Items 7 through 12 are available in IBRD legal files.



IRRD  13372
: l \ X [( ; Ir l ~~~~V-                                                                                    ,        ECOND  BOMBAY  WATER  SUPPLY  AND  SEWERAGE  PROJECT
1x,    t                  j         .   -  - -   i<, 52C Lvo.                              A           ~~~~~~RFGIONAL WATER RESOURCES AND BMC TREATMENT AND TRAN5M41SSION
'' /- g . - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FACILITIES
!  q  '-  -   l  \\   I                       SI,PSDL?AR    ''  fS'  r?  ISC  2 S L AU               /                      [XISTINL    BOMBAY I   BOMSAY 11I BOMBA   1
| 0                                           '-/ < t v A~                                    -R 'Ce                                                                      o
A                                                                   ->          -I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                  unl
X <-ovv op                    '0                                                 .                                   .9A                             '   MCSpvAe
t X-o': r  bornIon                                                                 ,2/.S,                          -   /"i j                 cYior-  .  Rlw
-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     e
--'.                        I                                        rsrn,Oee ~~~~JIZoe  ere   b  Bri roet MIC
As- R.. rr                                                                                                                                       Zone served by Staked Water 5i,>ply ScHem(GOMe ;
| 0 0  ~   ~1; $                     \                      7                \                   \$0j; r  ;                                                                                    m t o~~~s BC SIppy A,e  a     1;30
i  me . j e e L P> r@s - tr eM -& e 6ans S Xzat C .reWk 0s te ss k vuv>~~Bhosai rr,ati   ComandAre   Stge 
Row .,sL,,. ,,,,   _   _   veroVll < OratwoGCorl nRonad
/   11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N1E
-                                        EXaTINO    BOMBAY I   BOMBAY IF
i                                 -      - . -                  C)'                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" .- -A                  ~            eeror
5t, e                 Z/Ave,-                                                  MaN PIp me
T ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I                              -nco                                  e;.    oni
T./  P=..i.






IBRD - 13373-
US SR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MOflHlN10A
I N D I A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ Tpo-oooID 
SEODNOBA                    ATRSUPY NRSWRAEPRJC
'0-   , ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~OA
C'                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~p             4C                                                                OUSO  WTER  NPLY O977
I    N    0  0  I'i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U ~
NATtONAL  PARK ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                         R00P70000  OO  II
A REY M161( COLON ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~707 OJOR7500 OE
122,5W)  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ so,                 ,>         100D E.-R 1   -'  AIE
A R A,~  IA  ili
4I 0170R
o        2                                0~~~~rR
LMILEST  070"'0,0,,
M I L F S~~~~~~~~~~~~~077I,O7,0~777>77 07,1> 7






9/1 7/m                                                 0 v9  -  d
01   9      ~~9J99919    i                                                                                9        W g ?_;,|_ i   , S+ t..                                                   .
'' 3 < t l     X     ~      ~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~ =-  , -
53WVN UNV S71E VA,MnOS OUVM V ___~4\ ' ' ' '                                                          9N  O 109/   '-D                   9  I W t 3 a V V . \ :  . \ u \ * Wt \ < \\10   \      ;3-
ID]F08d  ~~~~~OV~~~]M]~~ CNV  AlddflS  ~~~~~~~~]1VM   AV~~~~VO~~ CNQAld-   N
1'L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~I -  I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          ~            ~~~~                                               ~~~~~                                                       ~                   
sUno  61 3O:a,-'"'"'''i"'',  ,. Alddns-  uN'. jo  Ls\ r\io
1D3l0d 3OVd3NS CNV AlddllS Xd31M tAVwoq aN0D3S                                                 uq-o                                     l  ;- ,                                                                <                                         .-d4
L  3Lal HOavw . \ . .... L \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V     
;P/Ec- Q 891






t o 12  7/       _     _ -     -                                 r2  
C k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
//             A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
/~~~~~~
>}'24. f='         h           /            X                      7~~N.      -
'N'1'
: 0   =:  f   tS.  < -          4t   8 -Zr    t        0           -. - z     t
I   .                                                                                 /,',  -..................,s  
g '  s      @         <         $        s        >  Cl  Zr    Zr Z '  rC
i.-






INDIc                                          H P1 a  r ---- - > < X _ 1BRD 13376
,.    CPO.MT  IIECCFH_X                                                          > |         |il                                                                                                                                                                 N  D) I A                                             s
-SCOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SEWAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
[    ,  ~~~I Q<(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EMYE51. St M9 SEME  :.N'sweiAREAS Me9ESUEBSMOYMEMAYIJEDT
SE-EMM AREAS UNDER RASIBYAR IM6ERC'E
REARSED AREAS IMPROVED UNDES DOMEAR  11 PROLET
F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DORA= , . s l . h 1   DMA 'lACE ZORE E OUNDARIES
!90r!U7RreK6tzze.clusWeev501) h \ / , j~~~T"                                                                                                                                               I                                                 G  I4    I ;/  RATER EOMEA~YMUNICIPALLMVIT
P ce arre/Sra4co or sw:n bo zZa rAs ) j 1o A T I O 31 A                                                                                                              L    P A P h z  ~  \  ~ - ' ! / S ; Y;NT . "m Ser a.AtoI05!N l = ; ; -   E  OSA AIRSl
, <, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   -'- -   R TRAEIVR EVUSMAS_.IMO:>
ORE             REROE SAM 
:*              __:I 0         _             .  T
*    U  ~~~~~Aj                   o        4M
0                                      TAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~RI5MM
F                                           * I             *~~~~~tf/1tYAA$RiSI                       ti 
I                                                                      MA  RI RVRMOSMIV                                 VC~~~~~  5>0R POR
2                                                                                                                                          PEE....
IV      
I                                                                                                                                                                 EI                25 
42                                       14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A  R A;             ,-/Al                                                                                              PADI4    I,A



