CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 842 IN
Maharashtra Agreement
(Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
Dated November 13, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 842 IN
MAHARASHTRA AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 13, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter
called Maharashtra).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred and ninety-six million
dollars ($196,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition, inter
alia, that Maharashtra agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date between the Association
and the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (hereinafter
called BMC), BMC has agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) Maharashtra and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purpose of the Credit will be
accomplished. To that end, Maharashtra and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views


﻿- 2 -
through their representatives with regard to the performance of
their respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance
by BMC of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the manage-
ment, structure, administration, operations, resources and expen-
ditures of WSSD and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
(b) Maharashtra shall take all action which shall be neces-
sary on its part to enable BMC to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for this purpose and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance of any such obligation
of BMC.
Section 2.02. Maharashtra shall relend the proceeds of the
Credit made available by the Borrower, to BMC under appropriate
arrangements to be entered into between Maharashtra and BMC.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such arrangements
shall include the following terms:
(i) proceeds to be made available for a term of 25
years from the date of the first advance by
Maharashtra to BMC, including a grace period of
four years;
(ii) interest to be charged at the rate of 6-3/4% per
annum, payable semiannually or annually, on
amounts withdrawn and outstanding; and
(iii) proceeds to be made available promptly as required
to enable BMC to meet expenditures required for the
Project.
Section 2.03. Maharashtra shall, under suitable financing
arrangements with BMC, ensure the availability of sufficient funds
on the same terms and conditions as those enumerated in Section
2.02 to enable BMC to complete the Project.
Section 2.04. Maharashtra shall ensure the construction of
the Bhatsai Dam, including the provision of sufficient funds,
according to a schedule that will make available water from the
Bhatsai reservoir required for the Project.
Section 2.05. Maharashtra shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land


﻿-3-
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the carry-
ing out of the Project and, if requested by the Association, shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evi-
dence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.06. Maharashtra shall under appropriate arrange-
ments cause the dams and related structures which impound water
for use by BMC, to be annually inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of
the same, which may endanger their safety.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Maharashtra hereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Maharashtra of this event.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Maharashtra:
The Chief Secretary to
the Government of Maharashtra
Sachivalaya, Bombay
India
Cable address:
RESTIS
Bombay
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra may be taken or executed
by a Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra or such other
person or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in writing, and
Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By Is! N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


