           Document of
        The World Bank

     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                  Report No: 74158 v1




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER

             ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
              OF
HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT CREDIT
          JULY 03, 2007


            TO THE

      REPUBLIC OF GHANA


        OCTOBER 23, 2012




            AFTHW
Regional Vice President:   Makhatar Diop
      Country Director:    Yusupha Crookes
       Sector Manager:     Trina S. Haque
     Task Team Leader:     Evelyn Awittor




         GHANA HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
                    P101852
                  CREDIT 43450

                    Restructuring Paper

                              2
1. This proposal is to extend the closing date for Ghana Health Insurance Project, Credit
   43450, P101852, from December 31, 2012 until June 28, 2013 as per the
   Government’s request dated September 28, 2012. Even though the request is for five
   months this proposal is for six months as the systems being put in place will require
   more extended monitoring.

2. The project is currently rated Satisfactory on both Project Development Objectives
   and Implementation Progress. Project implementation picked up significantly since
   January 2012 after being unsatisfactory for over three years. Two PDO indicators out
   of the four have been achieved or exceeded. These are; Claims submitted by
   providers to National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) or District Mutual Health
   Insurance Scheme (DMHIS or Claims Processing Center CPC) for processing passed
   the initial screening (i.e. not rejected by first electronic/ manual review); Total clean
   claims reimbursed by payers (NHIS) to providers within 60 days of claims receipt
   have reached and is maintained at a hundred percent (100%).

3. Implementation of all project activities, including the capitation pilot, clinical audit,
   development of a health data dictionary, Information, Communication and
   Technology (ICT) master plan, I –Host and medical terminology and disease coding,
   electronic claims management system, medical referral policy and gatekeeper
   principles - is progressing well. Data collection for the National Health Accounts is
   completed and analysis is currently ongoing.

4. All procurement contracts have been signed and the outstanding deliveries will be
   done by end October 2012. Consequently disbursement has also picked up since then.
   It improved from US$2.9 million in March, 2012 to US$10.73 million out of
   US$15.0 million IDA credit. An amount of US$2.7 million is also committed in four
   signed contracts. It is expected that all credit proceeds will be disbursed by closing
   and that the project will achieve its PDO. The Borrower has put in place an action
   plan to complete the project.

5. The proposed extension is necessary to enable the completion of the remaining
   project activities which include upgrading of claims processing center, health data
   dictionary and enhancement of software for the health service providers and to
   monitor the systems that are being put in place to ensure sustainability of the Ghana
   National Health Insurance System for their effective functionality.

6. All legal covenants are fully complied with and there are no pending audits.
   Implementation of the last activities of the project will require supervision beyond the
   regular monthly meeting established to improve project performance. As such there
   will now be two monthly meetings with the implementation team.

7.   If approved, this will be the first extension of the project.




                                               3
