Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6104 
Operation Name 
Lao Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Operation 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Central government administration (52%); Health (12%); District 
heating and energy efficiency services (12%); Banking (12%); 
General education sector (12%) 
Project ID 
P122847 
Borrower(s) 
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
October 10, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 2011 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Lao PDR has committed to a path of structural shift from a planned to a market-oriented economy 
and a strategy conducive to poverty reduction for the past two decades.  This commitment has been 
reinforced in a series of National Socio-Economic Development Plans (NSEDP) and in its first Poverty 
Reduction Strategy entitled National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES).  The NGPES 
established the framework for a series of structural reforms while the NSEDP for 2006-10 articulates 
further the Government’s commitment to poverty reduction.  The framework for structural reforms 
identifies key development issues and challenges in sustained growth through private sector 
development, improvement of the investment climate and facilitation of trade, strengthening the public 
sector’s financial management and building efficient public service delivery capacities in order to 
improve social outcomes. 
 
The Government is taking steps to exit the macroeconomic stimulus which helped the economy to 
sustain high economic growth during the global crisis. The Lao economy weathered the global financial 
crisis well, supported by higher than expected commodity prices and a fiscal stimulus consisting of on-
budget public outlays, off-budget quasi-fiscal spending by the Bank of Lao PDR (BOL), and significant 
expansion of credit to the private sector. Since then, the Government has started to rein in the significant 
expansion in domestic demand by: (i) phasing out central bank direct credit to local projects and putting 
back on budget the repayment of these credits; (ii) reducing the fiscal deficit through moderate wage bill 
and capital spending increase; (iii) slowing down private credit to the economy.  
 
Lao PDR has achieved significant progress in poverty reduction, while the effect of the global financial 
crisis of poverty and social outcomes has been small.  In 1992/93, basic needs were not met for 46 
percent of people, but this number fell to 39 percent in 1997/78, to 33 percent by 2002/03 and to 28 
percent by 2007/8.  Liberalization of private sector, trade and expansion of the road network (financed 
by the public sector) were major drivers of poverty reduction during the period of 1997/98-2002/03.    
 
Substantial progress is being made in the overall public financial management reform program.  Some of 
the key PFM reforms implemented by the government are: (i) establishing centralized control over all 
provincial and ministerial spending accounts, representing about 80 percent of total budgetary resources; 
(ii) revising the budget classification system to be consistent the IMF GFS statistics, and implementing it 
Page  2
for FY2008/09 budget (iii) published, with expanding coverage and improved timeliness, the annual 
budget and outturn reports; (iv) mandated minimum spending on health and education sectors by 
provincial governments starting FY2008/09; and (v) improved the legislative framework governing 
public financial management and external audit.  
 
Several important steps have also been taken in the PRSP priority sectors (health, education, and 
infrastructure), including improved monitoring and timeliness of payment of salaries to teachers and 
health workers and pilots of school grants program and equity funds pilots for hospitals. The Education 
Sector Development Framework (ESDF) has paved the way for implementing the aid effectiveness 
agenda and the Education Management Information System (EMIS) has been set up to provide timely 
and reliable information about the results in the education sector. In the health sector, prioritization for 
public interventions has been strengthened towards improved health outcomes.  In infrastructure, 
revenue of Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) now covers 60 percent of total need for the maintenance of 
national road network. The Lao financial sector has gradually moved toward commercialization, 
transparency and sustainability. The strengthening of financial sector has been concentrated on the 
restructuring of the state-owned commercial banks (SOCBs), notably the supervisory role of the central 
bank and improving legislation. The government implemented measures aimed at improving SOE 
performance and financial position. State-owned utilities have been brought towards cost recovery 
levels, especially Electricity du Laos (EDL).  Since the promulgation of the Enterprise Law in 2005, 
several important steps have been taken to simplify business entry, including elimination of minimum 
capital requirement for starting a business, introduction of simplified business registration system, 
abolishment of establishment license for general manufacturing firms and  with the intention to further 
improve the overall investment climate in the country, the National Assembly approved a new Unified 
Investment Promotion Law to replace two existing investment laws.  On the international front, Lao 
PDR is a member of ASEAN/AFTA and the World Customs Organization (WCO).  The government is 
committed to acceding to the WTO and progress towards this goal has accelerated with on-going 
activities, including the introduction of a number of reforms to the legal and policy environment for 
trade in order to improve transparency, the building of institutional capacity and the simplification and 
streamlining of the regulatory environment for trade, its commitments to reduce tariffs under regional 
agreements and other related reforms.  In the area of policy and institutional reform in natural resources 
management, the government has been working toward ensuring compliance with environmental and 
social safeguards in hydropower facilities.   
 
The World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Lao PDR (2007) builds on the 
NGPES/NSEDP, with the PRSO program being central part of this strategy to support the government in 
addressing the above development issues and challenges: (i) sustain growth through improved 
management of key drivers – regional integration and private sector development, rural development, 
and natural resource management; (ii) improve social outcomes and reduce vulnerability through 
strengthened public financial management and service delivery capacities and targeted poverty reduction 
programs; (iii) adopt a strategic approach to capacity development and partnership in support of better 
NSEDP results; and (iv) support implementation of Nam Theun 2. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed PRSO-7 -- the fourth and last operation of the second programmatic series of PRSOs in 
the Lao PDR -- supports the four pillars of the National Social and Economic Development Plan 
(NSEDP, 2006-2010):  (i) sustain growth through improved management of key drivers – regional 
integration and private sector development, rural development, and natural resource management; (ii) 
improve social outcomes and reduce vulnerability through strengthened public financial management 
and service delivery capacities and targeted poverty reduction programs; (iii) adopt a strategic approach 
Page  3
to capacity development and partnership in support of better NSEDP results; and (iv) support the 
implementation of Nam Theun 2 (NT2) hydro-power project, focusing on the revenue management 
arrangements.  PRSO-supported reforms aiming to improve the public financial management 
framework, as significant resources have started to accrue to the government from the NT2 project and 
other natural resource sector developments.  PRSO-7 continues to focus on the areas consistent with the 
goals and strategies identified by the government in the NSEDP.  PRSO-7 is jointly prepared by the 
government and IDA, in close collaboration with AusAID, the European Commission and Japan. 
 
PRSO-7 proposes to support the following prior policy actions and institutional reforms:  
 
•
sustaining growth through improvement of the investment climate, facilitating trade, and 
enhancing management of natural resources – improving the investment climate by streamlining 
investment and customs procedures, implementation of equal treatment to all firms importing or 
exporting across Lao borders per WTO requirement, enforcing clear and transparent principles for 
awarding and monitoring licenses  and environmental standards in the mining, finalization of an detailed 
action plan with clear milestones for the financial sector strategy, improving monitoring of the SOEs, 
including SOCBs, and approving actionable restructuring plans for the four largest ones.    
 
•
improving social outcomes through better public financial management systems and service 
delivery – implementing the Public Financial Management Strengthening Program (PFMSP) and 
associated capacity building measures; completing the centralization of the Treasury, Customs, and Tax 
Departments; progress towards implementation of the Treasury Single Account (TSA), transforming the 
government financial information system for timely budget reporting and monitoring, clarifying roles 
and responsibilities of central versus local governments in expenditures and service delivery assignment 
in the social sectors, strengthening capacity in the State Audit Organization (SAO), formulating and 
implementing health and education strategies, and strengthening the reporting and data analysis in the 
health and education sectors. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The PRSO-7 seeks to support policies that ensure sustained growth and improved revenue mobilization 
in the medium term, thereby increasing resources available to be used for implementing the poverty 
reduction strategy.  Progress in these policy areas enables a continuation of good macroeconomic 
performance, continued progress with poverty reduction, as well as managing the impact of the global 
financial crisis.  As programmatic budget support, the PRSO program contributes to funding 
predictability, and the associated dialogue between the government and donors to ensure policy 
prioritization and donor coordination.  At the same time the reforms supported by the PRSO will ensures 
that scarce available resources are deployed more strategically and effectively. 
 
Building on the track record of the PRSOs 1-6 and increased implementation capacity, PRSO-7 is 
expected to focus on implementation of the laws and institutional restructuring and to continue the 
assessment of expected outcomes of the series. PRSOs 1-6 have established a strong platform for 
programmatic policy reform, an appropriate legislative and institutional framework, strengthened 
government capacity, and helped build a robust foundation of these reforms.  The collaboration between 
the government and development partners continues to be significantly strengthened.  
 
Component 1:  Investment climate, competitiveness and business development.  The agenda of PRSO 6-
7
support actions that (i) create and sustain an enabling business environment and attract quality 
investment by supporting efforts to development and implement the Investment Promotion Law and the 
Mining Law; and (ii) proceed with implementation of trade facilitation reforms with a view to increasing 
Page  4
compatibility with international and best practice standards by complying with ASEAN and WTO 
standards. 
 
Component 2:  Public finance management and improving service delivery.  The thrust of the public 
financial management reforms focuses on implementation of policy reforms to strengthen the central-
local fiscal framework, improving budget planning and execution, implementation of the legislative acts 
adopted under PRSOs 1-6, and focus on improving service delivery in health and education. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
This operation is not likely to have significant negative effects on environment, natural resources, and 
forestry.  Nevertheless, certain environmental impacts might arise since the PRSO series supports a wide 
range of policy areas and interventions.  While some PRSO supported actions may have potential 
environmental implications (such as SOE restructuring), given that SOE sector is small, impacts will be 
low (the program only covers nine enterprises directly, and no massive lay-offs or construction are 
envisioned).  While trade liberalization may potentially have an impact on the environment, this 
operation covers only some first steps and regulatory reform aimed directly at easing cross-border 
movements of goods, rather than at major trade reforms.  The investment climate improvement program 
would not cover any environmentally-sensitive sectors, such as forestry or mining since these sectors are 
regulated by separate legislation.  The impacts therefore are expected to be low or minimal. 
 
PRSO-7 continues to support policy and institutional reform in natural resources management.  
Regarding infrastructure, the PRSO program provides support to EDL to implement the Action Plan for 
the Financial Sustainability of the Power Sector.  Since the major source of power comes from 
hydropower with potentially high environment and social impacts, the Government is working toward 
ensuring compliance with environmental and social safeguards.  Support from international partners is 
available through the Nam Theun 2 Hydroelectric Project, Nam Theun Social and Environment Project, 
and the Lao Environment and Social Project. In addition, The Lao Environmental and Social Project is 
supporting the development of the regulatory framework for the hydropower sector, and in relation to 
other large development projects.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Genevieve F. Boyreau 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5784+6254 
Fax:  
Email: gboyreau@worldbank.org 
Location: Vientiane, Laos (IBRD)
 
