Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
March 24, 2011 
Report No.:  AB6466 
 
Operation Name 
Lao Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Operation 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Country 
Lao People's Democratic Republic 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (29%); Banking (29%); 
Central government administration (14%); Power (14%); 
Non-compulsory health finance (14%) 
Operation ID 
P122847 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
23 Singha Road, Post Box No. 46 
Saysettha District 
Vientiane 
Lao People's Democratic Republic 
Tel: (856-21) 412-142 
E-mail:  
tchantha@mof.gov.la
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 16, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
March 23, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 26, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 
I. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) has committed to a path of structural shift from a 
planned to a market-oriented economy and a strategy conducive to poverty reduction for the past two 
decades.  This commitment has been reinforced in a series of National Socio-Economic Development 
Plans (NSEDP) and in its first Poverty Reduction Strategy entitled National Growth and Poverty 
Eradication Strategy (NGPES).  The NGPES established the framework for a series of structural reforms 
while the NSEDP for 2006-10 articulates further the government’s commitment to poverty reduction.  
The framework for structural reforms identifies key development issues and challenges in sustained 
growth through private sector development, improvement of the investment climate and facilitation of 
trade, strengthening the public sector’s financial management and building efficient public service 
delivery capacities in order to improve social outcomes. 
 
The Lao economy weathered the recent global financial crisis well, supported by higher than expected 
commodity prices and a fiscal stimulus consisting of on-budget public outlays, off-budget quasi-fiscal 
spending by the Bank of Lao PDR (BOL), and significant expansion of credit to the private sector, in 
2009-10.  The government has now taken steps to exit the macroeconomic stimulus which helped the 
economy to sustain high economic growth during the global crisis.  The government has started to rein in 
the expansion in domestic demand by: (i) phasing out central bank direct credit to local projects and 
Page  2
putting back on budget the repayment of these credits; (ii) reducing the fiscal deficit through moderate 
nominal wage bill and capital spending increase; and (iii) slowing down private credit to the economy.   
 
Sustaining the good performance of the economy remains nevertheless vulnerable to a number of factors, 
calling for enhanced government efforts to keep the pace of reforms and drive the economy away from 
expansionary policies back to a more sustainable path.  These include (i) the need for the government to 
sustain key structural reforms in a still uncertain environment; (ii) existing vulnerabilities to price shocks, 
including commodity prices (copper, gold) and energy prices; and (iii) the need to address the slowdown 
of the non-resource sector GDP growth, in particular in agriculture, manufacturing and tourism.  Over the 
last couple of years, economic growth has been increasingly driven by the resource sector, while the non-
resource sector has been relatively more impacted by the global crisis.  
 
II. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO-7) -- the fourth and last operation of the 
second programmatic series of PRSOs in the Lao PDR -- seeks to support policies that ensure sustained 
growth and improved revenue mobilization in the medium term, thereby increasing resources available to 
be used for implementing the poverty reduction strategy.   The proposed operation focuses on two broad 
policy areas which are consistent with the goals and strategies identified by the government in the NSEDP 
2006-10. 
 
·
sustaining growth through improvement of the investment climate, facilitating trade and 
management of natural resources; 
 
·
improving social outcomes through better public financial management system and service 
delivery. 
 
In addition, PRSO-7 is based on continued adequacy of the macroeconomic framework, reflective of the 
government’s commitment to macroeconomic stability.   
 
The operation has been jointly prepared by the government and IDA, in close collaboration with AusAID, 
the European Commission (EC) and Japan. 
 
PRSO-7’s prior actions and their rationale are summarized below: 
 
PRIOR ACTION 1:  "Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM) submits for government approval the 
implementing decree of the Mineral Law. 
Rationale
:
The Mineral Law lays the foundations for the mining sector long-term sustainable 
development.  To implement the law, detailed implementing regulations are required.  MEM plans to 
prepare a Prime Minister (PM) Decree for implementation of the Mineral Law and a set of 39 regulations.  
With the approval of the implementing decree and subsequent detailed regulations, MEM will achieve a 
clear delegation of roles and responsibilities. 
 
PRIOR ACTION 2:  Government approves PM decree on the Import and Export of Goods. 
Rationale
:
The Decree will introduce the principles of non-discriminatory trading rights (or “national 
treatment”) and “most favored nation” into Lao law, by ensuring that imported, transit and locally 
produced goods are treated equally.  It is an essential part of bringing the Lao legal framework for trade in 
line with the principles of the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement, and as such this reform is a 
requirement for the Lao WTO Working Party negotiations.  
 
Page  3
PRIOR ACTION 3:  Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Electricite du Laos (EDL) fully settle arrears of 
government entities to EDL up to September 2010 in FY2010/11;  MOF provides adequate budgetary 
allocation for current electricity consumption for FY 2010/11;  MOF and EDL agree on a sustainable 
mechanism for electricity bill payment to ensure no new arrears are accumulated.   
Rationale
:
To ensure that no new arrears are accumulated, a sustainable mechanism for electricity 
consumption and payment by government agencies was discussed.  It may involve three elements: (i) 
improving the way recurrent cost for electricity is budgeted by agencies and consolidated by MOF, to 
reflect expected actual consumption; (ii) implementing efficiency measures (no-cost) endorsed by 
government and which MEM and EDL are working on; and (iii) an effective monitoring mechanism of 
electricity consumption by agencies over time.  By MOF’s Decision 1760 of July 30, 2010, a Committee 
led by the Vice Minister for Finance and comprises of the Director-General Budget, Director-General 
Treasury and EDL Director have been established to oversee this issue.  Under this Committee, there are 
two sub-committees on: (i) reconciliation of data: and (ii) preventive measures for arrears occurrence.  
 
PRIOR ACTION 4:  BOL reviews and updates prudential rules for banking sector supervision  
Rationale
:
This action is intended to review and update the existing prudential ratios applying to 
commercial banks in accordance with Basel principles.  It is proposed in particular to review the net open 
position (NOP) and loan classification regulations. 
 
PRIOR ACTION 5:  BOL submits the Microfinance Decree for government’s approval.   
Rationale:
 
Under the leadership of the BOL, the decree is intended to update and elevate the 3 currently 
existing regulations relevant for microfinance into a decree.  
 
PRIOR ACTION 6:  State Audit Organization (SAO) publishes a summary of its key findings from its 
audit of the budget execution report for the FY 2008/09 after approval by the National Assembly.   
Rationale
:
SAO’s intention is to prepare and publish a summary report on the findings from its audit of 
the budget execution report for FY 2008/09 after it receives approval from the National Assembly.  This 
will promote transparency in the government’s public financial reporting and assist in developing a better 
understanding of the SAO’s role, particularly its independent oversight of the government’s financial 
management and reporting.   
 
PRIOR ACTION 7:  Ministry of Health (MOH) publishes first National Health Statistics Report. 
Rationale
:
Although weaknesses remain in the current Health Management Information System (HMIS), 
significant progress has been made in recent years to strengthen reporting, consolidation, and analysis of 
data.  Reporting formats are now consistent nationally, and the timeliness of submission of data by 
districts and provinces has improved steadily.  MOH proposes to publish its first National Health 
Statistics Report, and by doing so improving the performance monitoring and oversight of the sector.  
 
III. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSO program is an integral component of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), supporting its 
pillars of reforms, achieving the outcomes, and contributing to its risk management strategy.  This 
program plays a focal role in supporting the policy reform dimensions of other Bank operations, both 
ongoing and as envisaged in the CAS, and is in turn supported by other Bank operations.  The PRSO 
framework provides a platform for policy reforms that complements interventions within other sectoral 
investment operations.  
PRSO-7 seeks to support policies that ensure sustained growth and improved revenue mobilization in the medium term, 
thereby increasing resources available to be used for implementing the poverty reduction strategy.  PRSO-7 focuses on two broad policy areas consistent with 
the goals and strategies identified by the government in its Poverty Reduction Strategy, and reflected in the World Bank’s CAS in the following way: (1) 
sustainable growth; and (2) public resource and expenditure management.  Increased growth and improved management of public resources will ensure that 
additional resources are available for implementing the poverty reduction strategy, and that these resources are deployed more effectively and efficiently 
Page  4
towards improving social outcomes.  As programmatic budget support, the PRSO program contributes to funding predictability, and the associated dialogue 
between the government and donors to ensure policy prioritization and donor coordination. 
 
Since April 2005, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has conducted an annual Article IV 
consultation as well as prepared half-yearly macroeconomic assessment letters.  The Bank and the Fund 
staff collaborate closely during these annual consultations in the context of the PRSO program.  The 
IMF’s last Article IV consultation was completed in June 2010.  The next consultations activity is 
scheduled for June 2011.  Findings of the latest mission have been reflected in the Program Document.  
The IMF will provide an assessment letter for PRSO-7 by end April 2011. 
 
PRSOs in Lao PDR are characterized by a framework of evolving partnership between the government 
and development partners, and have become an important new aid modality and a vehicle for donor 
harmonization and policy coordination.  During the preparation of PRSO-1 through PRSO-6, and the 
current PRSO-7, discussions were held with major development partners including the IMF, EC, Japan, 
and the ADB.  For PRSOs 4-7, the matrix was appraised jointly by the three development partners co-
financing the program:  Japan, EC, and Australia.  The World Bank and donor team inform the donor 
community on the progress with PRSOs and encourage other development partners’ participation.   
 
Other development partners provide grants for technical assistance in support of policy reforms and 
capacity building.  Grant-based technical assistance plays an important role.  Several development 
partners have already provided this assistance.  JBIC financed consulting services to the Business 
Promotion Office (BPO) in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) to support the development of SOE 
restructuring plans under the PRSO-2 and PRSO-4 and-5.  The Government of Japan provided a PHRD 
grant under PRSO-3 and PRSO-5.  The EC, ADB and Swedish International Development Agency 
(SIDA) financed technical assistance to support the PRSO-linked Public Expenditure Review (PER) and 
are supporting the Public Expenditure Management Strengthening Program (PEMSP).  The PRSO 
process has involved close collaboration with many other donor-supported initiatives — notably, the 
ADB’s work on banking reform, GTZ and the United Nations Development Program’s work on 
governance and public administration reform. 
 
IV. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
10 
Borrower/Recipient  
IBRD 
Others (specify) 
 
Total  
 
V. Tranches
 (if applicable)
 
($m.) 
First Tranche 
 
Second Tranche 
 
Etc.  
 
Total  
 
Page  5
VI. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The implementation of the PRSO program is led by the PRSO Steering Committee.  This Committee was 
established by Order of the Prime Minister, is chaired by the Minister of Finance and supported by a 
PRSO Secretariat chaired by the Vice Minister of Finance; both bodies include senior level representation 
from relevant ministries.  In particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry for Planning and 
Investment and its National Statistics Center, Ministries of Education, Health, Energy and Mining, 
Industry and Commerce, Agriculture and Forestry, Ministry of Transport, Communications, Post and 
Construction, BOL, PMO and its BPO, Public Administration and Civil Service Agency (PACSA), and 
other agencies are represented.  The PRSO Secretariat covers the program implementation and 
coordinates with all relevant ministries and agencies.  Stakeholder consultations on reforms take place 
regularly, are government-led, and mainstreamed into PRSO policy actions.  Development partners 
support consultation initiatives where appropriate through financial means and technical assistance. .   
 
Progress with the PRSO program implementation is monitored by the PRSO Secretariat with reference to 
the PRSO Program Matrix, updated annually as part of PRSO negotiations.  The PRSO secretariat meets 
regularly to take stock of progress and discuss next steps for policy reform implementation.  The World 
Bank and development partners monitor progress via continuous dialogue throughout the year, including 
periodic missions.  Accordingly, this Program Document for the second series of four PRSOs includes a 
policy reform matrix designed and updated jointly by the government, the World Bank and co-financing 
development partners to reflect evolving policies and the pace of implementation of the NSEDP and the 
current status of progress.    
 
In addition to monitoring of progress against policy actions, the PRSO results indicators will be updated 
to track the impact of this PRSO series. This is the usual Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework 
which covers all four operations in the series.  The end-of-series outcomes expected under each sub-
component of the PRSO program are recorded in the PRSO matrix in the Program Document.  In 
addition, macroeconomic developments and poverty and social indicators are closely monitored. 
 
The government will maintain a dedicated Deposit Account in US dollars at the BOL, as part of the 
general foreign currency reserves of the government, and the Grant proceeds will be deposited by IDA 
into that Deposit Account.  An equivalent amount will be converted into local currency and credited to a 
Central Treasury account that is used to finance budget expenditures.  The government will, if considered 
necessary by IDA, allow an independent external audit of the dedicated foreign currency deposit account.  
The Grant proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the development policy 
program and the stipulated release conditions of PRSO-7.  The grant proceeds will not be tied to any 
specific purchases.  However, the government will ensure that the grant proceeds are used for budgeted 
public expenditures except for purposes or items on IDA’s “negative list” as agreed during negotiations 
and specified in the Financing Agreement.  If the proceeds of the Grant or any part of the Grant proceeds 
are used for ineligible purposes, as defined in the Financing Agreement, the Bank will require the 
government, upon notification from IDA, to refund the amount directly to IDA.  Amounts refunded to 
IDA upon such requests shall be cancelled.  Upon request by IDA, the dedicated account and related fund 
flows to and from this account will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and the audit report will be provided to IDA within 
four months after IDA’s request for such an audit.  
 
VII. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
Page  6
The PRSO series remain a relatively high risk program warranted by a substantial potential payoff 
—
The 
Lao PDR remaining on its current growth and poverty reduction trajectory and making progress towards 
the MDGs.  Over time the nature of risks has changed.  Risks initially identified as binding such as 
commitment to reform and inter-agency coordination have declined, while capacity risks have increased 
and become a possible binding constraint.  More recently, the global crisis has challenged macroeconomic 
policy coordination and brought macroeconomic management risks at the forefront. Significant risk 
mitigation remains necessary.  Three main risks have been identified which could affect the impact of the 
proposed operation and PRSO program.  These are set out below together with mitigating factors: 
 
(a) 
Potential deterioration of the macroeconomic outlook may come from: (i) delays in the start of 
operation of hydropower projects, and/or construction of new power plants, and/or weaker regional 
demand for Laos key exports and leading to a decline in exports earnings and FDI, in a still weak 
recovery of the global economy, even though Laos benefits from a dynamic regional neighborhood; (ii) 
the risk of downward pressure on the exchange rate triggered by a fall in net foreign assets and 
international reserves  is reduced with the recent recovery of net foreign assets and reserves and 
slowdown in credit growth, requires monitoring in the context of 50 percent dollarized economy where 
monetary holding remain very sensitive to exchange rate movements; and (iii) a sharp rise in non-
performing loans following recent rapid -- albeit slowing down -- growth in credit triggering default in the 
banking sector, leading to a loss in the public confidence in the banking sector ability to protect savings 
and in the credibility of the exchange rate, against the backdrop of limited bank supervision, leading to a 
rapid deterioration of banking sector performance and heightened downward pressures on the exchange 
rate.  To address these risks, the recent prudent government policy stance of low fiscal deficit, combined 
with phasing out of quasi-fiscal activities and slower credit growth is much welcome.  The PRSO 
operation and the Lao PDR country program mitigate this risk by the following avenues: (i) through 
strengthened macroeconomic monitoring providing inputs to the design of an appropriate macroeconomic 
mix response; (ii) by providing direct general budget support which eases the constraint of financing 
reforms in the context of multiple and competing needs, and facilitate the government exit out of the 
fiscal stimulus provided during the global crisis; (iii) by assisting Government to put in place appropriate 
policies and institutional mechanism for improved expenditure and SOEs management; (iv) policy actions 
that limit the accumulation of arrears to electricity company; and (v) a financial sector component that 
includes SOCBs monitoring and strengthens bank supervision.  Most importantly, the government is 
committed to a sustainable macroeconomic path, as evidenced by the phasing out of quasi-fiscal activities 
and the recent slowdown of private credit expansion in the economy.  
 
(b) 
The weak public financial management system does not allow for timely reconciliation and 
reporting of public finances indicates a high fiduciary risk of possible leakages of funds.  This risk is 
heightened by provincial autonomy without adequate monitoring and accountability mechanisms.  This 
risk is mitigated by the fact that the government is now in the process of recentralizing budget execution 
at the National Treasury and established the Treasury Single Account, and revenue administration 
functions (Customs and Tax Departments), and the PRSO is supporting this program frontally.  
Continuing fiscal risks could result in the diversion of PRSO funds away from PRS priorities, and to 
cover losses of SOCBs and SOEs.  This risk is partially mitigated by a program of monitoring of SOE and 
SOCB performance embedded in PRSO program matrix and closer implementation support by Bank staff 
on PFM issues.   
 
To date the PRSOs have contributed to the following:  (i) The National Treasury centralization process 
has already resulted in the MOF taking control of provincial government bank accounts;  (ii) Deployment 
of e-Revenue facilities at the Vientiane Capital Tax office;  (iii) EDL has stopped making losses; and  
(iv) Budget monitoring system being strengthened.  Therefore, over the course of the PRSOs, these 
risks have been reduced.   
Page  7
(c) 
Severe capacity constraints in the civil service are due to the lack of adequate qualified personnel, 
and low pay and incentives.  This risk is partially mitigated by working with the government to outsource 
non-core functions like ICT connectivity for GFIS, supporting the government in formulating an 
appropriate pay and compensation policy, and provision of additional resources for PRSOs 
implementation through a World Bank project (Financial Management Capacity Building Project), 
Mining and Energy Sectoral Technical Assistance, and Technical Assistance (TA) provided by other 
development partners.  Consistent with the lessons learned from the previous series, the team ensures that 
TA be available for each sub-component and action in the action matrix, and development partners work 
together to identify capacity building needs:  additional resources made available to PRSO include 
bilateral aid from Japan, Australia, and EC, and aligned TA provided through multi-donor trust funds 
administered by the World Bank on behalf of other development partners.   
 
VIII. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts  
 
The links between the decrease in poverty and government programs and expenditure are complex, and 
the subject of ongoing analytical work.  However, it is clear that the substantial improvements in access to 
social services and infrastructure over the most recent period have played an important role in reducing 
consumption poverty and increasing welfare.  The improvements in access to roads, clean water and 
sanitation are particularly impressive.  Education opportunities have expanded and more than eight in ten 
children between the ages of six and ten are enrolled in primary school.  In addition, a swift expansion in 
ownership of assets has occurred, including motorbikes and mobile phones, even in the most remote 
areas.  This is increasingly linking previously remote communities to infrastructure and information.  At 
the same time, lack of access to infrastructure, services and markets is strongly correlated to poverty 
progress.  Enrollment rates among ethnic minorities and those living in remote rural areas remain far 
below the national average.  Furthermore, improvements in access to healthcare over the past 5 years have 
been slow.  Many households still need to travel long distances on poor roads in order to access 
healthcare.  Although the causal relationships are complex, it appears that lack of access to infrastructure 
and markets are closely associated with barriers to growth and poverty reduction and require further 
investment.  
 
The PRSO series supports and is fully consistent with the government poverty reduction strategy, 
embedded in the NSEDP, which provides a comprehensive strategy for development, with a range of 
medium-term policies aimed at sustained growth and poverty reduction.  The NSEDP addresses poverty 
in Lao PDR through several thematic and cross-cutting issues, aiming to further its reduction through 
sectoral and regional development.  The poverty reduction strategy seeks to expand economic activity, 
improve access to basic services, increase health security, and empower decision-making of the poor.  It 
recognizes the role of good governance and legal reforms will play in this strategy, as well as how private 
sector development and natural resource management interplay to better ensure opportunities and funding 
in fighting poverty.  Policy actions supported under PRSO-7 are expected to have positive social impacts, 
and no significantly negative impacts are envisaged.  On the business development and investment 
climate component, the proposed operation supports greater clarity and consistency in the legislative 
framework relating to investment and doing business climate, and together with supporting the 
development of the trade facilitation action plan, aims to improve coordination across different agencies 
so that citizens can engage more easily in trade and commerce.  These reforms are expected to have a 
positive impact on employment and incomes generally.  
 
With regards to SOEs, the operation supports measures aimed at improving the financial management of 
SOEs so that the quality of their services improves and leakage of resources is curtailed.  While SOE 
Page  8
restructuring may potentially have an adverse social impact, given that the SOE sector is small, impact 
will be very low (the program only covers nine enterprises directly, and no massive lay-offs).    
 
By supporting policies to reduce government arrears to EDL, it is envisaged that EDL will be able to 
invest more resources in improving services and maintain its countrywide electricity system better.  In 
addition, clarity in the financial arrangements for electricity provision in the agriculture sector would 
enhance transparency in roles and responsibilities of MOF and EDL, improvement in coordination 
between these two entities to serve users better.  This would mean that all users would benefit from better 
service provision.  
 
Public financial management reforms aim to improve fiduciary controls and enhance quality of service 
delivery.  By supporting the development of rules based and transparent budget norms, the operation aims 
to assist the government in addressing the horizontal inequities between rich and poor provinces on 
spending on health and education.  The operation also
 supports the government’s efforts at centralizing 
the Treasury Department of the MOF.  This reform will significantly: (i) reduce fiduciary risks associated 
with fragmentation of government bank accounts across the country; and (ii) ensure that funds are 
transferred to service delivery units in a timelier manner.  The operation is also supporting the publication 
of budget execution reports as well as budget plans. 
 
Environment Aspects  
 
This operation is not likely to have any negative effects on environment, natural resources, and forestry.  
Nevertheless, certain environmental impacts might arise since the PRSO series supports a wide range of 
policy areas and interventions.  While PRSO supports SOE restructuring and may have potential 
environmental implications, given that the SOE sector is small, impact will be low (the program only 
covers nine enterprises directly, and no construction/destruction are envisioned).  While trade 
liberalization may potentially have an impact on the environment, this operation covers only first steps 
and regulatory reform aimed directly at easing cross-border movements of goods, rather than at major 
trade reforms.  In fact, the investment climate improvement program would not touch upon 
environmentally-sensitive sectors, such as forestry or mining since these sectors are regulated by separate 
legislation.  The impacts therefore are expected to be low or minimal.   
 
PRSO-7 continues to support policy and institutional reform in natural resources management.  Regarding 
infrastructure, the PRSO program supports EDL to implement the Action Plan for the Financial 
Sustainability of the Power Sector.  Since the major source of power comes from hydropower with 
potentially high environment and social impacts, the government is working toward ensuring compliance 
with environmental and social safeguards.  Support from international partners is available through the 
Nam Theun 2 Hydroelectric Project, Nam Theun Social and Environment Project, and the Lao 
Environment and Social Project.  In the context of NT2, the government has enacted the National Policy 
on Environmental and Social Sustainability of the Hydropower Sector to ensure that future development 
of the hydropower projects complies with environment and social safeguards.  In the mining sector, the 
PRSO supports the completion of the new mining legislation, including the development of 
complementary regulations which comprise standards and detailed regulations for environmental 
protection.   
 
The PRSO program is supported by the Lao Environmental and Social (LEnS) project; NT2 
environmental, economic and social work; the Poverty and Environment Nexus study series and the Lao 
Environment Monitor.  The LEnS is supporting the development of the regulatory framework for the 
hydropower sector, and in relation to other large development projects.  Sub-grants to support 
implementation of the National Policy on the Environmental and Social Sustainability of the Hydropower 
Sector and the Resettlement Policy have been implemented and their Phase I Reports are ready.  The 
Page  9
recently approved Technical Assistance Project for Capacity Development in Hydropower and Mining 
Sector will enhance the awareness and technical knowledge of MEM agencies, especially the Department 
of Electricity (DOE), the Department of Mines (DOM), and the provincial departments of MEM (PDEM), 
to address environment and social safeguard issues.  Environmental and social capacity building and 
awareness is an integral part of the design of each of the project components.   
 
IX. Contact 
point 
World Bank 
 
Contact:  
Genevieve F. Boyreau 
Title:  
 
Senior Economist 
Tel:  
 
5784+254 / 856-21-450-010 
Fax:  
 
856-21-414-210 
Email:   
gboyreau@worldbank.org 
Location:  
Vientiane, Laos (IBRD)
 
Borrower 
Contact:  
Mme. Thipphakone Chanthavongsa 
Title: 
 
Director-General, External Finance Department 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Tel:  
856-21 
412-142 
Email:  
tchantha@mof.gov.la 
 
X. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
