                                                Document of
                                               The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                                           Report No. 60074-LA



                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                          PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                                         FOR A PROPOSED GRANT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.4 MILLION
                                    (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                       TO

                             THE LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                  FOR A SEVENTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION


                                                 April 28, 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Southeast Asia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                      GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                       October 1 – September 30

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective as of April 2011)
                         Currency Unit: Kip
                          US$1.00 = 8038

                       WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                           Metric System




                    Vice President:    James W. Adams
                  Country Director:    Annette Dixon
Chief Economist and Sector Director:   Vikram Nehru
                  Country Manager:     Keiko Miwa
                   Lead Economist:     Mathew A. Verghis
                 Task Team Leader:     Genevieve Boyreau
                                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA     Analytical and Advisory Activities              MPDF     Mekong Private Sector Development Facility
ADB     Asian Development Bank                          MTEF     Medium-term Expenditure Framework
AFTA    ASEAN Free Trade Area                           NBFIs    Non-Bank Financial Institutions
APB     Agriculture Promotion Bank                      NCBD     National Committee for Business
                                                                 Development
BCEL    Bank pour le Commerce Extérieur Lao             NEM      New Economic Mechanism
BOL     Bank of Lao PDR                                 NGO      Non-governmental Organization
BPO     Business Promotion Office                       NGPES    National Growth and Poverty Eradication
                                                                 Strategy
BRIC    Bank Restructuring Implementation Committee     NPEP     National Poverty Eradication Program
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                     NPL      Non-Performing Loan
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment     NPV      Net Present Value
CPI     Committee of Planning and Investment            NSD      National Statistical Department
CPIA    Country Policy and Institutional Assessment     NSEDP    National Socio-Economic Development Plan
COA     Chart of Accounts                               NT2      Nam Theun 2
DAFI    Agriculture and Forestry Industry Development   PACSA    Public Administration and Civil Service
        Group                                                    Agency
DAI     Agriculture Industry Development Import-        PFMSP    Public Finance Management Strengthening
        Export State-Owned Enterprise                            Program
EDL     Electricité du Laos                             PER      Public Expenditure Review
EFA     Education for All                               PETS     Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
EMIS    Education Management Information System         PFA      Production Forest Area
EC      European Commission                             PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment                       PMO      Prime Minister’s Office
FMAC    Financial Management Adjustment Credit          PrMO     Procurement Management Office
FMCB    Financial Management Capacity Building          PRSO     Poverty Reduction Support Operation
P       Project
GA      Governance Agreements                           PPP      Purchasing Power Parity
GFIS    Government Financial Management Information     REF      Rural Electrification Fund
        System
IAS     International Accounting Standards              RMF      Road Maintenance Fund
IBA     International Banking Advisor                   ROC      Regional Operations Committee
JBIC    Japan Bank for International Cooperation        RTM      Round Table Meeting
LDB     Lao Development Bank                            SAC      Structural Adjustment Fund
LDP     Letter of Development Policy                    SOEMD    State Owned Enterprise Management
                                                                 Department
LECS    Lao Expenditure Consumption Survey              SIDA     Swedish International Development Agency
LIC     Low-Income Country                              SME      Small and Medium Enterprises
LICUS   Low-Income Country Under Stress                 SOE      State-Owned Enterprise
LSFC    Lao State Fuel Company                          SOCB     State Owned Commercial Bank
                                                        STA      Science and Technology Agency
MAF     Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry            SUFORD   Sustainable Forestry Capacity Building
MPW     Ministry of Public Works and Transport          TA       Technical Assistance
T
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals                    TFSCB    Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation                       TIN      Tax Identification Number
MEM     Ministry of Energy and Mining                   UN       United Nations
MFI     Micro-Finance Institutions                      UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
MOE     Ministry of Education                           UNESCA   United Nations Economic and Social
                                                        P        Commission for Asia and the Pacific
MOF     Ministry of Finance                             UNESCO   United National Educational, Scientific, and
                                                                 Cultural Organization
MOFA    Ministry of Foreign Affairs                     USBTA    United States Bilateral Trade Agreement
MOH     Ministry of Health                              VAT      Value-Added Tax
MOIC    Ministry of Industry and Commerce               WTO      World Trade Organization
MPI     Ministry of Planning and Investment             WREA     Water Resource and Environment Agency
The Lao PDR’s Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRS07) has being prepared by a World
Bank team led by Genevieve Boyreau (Task Team Leader, Senior Country Economist) and consisted of
Ahsan Ali (Senior Procurement Specialist), Ratchada Anantavrasilpa (Financial Sector Specialist),
Somneuk Davading (Senior Economist), Christopher Fabling (Senior Financial Management Specialist),
Roch Levesque (Senior Counsel), Magnus Lindelow (Senior Health Economist), Shabih Mohib (Senior
Economist), Konesawang Nghardsaysone (Operations Analyst), Suhas Parandekar (Senior Education
Economist), Keomanivone Phimmahasay (Research Analyst), Sengxay Phousinghoa (Senior Private Sector
Specialist), Richard Record (Trade Specialist), Frederico Gil Sander (Economist), William Rex (Lead
Social Development Specialist), Sombath Southivong (Senior Infrastructure Specialist), Jie Tang (Senior
Energy Specialist), Thang-Long Ton (Economist), Minh Van Nguyen (Senior Public Finance Specialist),
Saysanith Vongviengkham (Public Sector Specialist). Vatthana Singharaj and Lynn Gross provided
administrative assistance.
Peer reviewers: Ejaz Ghani (Economic Adviser, SASEP), Keiko Kubota (Senior Economist, EASPR), and
Jos Verbeek, Lead Economist (AFTP2)
                 LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
       PROPOSED SEVENTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION

                             TABLE OF CONTENTS

GRANT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

I.     INTRODUCTION                                                    1
II.    COUNTRY CONTEXT                                                 3
          BACKGROUND                                                    4
          RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                                  4
          MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK                                        10
          DEBT SUSTAINABILITY                                         13
          PROGRESS WITH POVERTY REDUCTION                             15
          TOWARDS ACHIEVING MDGs                                      15

III.   THE GOVERNMENT’S PROGRAM                                       17
          REVIEW OF KEY POLICY REFORMS UNDER THE FIRST SIXTH PRSOs    18

IV.    BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT’S PROGRAM                       25
          LINK TO CAS                                                 25
          RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS                       25
          LESSONS LEARNED                                             27
          ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS                                    29
          COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS   31

V.     THE PROPOSED OPERATION                                         33
          OPERATION DESCRIPTION                                       33
          COMPONENT 1: INVESTMENT CLIMATE, COMPETITIVENESS AND        34
          BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
          COMPONENT 2: PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT AND IMPROVING        37
          SERVICE DELIVERY

VI.    OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION                                       44
          POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT                                   44
          ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS                                       45
          IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION                   46
          FIDUCIARY ASPECTS                                           47
          DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING                                   48
          RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION                                   49
                                               FIGURES

Figure 1: GDP Growth, Inflation, and Impact of Resource Sector Projects, 2006-2010     5
Figure 2: Inflation has been Declining, Driven by Lower Food Prices                    5
Figure 3: Exports by Sector (US$ million)                                              7
Figure 4: Balance of Payments (percent of GDP)                                         7
Figure 5: Disbursement of FDI in Lao PDR (US$ million)                                 7
Figure 6: Nominal and Real Effective Exchange Rates                                    8
Figure 7: Net Foreign Assets and Reserves                                              8
Figure 8: Medium-Term Real GDP Growth and Inflation (percent)                         10
Figure 9: Real GDP Growth: Contribution by Sector (percentage points)                 10
Figure 10: Current Account Balance and Overall Balance of Payments, 2007-2009         11
            and Projections for 2010-2015 (percent of GDP)
Figure 11: GOL’s Revenue Performance, FY08-FY13 (percent of GDP)                      12
Figure 12: Summary of the Medium-Term Fiscal Framework (percent of GDP)               12

                                               TABLES

Table 1:   Lao PDR Summary of Macroeconomic Framework, 2006–2013                       9
Table 2:   Lao PDR External Debt Indicators                                           14
Table 3:   Selected Social Indicators for Lao PDR                                     17
Table 4:   Public Expenditure in Priority Sectors and NT2 Allocations                 24
Table 5:   Monitoring Indicators for Public Finance Management Component of PRSO4-7   40
Table 6:   Summary of Achieved PRSO7 Prior Actions                                    42

                                               BOXES

Box 1: Lao PDR Financial Sector Strategy                                              22
Box 2: Good Practice Principles on Conditionality Applied in Lao PDR                  30

                                               ANNEXES

Annex 1:   Letter of Development Policy                                               51
Annex 2:   PRSO4-7 Program Action Matrix                                              57
Annex 3:   Core PRSO Result Indicators                                                69
Annex 4:   Indicators for General Monitoring                                          75
Annex 5:   Lao PDR at a Glance                                                        79

MAP IBRD 33431
                          GRANT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
                      LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
       PROPOSED SEVENTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION

Borrower         Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
Implementing     Ministry of Finance
Agency
Financing Data   IDA Grant H686-LA
                 Terms: Standard IDA grant terms
                 Amount: SDR 6.4 million (US$10 million equivalent).
Operation Type   The proposed Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO7) is the fourth and
                 last operation of the second programmatic series of four operations (PRSO4-7). PRSO7 is
                 a single tranche operation.
Main Policy      PRSO7 focuses on two broad policy areas which are consistent with the goals and
Areas            strategies identified by the Government in the National Socio-Economic Development Plan
                 2006-10 (NSEDP). The NSEDP successfully incorporated the key principles of an
                 effective Poverty Reduction Strategy. The priorities of the NSEDP are reflected in IDA’s
                 Country Assistance Strategy and focus on:
                       sustaining growth through improvement of the investment climate, facilitating trade
                        and management of natural resources; and
                    improving social outcomes through better public financial management systems and
                        service delivery.
                 In addition, PRSO7 is based on continued adequacy of the macroeconomic framework,
                 reflective of the Government’s commitment to macroeconomic stability. The operation
                 has been jointly prepared by the Government and IDA, in close collaboration with
                 AusAID, the European Commission (EC) and Japan.
Key Outcome      Within the NSEDP framework, the PRSO7 aims to support Lao PDR in two key focus
Indicators       areas:
                    Improving the investment climate, competitiveness, and business development in
                        order to establish an environment conducive to sustainable export- and private sector-
                        driven growth; and
                    Strengthening the overall public finance management framework to enable the
                        Government to increase efficiency of the public resource allocation system,
                        strengthen fiduciary controls, and improve service delivery.
                 Reforms in these areas have improved the Government’s ability to manage the impact of
                 the economic crisis, particularly on the financial sector, and to cushion to some extent the
                 shortfalls in budgetary revenues resulting from it. The PRSO series expects to contribute
                 to a list of outcomes and indicators as follows: (i) streamlining of regulations for setting
                 up and operating business as measured by the number of days it takes to start up a
                 business; (ii) streamlining of cross-border procedures to reduce trade barriers;
                 (iii) reduction in state owned enterprises (SOEs) losses, greater transparency and
                 commercial viability; more modern and better performing banking sector; (iv) improved
                 credibility of budget planning, transparency and comprehensiveness of budget reporting;
                 and faster budget execution; (v) timeliness and quality of external audits; (vi) improving
                 service delivery and management, allocation, and monitoring of education expenditures;
                 and (vii) improved access to health care and financial protection; effective performance
                 monitoring for health sector policy.
Program           PRSO7 aims to support the Government’s priorities as outlined in its NSEDP and
Development       supported by the CAS, namely by: (i) sustaining growth through improved investment
Objectives and    climate and competiveness; and (ii) improving social outcomes by improving the quality
Contribution to   of the public finance management framework and service delivery mechanism in the
CAS.              health and education sectors. PRSO7 will contribute to the achievement of these
                  objectives through improving management of key areas (regional integration, private
                  sector development, and quality of investment in natural resource sector) and through
                  strengthening of public financial management and service delivery capacities and targeted
                  poverty reduction programs.

                  The PRSO policy reform program is supported by complementary technical assistance
                  from the World Bank and other development partners, in order to ensure that the
                  Government receives comprehensive policy and implementing support to execute its
                  reform program effectively. The EC, Japan and Australia will also provide parallel
                  financing to the Government within the PRSO7 framework.
Risks and Risk    There are three main risks that could affect the proposed operation:
Mitigation
                  Risk associated with a deterioration of the macroeconomic outlook which may come from:
                  (i) delays in the start of operation of hydropower projects and/or construction of new
                  power plants, and/or weaker regional demand for Laos key exports; (ii) the risk of
                  downward pressure on the exchange rate triggered by a fall in net foreign assets and
                  international reserves is reduced with the recent recovery of net foreign assets and
                  reserves and slowdown in credit growth; and (iii) a sharp rise in non-performing loans
                  following recent rapid, albeit slowing down, growth in credit triggering default in the
                  banking sector, leading to a loss in the public confidence in the banking sector ability to
                  protect savings and in the credibility of the exchange rate, against the backdrop of limited
                  bank supervision, leading to a rapid deterioration of banking sector performance and
                  heightened downward pressures on the exchange rate. To address these risks, the proposed
                  recent prudent approach of low fiscal deficit, combined with phasing out of quasi-fiscal
                  activities and slower credit growth is much welcome. The PRSO operation and Lao PDR
                  country program mitigate this risk partially by the following avenues: (i) strengthened
                  macroeconomic monitoring and dialogue with Bank of Lao PDR (BOL); (ii) by providing
                  budget support to ease the constraints of financing a multi-front reform program and
                  competing needs; and (iii) a financial sector component that includes state-owned
                  commercial banks (SOCB) monitoring and strengthens bank supervision.

                  High fiduciary risk due to a weak public financial management system. The weak
                  financial management and monitoring system does not allow for timely reconciliation and
                  reporting of public finance which raised the risk of possible leakages and diversion of
                  public funds away from National Socio-Economic Development Plan (NSEDP) priorities.
                  The risk is heightened by provincial autonomy without adequate monitoring and
                  accountability mechanisms. This risk is mitigated by a strong Public Finance
                  Management (PFM) program and complemented by a monitoring regime of SOE and
                  SOCB performance embedded in the PRSO program matrix.

                  Capacity constraints and skills shortage in the civil service contribute to the risk of
                  slowing progress in reform implementation. The risk is mitigated by additional resources
                  made available via the various Technical assistance instruments in place. The United
                  Nations Development Program (UNDP) is providing assistance to the Government on
                  strengthening civil service performance management system.
Operation ID      P122847
                        IDA PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR
         A PROPOSED SEVENTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION
                 TO THE LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC


I.         INTRODUCTION

1.      The economy of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao DPR) is on its way to achieve
another year of sustained economic growth, against the backdrop of a dynamic regional demand.
Economic growth is projected to be increasingly driven by resource exports (especially hydropower and
mining). The start of Nam Theun 2 (NT2) commercial operations in April 2010 was an important
contributor to economic growth last year. The recent recovery of commodity prices (especially metals and
agriculture) and dynamic regional demand is boosting Lao export earnings in 2011 and encouraging
foreign direct investment (FDI).

2.      The Government has taken steps to exit the macroeconomic stimulus which helped the
economy sustain high economic growth during the global crisis. The Lao economy weathered the
global financial crisis well, supported by higher than expected commodity prices and a fiscal stimulus
consisting of on-budget public outlays, off-budget quasi-fiscal spending by the Bank of Lao PDR (BOL),
and significant expansion of credit to the private sector. Since then, the authorities have started to rein in
the significant expansion in domestic demand by: (i) phasing out BOL direct credit to local projects and
putting back on budget the repayment of these credits; (ii) reducing the fiscal deficit through moderate
nominal wage bill and capital spending increase; and (iii) slowing down private credit to the economy.

3.      Sustaining the good performance of the economy remains nevertheless vulnerable to a
number of factors, calling for enhanced Government efforts to keep the pace of reforms and refrain
from expansionary policies, and return to a more sustainable path. These factors include: (i) the
challenges in advancing reforms in an uncertain environment; (ii) price shocks, including from
commodity prices (copper, gold, energy); and (iii) the slowdown of growth in the non-resource sectors, in
particular in agriculture, manufacturing and tourism. Over the last couple of years, economic growth has
been increasingly driven by the resource sector, while the non-resource sector has been relatively more
impacted by the global crisis.

4.      The proposed PRSO7 reflects a mature program of policy and institutional reforms
initiated in 2005, with strong government ownership under the leadership of the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the PRSO Steering Committee. It is the fourth operation of the second
programmatic series of PRSOs in the Lao PDR. The PRSO7 continues to focus on the areas consistent
with the goals and strategies identified by the Government in its National Social and Economic
Development Plan (NSEDP, 2006-2010).1 The PRSO program supports the four pillars of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which in turn build on the Government’s NSEDP. The four pillars of the
CAS are: (i) sustain growth through improved management of key drivers – regional integration and
private sector development, rural development, and natural resource management; (ii) improve social
outcomes and reduce vulnerability through strengthened public financial management and service
delivery capacities and targeted poverty reduction programs; (iii) adopt a strategic approach to capacity
development and partnership in support of better NSEDP results; and (iv) support the implementation of
NT2 hydro-power project, focusing on the revenue management arrangements. PRSO-supported reforms
are timely for improving the public financial management framework, as significant resources will accrue
to the Government from the NT2 project and other natural resource sector developments. The PRSO7 is

1
    A Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN) was discussed by the IMF and World Bank Boards in June 2008.
being jointly prepared by the Government and IDA, in close collaboration with AusAID, the EC and
Japan.

5.       Poverty incidence in Laos fell sharply from 46 percent in 1993 to 28 percent in 2008. The
Lao PDR Poverty Assessment (2006) showed that the greatest reductions in poverty headcount happened
in the areas that were selected by the Poverty Reduction Strategy as priority districts for poverty reduction
efforts, including targeted interventions.2 Preliminary results from the fourth round of the Lao
Expenditure Consumption Survey (LECS) indicate that poverty has continued to decline to approximately
28 percent in 2007/08 (see Section II for progress with poverty reduction). The impact of the global
financial crisis has been small so far, mostly because most Lao households rely on subsistence
agriculture, forestry and fishing. Nevertheless, households continue to be highly vulnerable to natural
disasters, and as the economy becomes more open and market-oriented more exposed to financial shocks.

6.      Policy dialogue under the PRSO7 is focused on two broad areas: (i) sustaining growth
through improvement of the investment climate, facilitating trade, and enhancing management of natural
resources; and (ii) improving social outcomes through better public financial management systems and
service delivery, as detailed in Section V. Building on sustained commitment by the Government to
reform changes in the two areas supported by the PRSO series, PRSO7 proposes to support the following
policy actions and institutional reforms:

         sustaining growth through improvement of the investment climate, facilitating trade, and
          enhancing management of natural resources – improving the investment climate by streamlining
          investment and customs procedures, implementation of equal treatment to all firms importing or
          exporting across Lao borders as per requirement from the World Trade Organization (WTO),
          enforcing clear and transparent principles for awarding and monitoring licenses                 and
          environmental standards in the mining, finalization of a detailed action plan with clear milestones
          for the financial sector strategy, improving monitoring of the state-owned enterprises (SOEs),
          including the state-owned commercial banks (SOCBs), and approving actionable restructuring
          plans for the four largest SOEs.

         improving social outcomes through better public financial management systems and service
          delivery – implementing the Public Financial Management Strengthening Program (PFMSP) and
          associated capacity building measures; completing the centralization of the Treasury, Customs,
          and Tax Departments; making progress towards implementation of the Treasury Single Account
          (TSA), transforming the government financial information system for timely budget reporting and
          monitoring, clarifying roles and responsibilities of central versus local governments in
          expenditures and service delivery assignment in the social sectors, building capacity in the State
          Audit Organization (SAO) based on the Audit Peer Review, formulating and implementing health
          and education strategies, and strengthening the reporting and data analysis in the health and
          education sectors.

7.       In accordance with standard practice, progress in implementing this PRSO is monitored
through a Program Matrix, updated annually as part of PRSO preparations. The Program Matrix
for the PRSO7 (Annex 2) lays out the prior actions and accompanying policy actions to be completed by
the Government within PRSO7. The rationale of each prior action is presented in Table 7.

8.     The PRSO7 is underpinned by a strong program of analytical and advisory activities
(AAA), both completed and ongoing, and reinforced by the satisfactory implementation of the NT2


2
    See Lao PDR Poverty Assessment, Report No. 38083-LA.

                                                      2
project.3 The design of the PRSO program was based on several key pieces of analytical work prepared
by the World Bank and other development partners.4 These reports are summarized in Section IV on
Analytical Underpinnings.

9.      The design of the PRSO7 pays attention to the criticality principle for budget support
operations and capacity constraints in the Government. It incorporates lessons learned from the
previous series (Section IV on Lessons Learned), especially with respect to addressing risks related to
capacity constraints. In addition, as programmatic budget support, the operation seeks to increase funding
predictability and the associated dialogue between the Government and development partners, sharper
policy prioritization and strengthened donor coordination. The operation also takes into account the good
practice lessons learned on application of conditionality.

10.     In the PRSO7 Letter of Development Policy, the Government has requested that the World
Bank prepare a new PRSO series (PRSO8-11), aligned with and supporting the Government
seventh NSEDP 2011-15. The new PRSO series will be prepared in parallel with the new World Bank
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), and aims to build on the current series and lessons learned, while
selectively opening new fronts of reform support according to the country’s changing development
challenges. The identification process has started through extensive consultations. Broad focus areas have
been jointly discussed among the development partners and the Government, which are expected to
remain broadly in line with the current ones. In light of bringing results on the current reforms, the third
series will maintain the support on their implementation. In addition, new areas might be supported,
consistent with the country’s growing development challenges of diversified and inclusive growth against
the backdrop of economic growth prospects increasingly driven by natural resources. Therefore, focused
discussions among development partners and the Government have started to take place on potential
policy areas such as social sector budgeting and spending, macroeconomic and fiscal framework,
management of natural resources, and investment climate for inclusive growth.

II.     COUNTRY CONTEXT

BACKGROUND

11.     Despite strong growth and progress in reducing poverty, Lao PDR is among the world’s
poorest countries. It is a land-locked nation of 236,000 square km with a population of around six
million (2008). With an estimated per capita income of US$890 in 2009, Lao PDR is one of the poorest
countries in East Asia and is classified by the UN as a Least Developed Country (LDC). Preliminary
estimates suggest that poverty declined from 33 percent in 2002/03 to 28 percent in 2007/08 (national
poverty line). The country has significant natural resources including forestry, minerals and terrain suited
to hydro-electric power with enormous trade potential.

12.     Agriculture remains a mainstay of the economy, albeit with declining importance. It
contributes around 32 percent of GDP (2009) and employs nearly 70 percent of the labor force. Industry
accounts for almost 28 percent of GDP and services for nearly 41 percent. Lao PDR exports mostly
minerals. Other large exports are electricity, garments, agricultural goods, and wood and wood products.
Most of the country’s exports are destined for Thailand, Vietnam, China and Europe, as well as Australia
and Taiwan, China. Imports consist mostly of industrial and capital goods, petroleum, food and other

3
 Implementation of the NT2 project is assessed in six-monthly performance reviews to the Board.
4
  These include the Investment Climate Assessment (ICA), the Diagnostic Trade Integration Study (DTIS), the Public
Expenditure Review & Integrated Fiduciary Assessment (PERIFA), the Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS), the
Financial Sector Assessment, periodic Lao Economic Monitors, as well as ongoing work, such as the Country Economic
Memorandum on Natural Resource Management, the Pay and Compensation Review, and the Poverty and Social Impact
Analysis (PSIA).

                                                        3
consumer products, coming for the most part from Thailand, followed by Vietnam, India, Japan, China,
and South Korea. The economy has also been experiencing a surge in project investment imports and
FDI, following the successful launch of the NT2 project.

13.      Lao PDR has made good progress in the transition from a planned to a market economy,
initially with the introduction of the New Economic Mechanism (NEM) in 1986. The NEM removed
price controls, abandoned socialist cooperative farming as farmers were allowed to work on their plots
and assert ownership; the multiple exchange rate system was unified, the Government’s monopoly on
trade removed, the number of SOEs reduced, and the establishment of private firms allowed. Over the
past decade (1998-2009), real GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6 percent - despite the sharp fall-
off in growth during the regional crisis of 1997-1999. Reforms stalled during the Asian regional crisis, as
Lao PDR struggled to reestablish macroeconomic stability.

14.     A significant decline in poverty has been achieved during the last decade. Relative to Lao
PDR’s national poverty line (based on minimum calorie intake), the incidence of poverty has fallen to
around 28 percent in 2007/08 from 46 percent in 1992/93. Social indicators have been improving as well,
although progress has been uneven. Moreover, on many indicators, Laos compares poorly with other
countries in the region.

RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

15.     Real GDP growth remained robust in 2010 due to strong regional demand and soaring
global commodity prices (Figure 1, Table 1). Growth is estimated to have accelerated to about
8.4 percent in 2010 from 7.5 percent in 2009. The resource sectors contribute about 3.9 percentage points
to this growth: electricity sector including water and gas makes up about 3.2 percentage points (total
domestic output of electricity has doubled in 2010 or increased to about 7,300 gwh/year from 3,700
gwh/year in 2009) while mining and quarry - mostly copper and gold – contribute about 0.7 percentage
points (overall copper output increased by 9 percent in real terms in 2010 or to 132 tons from 121 tons in
2009 while gold extraction was flat at around 200,000 oz/year during the last two years).

16.      The non-resource sectors also sustained a dynamic growth in 2010 with good performance
across major sectors and solid recovery of tourism and garment industries Table 1). In the non-
resource sectors, manufacturing (garments, agro-processing, food and beverages, cement and metal and
other light industries) contributes 0.7 percentage points and construction (infrastructure construction –
roads and bridges, housing and other trade and entertainment/tourism related facilities) about
0.6 percentage points. Although the weather conditions were unfavorable in 2010 (draught and flood in
some remote provinces) the agricultural sector (crops, livestock, fishery and forestry and tree plantations)
is estimated to contribute about 0.8 percentage points in 2010 (slightly lower compared to about
1 percentage point in 2009) driven largely by strong demand and high agricultural prices. Services
(mostly trade, banking and transport services) contribute 2.4 percentage points. The tourism sector has
been recovering well with the total number of visitors expected to be around 2.5 million people in 2010
(an increase by 25 percent compared to 2009). About 80 to 90 percent of the tourists come from the Asia-
Pacific Region, especially from the neighboring countries (Thailand, China and Vietnam).




                                                     4
            Figure 1: GDP Growth, Inflation, and Impact of Resource Sector Projects, 2006-2010
                                    Nonresource sectors (percentage points)                                                                                              Real GDP growth (%)
                                    Resources (percentage points)                                                                                                        Headline inflation (%, annual average)
                                    Real GDP growth (%)
      10                  8.5                                                                                     8.4                   10                       8.5                                                                                            8.4
                                               7.2                  7.5                     7.5                                                                                                                7.5                 7.5
                                                                                                                                             8                                           7.2
       8
                                                                                                                  4.6                        6                                                                 7.6
       6                                                                                                                                                         6.9
                          6.1
                                                                    5.6                     5.0                                                                                                                                                                  6.0
       4                                       7.6                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                         4.5
       2                                                                                                          3.9                        2
                          2.4                                       2.0                     2.5                                                                                                                                    0.1
                                              -0.4
       0                                                                                                                                     0
      -2            2006                      2007               2008                 2009                       2010                                       2006                     2007                  2008                   2009                      2010
                Source: Lao PDR authorities (MPI) and staff estimates.


17.      Headline inflation declined notably late last year to 5.8 percent year-on-year (y-o-y) in
December, supported by lower food prices (Figure 2). Food prices in Lao PDR do not follow the
global trend due to the subsistence nature of food production and relatively limited food exports. The
headline inflation which climbed to more than 8 percent during August-September 2010 has dropped to
5.8 percent in December 2010 as food inflation (especially locally-produced sticky rice, meat and
vegetables) declined during and after the wet season harvest to 8.8 percent in December from 14.2 in
September. Government’s actions partly contributed to lower food inflation by balancing the supply and
demand for food (using rice reserves) in markets, a stable exchange rate policy and a temporary ban on
rice exports. Rice (especially sticky rice which is the predominant food in Lao PDR) is more influenced
by seasonal changes. Unlike Thailand and Vietnam who produce and export mainly ordinary (non-
glutinous) rice to the international markets, Lao PDR produces mostly glutinous (sticky) rice (around 85-
90 percent of total rice outputs), which is mostly consumed domestically and only a small volume of it is
exported annually to Vietnam and Thailand. Core inflation also decreased from 3.6 percent (y-o-y) in
August to 2.4 percent in December. The annualized inflation is about 6 percent in 2010 and projected at
around 5-6 percent in 2011. Although recent global food prices have limited impacts on Lao inflation, the
rise in fuel prices is likely to put upward pressures on future inflation in the country (as a net importer of
fuel).
                                    Figure 2: Inflation has been Declining, Driven by Lower Food Prices
                                                                                                       (12-month percent change)
                                Energy inflation (percentage points)                                                                                                              Rice
                                Food inflation (percentage points)                                                                                                                Vegetables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14.0



                                                                                                                                        16                                        Meat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13.2

                                Core inflation (percentage points)
                                Headline inflation (%, annual average)                                                                                                            Poultry
                                                                                                                                        14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11.0


                                                                                                                                                                                  Fish
                                                                                                                                                 10.0




                                                                                                                                        12                                        The rest
                                                                                                              8.1




 10
                                                                                                             8.0

                                                                                                             7.9




                                                                                                                                                                                  Total food inflation (%, y-o-y)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8.8
                                                                                                                                                          8.6
                                                                                                          6.8



                                                                                                         6.7




                                                                                                                                        10
  8
                                                                                                       5.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.8
                           4.9




                                                                                                                                                                  6.0
                           4.9
                           4.8
                          4.8




                                                                                                                                         8
                          4.7
                         4.2




  6
                                                                                                                                                                5.0
                        3.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.3
                      3.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.0




                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                         3.4
                    2.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.9




  4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.7
                  1.6




                  1.5




                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                     1.3
               0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9
             -0.1
             -0.2




  2
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5


                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0




                                                                                                                                         2
         -1.5
         -1.6



        -1.8
        -1.8




  0
       -2.3




                                                                                                                                                                                              -2.0




                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                             -2.7




 -2                                                                                                                                     -2
 -4                                                                                                                                     -4
       Dec-08

                 Feb-09




                                                        Oct-09

                                                                 Dec-09

                                                                          Feb-10




                                                                                                                  Oct-10

                                                                                                                           Dec-10
                                     Jun-09

                                               Aug-09




                                                                                              Jun-10

                                                                                                        Aug-10




                                                                                                                                                                         Apr-09

                                                                                                                                                                                    Jun-09

                                                                                                                                                                                             Aug-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Apr-10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jun-10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Aug-10
                                                                                                                                                 Dec-08

                                                                                                                                                                Feb-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Oct-09

                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dec-09

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Feb-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Oct-10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Dec-10
                           Apr-09




                                                                                   Apr-10




      Source: Lao PDR authorities and staff estimates.



                                                                                                                                    5
18.      The budget deficit declined in FY2010 due to tightened fiscal policy and improvement in
revenue collection. The fiscal deficit has decreased to 5.7 percent of GDP (2.7 percent came from the
off-budget spending) in FY2010, from 6.7 percent in FY2009. Out of 5.7 percent of the deficit,
4.1 percent is financed domestically (of which BOL’s direct lending about 2.7 percent) and 1.6 percent
from foreign financing. The Government’s domestic revenue is estimated to increase by 21 percent (in
nominal terms) in FY2010 due to higher tax collection, especially from the value-added tax (VAT),
resource royalties and customs duties. However, the revenue to GDP ratio has declined a little to about
13.3 percent in FY2010 compared to 13.8 percent in FY2009 due to rapid GDP growth. This ratio
however is projected to rise to 14.4 percent in FY2011. Public expenditure is estimated to rise slightly to
23.2 percent of GDP in FY2010 from 22.6 percent in FY2009 largely because of the new inclusion of
non-project grants (about 2.4 percent of GDP) into the budget from FY2010. On the other hand,
domestically financed capital investment has declined from 6.6 percent in FY2009 to 5.6 percent in
FY2010 following the phase out of off-budget spending. Recurrent expenditure also slightly fell. As a
result of tightened wage policy, the wage expenditure as a share of GDP is estimated to fall to 4.5 percent
in FY2010 from 5.4 percent in FY2009. However, the wage bill is expected to remain stable in FY2011
while an increase (in nominal terms) for compensations and transfers is budgeted to support expansion of
public services to remote areas, especially for social sectors.

19.      Credit growth slowed by end-2010 due to the phasing out of the BOL’s direct lending to
local government projects and the slowdown of private credit. Credit growth decelerated y-o-y to
about 42 percent in December 2010 from 91 percent in December 2009. Private sector credit growth was
expected to slow to below 45 percent in December 2010 from 88 percent in end-2009. Monetary growth
also seemed to slow by end-2010. Broad money (M2) growth has slowed y-o-y to around 24 percent by
December 2010 from 31 percent in end-2009. Meanwhile, deposits are likely to grow y-o-y by around
27 percent by end-2010 compared to about 30 percent in end-2009. Total credit as percent of GDP has
increased to 25.2 percent by December 2010 from 21.5 percent in end-2009. The officially reported non-
performing loans (NPL) continued to drop from approximately 3.7 percent in June 2010 to around
3 percent in end-2010. It is not clear however whether this improvement is due to enhanced loan
portfolios of banks or a mechanic impact from new loans expansion.

20.      Booming exports, especially from mining and power sectors, narrowed the current account
deficit to about 9.3 percent of GDP in 2010 from 13.6 percent in 2009 (Figure 3, 4 and Table 1). Lao
exports performed well in 2010 supported by increased regional demand, the operational start of new
hydropower projects, and favorable commodity prices. Exports have increased (in nominal terms) by
about 40 percent in 2010 (or US$2 billion) supported by resource exports (electricity grew by 140 percent
and copper and gold together by 48 percent) while imports have grown by about 11 percent driven
mainly by the non-resource sector: the non-resource current account deficit is estimated to deteriorate in
2010 to 20.6 percent of GDP, due to fast rising imports (consumer and some investment related goods)
above the pace of expansion of non-resource exports across sectors (agriculture by 13 percent and
garments by 15 percent, driven by demand from China, Thailand, Vietnam and the EU (garments). Main
Lao exports of goods include minerals/metals (mostly copper and gold), hydro-electricity, garments,
wood and wood products, and agricultural products while imports contain investment goods (machinery
and equipment, construction materials, etc.), fuel, raw materials for garment industries, agriculture and
processing industries, and various consumer goods.




                                                    6
                                     Figure 3: Exports by Sector (US$ million)
                                                                                                                          Copper                         Gold                             Coffee
                         Mining                                                                                           Maize                          Rubber                           Rice
                         Electricity                                                    600
   2500                  Wood & Wood Products
                         Garments                                                       500
   2000                  Agriculture
                         Other                                                          400
   1500
                                                                                        300
   1000                                                                                 200

    500                                                                                 100

      0                                                                                     0




                                                                                                    2002
                                                                                                            2003
                                                                                                                   2004
                                                                                                                          2005
                                                                                                                                 2006
                                                                                                                                        2007
                                                                                                                                               2008
                                                                                                                                                      2009
                                                                                                                                                             2010
                                                                                                                                                                    2011
                                                                                                                                                                           2012
                                                                                                                                                                                  2013
                                                                                                                                                                                         2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                2015
           2006         2007       2008              2009               2010
                  Source: Lao PDR authorities (MOIC) and staff initial estimates, and WB/DECDG’s price projections.


                                                Figure 4: Balance of Payments
                                                       (percent of GDP)
                                                Overall balance                                 Capital account balance
                                                Non-resource CAB                                Current account balance
                                     30                           24.0
                                                                                   20.4
                                                17.3
                                     20                                                              12.4
                                                                                                                          10.1
                                     10        2.8               4.7
                                                                                  1.9                                  1.5
                                        0
                                                                                                   -1.3
                                    -10
                                                                                                                                   -8.6
                                                         -14.4                                                 -13.6
                                    -20                                   -19.3            -18.5
                                                     -19.0             -18.9            -18.9              -18.1             -20.0
                                    -30
                                                2006              2007             2008              2009                 2010
                                     Source: Lao PDR authorities (BOL) and staff initial estimates



21.      In the meantime, net capital inflows are estimated to have decreased by 2.3 percent of GDP
in 2010. The net flow of capitals is estimated to decline to 10.1 percent in 2010 from 12.4 percent
(Figure 5) of GDP in 2009 due to a temporary plunge in foreign investments in the resource sectors
(especially hydropower) and a large increase in income transfers by resource projects (repatriation of
profits of around US$367 million compared to about US$135 million in 2009).

                          Figure 5: Disbursement of FDI in Lao PDR (US$ million)
                                                             Agriculture                                      Manufacturing, etc.
                                                             Services                                           Mining
                                                               Power                                          Gross FDI inflows
                                1200                         Net FDI flows
                                                                                         976
                                1000                                   838
                                                                                                             774                  761
                                 800
                                                512
                                 600
                                 400
                                 200
                                    0
                                               2006                2007                 2008                2009                 2010
                                            Source: Lao PDR authorities (MPI) and staff estimates

                                                                                  7
22.      The Lao kip has been fairly stable against the US dollar in the past few months while
appreciating markedly against the Thai baht (Figure 6). The kip has depreciated marginally against
the US dollar by 0.2 percent during the past three months (November-January) while appreciating
significantly by 3.3 percent against the Thai baht in the same period. The Government pursues a policy
aimed at achieving a delicate balance of stabilized exchange rate vis-a-vis major currencies (with an
objective of ± 5 percent of fluctuations per annum). The effective exchange rate of kip depreciated by
3.2 percent in nominal terms (NEER) and 0.2 percent in real terms (REER) during July-December 2010.
However, the trend seemed to reverse in Q4 of 2010, with appreciation of kip’s NEER by 1.5 percent and
REER by 1.7 percent in December compared to October 2010.

                        Figure 6: Nominal and Real Effective Exchange Rates
                        130
                        125
                        120
                        115
                        110
                        105
                        100                                                                                                NEER                             REER
                         95
                         90
                              2006M12
                                        2007M3
                                                 2007M6
                                                          2007M9
                                                                   2007M12
                                                                             2008M3
                                                                                      2008M6
                                                                                               2008M9
                                                                                                        2008M12
                                                                                                                  2009M3
                                                                                                                           2009M6
                                                                                                                                    2009M9
                                                                                                                                             2009M12
                                                                                                                                                       2010M3
                                                                                                                                                                2010M6
                                                                                                                                                                         2010M9
                                                                                                                                                                                  2010M12
                                 Source: IMF


23.      Net foreign assets and foreign reserves picked up by the end of 2010 after a continuous
decline during the preceding two quarters (Figure 7). Foreign exchange reserves dropped sharply by
18 percent (y-o-y) in the third quarter, recorded at US$531 million. Nevertheless, they started to bounce
back in the fourth quarter following transfers of operational expenditures and tax payments of foreign
companies and some new foreign investments were made. As a result, foreign reserves reached over
US$730 million by end-2010 (covering 3.1 months of imports of goods and services). Net foreign assets
have also followed a similar pattern with a rebound of more than 10 percent (quarter-on-quarter – q-o-q)
in the fourth quarter, reaching over US$600 million. The slowing down of credit growth as of end-2010
has eased the pressure on foreign reserves and net foreign assets (NFA) levels.

                                Figure 7: Net Foreign Assets and Reserves




                         Source: BOL, IMF and WB staff estimates



                                                                                                8
            Table 1: Lao PDR Summary of Macroeconomic Framework, 2006-2013
                                                                           2006      2007     2008         2009        2010     2011     2012      2013
                                                                                                                    Prel-est   Proj     Proj

Output and prices (percent change, unless otherwise indicated)
 Real GDP                                                                    8.5      7.4        7.5          7.5        8.4      8.6      7.6       7.8
    (excluding resources)                                                   5.8       7.1       5.6          4.6         4.9     4.7       4.9       4.8
 GNI p er cap ita (in millions of US dollars)                               540       640       740          880        968    1,044    1,129      1,087
 Consumer p rices (end p eriod)                                             4.7       5.6       3.2          3.9         6.0      6.0      6.0        5.5
 Consumer p rices (% change, p eriod-average)                                6.8       4.5       7.6          0.1        6.0      5.5      5.0        4.5


Public finances (in percent of GDP) 1/
  Total revenue                                                            14.6      15.2      15.2         15.9       17.5     18.3      18.3      19.0
   Total revenue (without non-p roject grants)                               …         …         …            …        15.1     15.0      15.2
    Domestic Revenue                                                       12.6      13.5      13.9         13.8       13.3     14.4      14.6      15.1
     Domestic Revenue (excl. mining)                                       12.6      11.6      11.5         11.6       11.7     11.9      10.3
    Grants                                                                  2.1       1.7       1.3          2.1        4.2      3.9       3.7       3.9
     Grants (without non-p roject grants)                                    …         …         …            …         1.8      0.6       0.6
  Expenditure                                                              17.5      18.2      18.1         22.6       23.2     21.1      20.8      21.5
    Exp enditure (without non-p roject grants)                               …         …         …            …        20.8     17.8      17.7
     Current                                                                9.2       8.7       9.9         10.9       10.0      9.4       9.6      11.1
     Cap ital and onlending                                                 7.3       8.0       7.0         10.7       12.1     11.0      10.1      10.4
       Cap ital and onlending (without non-p roject grants)                  …         …         …            …         9.7      7.7       7.0
         Domestically financed                                              1.2       2.1       2.1          6.6        5.6      3.2       3.0       4.1
         Externally financed and onlending                                  6.1       5.9       4.8          4.0        6.5      7.2       7.1       6.4
           Externally financed (without non-p roject grants)                6.5       5.7       4.7          4.1        4.0      4.2       4.2
           Onlending (net)                                                 -0.4       0.2       0.1         -0.1        0.1     -0.2      -0.2      -0.2
         Others and contingencies (and errors and omissions) /2             1.0       1.5       1.2          1.0        1.1      0.7       1.1       1.2


  Overall budget balance (deficit)                                          -2.9      -2.7     -2.7         -6.7        -5.7    -2.8      -2.5      -2.5
      o/w off-budget                                                          …        …         …          -3.8       -2.7       …         …         …
     o/w on budget                                                           …         …         …          -2.9        -3.0     …         …          …
    Overall budget balance (deficit, excl. mining)                          -2.9      -4.9      -5.3        -8.9        -7.2    -5.3      -6.8

Financing                                                                    2.9       2.7      2.7          6.7        4.8      2.8       2.5       2.5
   Domestic financing                                                       -1.1      -0.9     -1.2          4.9        3.5      1.1       1.0       1.9
   Foreign financing                                                         4.9       3.7      2.9          2.3        1.4      1.7       1.5       0.6
  Additional financing                                                        …         …        …           0.2         …       …          …         …

Balance of payments (in millions of US dollars)
 Current account balance (CAB)                                             -505      -821    -1,030         -857       -702     -912    -1,020      -817
      In p ercent of GDP                                                  -14.4     -19.3     -18.5        -14.0        -9.2   -10.4     -10.4       -9.3
      Non-resource CAB (in p ercent of GDP)/3                             -19.0     -18.9     -18.9        -18.5      -20.5    -22.8     -21.5     -14.5
   Trade balance                                                           -445      -817    -1,033         -988       -642     -614      -484      -970
     Exp orts                                                             1,138     1,215     1,451        1,436      2,052    2,605     2,840     2,293
         o.w. resources                                                     661       677       814          919      1,458    1,925     2,107     2,075
     Imp orts                                                             1,584     2,032     2,484        2,424      2,693    3,219     3,324     3,263
         o.w. resources                                                     502       692       792          644        596      836     1,016     1,179
   Services and income (net)                                               -117       -82      -105            -6      -235     -491      -737        -95
   Transfers                                                                  57       79       108          137        174      192       200       248
 Capital account balance                                                    605     1,023     1,135          780        814    1,324     1,315       932
      In p ercent of GDP                                                   17.3      24.0      20.4         12.8       10.7     15.1      13.4      10.6
 Overall balance                                                            100       202       105           -77       112      411       295       115
      In p ercent of GDP                                                     2.8      4.7        1.9         -1.3        1.5     4.7        3.0       1.3

Trade (in percent of GDP)
 Exp orts                                                                  32.5      28.5      26.1         23.5       26.9     29.7      29.0      26.0
 Imp orts                                                                  45.3      47.7      44.7         39.7       35.4     36.7      33.9      37.0
External public debt stock /4
 In millions of US dollars (end p eriod)                                  2,351     2,521     2,949        3,109      3,270    3,476    3,661      3,931
 In p ercent of GDP (end p eriod)                                          63.1      58.2      54.0         55.4       51.5     51.0     49.9       51.6

  External p ublic debt service
   PPG debt service-to-exp orts ratio (in p ercent)                         3.6       4.0       4.3          5.0        5.0      5.0       5.0       5.4
   PPG debt service-to-revenue ratio (in p ercent)                         10.8      10.8      11.4         11.0       12.6     12.2      11.9      13.8

Gross official reserves
 In millions of US dollars                                                  336       531       636         633         746    1,057    1,242      1,135
 In months of imp orts of goods and services                                 2.4       3.0       2.9         2.9         3.1      3.7      4.2        3.9

Memorandum items:
Nominal GDP (millions of US dollars)                                      3,497     4,263     5,563        6,107      7,615    8,777    9,810     10,656
Exchange rate (kip /US$, average)                                        10,160     9,603     8,635        8,516      8,235    8,029    7,909      7,877
Sources: Staff estimates and p rojections based on data p rovided by the Lao authorities.
1/ Fiscal y ear basis (October to Sep tember).
2/ Includes p ay ments on liabilities carried in from the p revious budget y ears and arrears clearance.
3/ Excluding resource imp orts and exp orts
4/ DSA 2010 data




                                                                          9
MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK

24.     With a gradual recovery of the global economy and dynamic regional demand, Lao PDR’s
economic outlook is encouraging, with growth over the coming years projected at about 8 percent a
year on average (Figure 8 and Figure). This projection assumes sustained levels of global commodity
prices (mainly metals and agriculture) as well as a good recovery in the tourism and garment industries,
implementation of large hydropower projects under construction and in the pipeline (especially Hongsa
Lignite Power Plant), dynamic demand for main Lao export products from the neighboring countries
(especially Thailand, China and Vietnam) and the European Union (EU), and full operations of new large
hydropower projects, such as NT2, Nam Ngum 2 and Nam Like 1-2 in 2011 and onwards. Further
expansion of mining output is assumed for copper and gold in 2011-12 (by Sepon and Phubia).

25.     Lao PDR’s real GDP growth will remain robust in 2011 with projected growth of
8.6 percent. The natural resources and manufacturing sectors are expected to drive growth this year. The
expected growth in the garment exports (by about 15-20 percent in this year) is due to the EU relaxation
in raw material sourcing requirements and increased orders by key garment producers. The service sector
also shows signs of improvement, particularly the transport and tourism sectors (hotels and restaurants)
and retail trading. Agriculture (fishery, livestock and crops) is expected to benefit from the recent increase
in regional demand and higher food prices. Out of 8.6 percent growth in 2011, about 3.6 percentage
points come from the resource sectors, about 1 percentage point each from manufacturing and agriculture,
0.5 percentage points from construction and 2.5 percentage points from services.

                 Figure 8: Medium-Term Real GDP Growth and Inflation (percent)

                                                         Nonresource sectors (percentage points)
                                                         Resources (percentage points)
                                                         Real GDP growth (%)
                                                                                                8.6
                                                                                    8.4




                                                                                                                   7.9
                             10
                                                                                                        7.6
                                                     7.5



                                                                   7.5
                                           7.2




                              8
                              6                                                 4.6             5.0
                                                                  5.0                                   5.3        5.2
                                                    5.6
                              4           7.6
                              2                                                 3.9             3.6
                                                    2.0           2.5                                   2.3        2.7
                              0           -0.4
                             -2          2007      2008           2009          2010       2011       2012       2013-15

                                         Source: Staff estimates and projections.

              Figure 9: Real GDP Growth: Contribution by Sector (percentage points)

                        10
                                                                                                      Services
                         8
                                                            2.4          2.6
                                                                                          2.6         Electricity, gas, and
                                                                                    2.6
                         6        3.1       3.2    3.0                                                water
                                                                                                      Construction
                                                            3.2          3.0        1.4
                         4                                                                2.1
                                            0.8    0.2
                                  1.3                                                                 Manufacturing
                                            2.0    2.4                              1.0
                         2                                  0.7          1.0              0.8
                                                                                                      Mining and quarrying
                                  2.6                       0.7          0.6        0.9   0.6
                                            1.3    0.9      0.8          0.9        0.9   0.9
                         0        -0.4                                                                Agriculture and
                                                                                                      forestry
                        -2


                                         Source: Staff estimates and projections.

                                                                               10
26.     Export earnings are projected to soar in 2011 driven by higher commodity prices and
strong regional demand. Lao exports are projected to grow by nearly 30 percent in 2011 driven largely
by resource exports (electricity and copper), growing at about 32 percent (in nominal terms) in 2011.
Imports are expected to grow by 20 percent in 2011 driven by higher imports of capital and consumption
goods as well as the rise in petrol prices.

27.     Although the trade balance is expected to improve slightly, the current account deficit is
projected to widen to about 10.4 percent in 2011 from about 9 percent in 2010 (Figure 10) because
of larger profit transfers and debt service payments. The capital account surplus is projected to
increase from 10 percent of GDP in 2010 to 15 percent in 2011 with a corresponding surge of new
investment especially from large resource mega projects such as Hongsa lignite coal-fired power plant
(US$3.7 billion project), Phubia’s new gold production facility (about US$150 million) and several other
medium and smaller investment projects across nonresource sectors (especially construction and
services).

         Figure 10: Current Account Balance and Overall Balance of Payments, 2007-2009
                         and Projections for 2010-2013 (percent of GDP)

                                         Current account balance                                                               Non-resource CAB
                                         Overall balance                                                                       Capital account balance
                                              24.0




                          30
                                                                   20.4




                                                                                                                                                     15.1




                                                                                                                                                                                  13.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                               12.8
                                                                                            12.4




                          20
                                                                                                                        10.7
                                        4.7




                                                                                                                                               4.7

                          10
                                                                                                                                                                            3.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.7
                                                             1.9




                                                                                                                  1.5




                           0
                                                                                     -1.3




                          -10
                                                                                                   -9.2




                                                                                                                                                                                         -10.0
                                                                                                                               -10.4




                                                                                                                                                            -10.4
                                                                             -13.6




                          -20
                                                                                                                                                                                                 -17.6
                                                                          -18.1
                                                     -18.5
                                -18.9




                                                     -18.9
                                -19.3




                                                                                                          -20.5




                                                                                                                                                                    -21.5
                                                                                                                                       -22.8




                          -30
                                 2007                 2008                  2009                      2010                         2011                         2012                     2013-15

                                Source: Staff estimates and projections.

28.      The budget deficit, as percentage of GDP, is expected to decline further in FY2010/11
compared to FY2009/10 (Figure 11 and Figure 12). The budget deficit is expected to drop to
2.8 percent in FY2010/11 from 5.7 percent of GDP in FY2009/10 due to tightened expenditure (for both
current and capital spending) and projected higher revenue (especially resource tax revenues) and is
projected to remain below 3 percent over the medium term. Domestic revenue is expected to increase to
14.4 percent of GDP in FY2010/11 from 13.3 percent in FY2009/10 following transfers of taxes, royalties
and dividends from the resource sectors as a result of higher commodity prices (around US$270 million
projected resource revenues including US$220 million from mining taxes in this FY and much higher in
the medium term). The total revenue (including grants) is expected to increase to 18.3 percent of GDP
from 17.5 percent in FY2009/10 driven by higher non-project grants (about 3.3 percent of GDP). Overall
spending is expected to decline to 21.1 percent of GDP in FY2010/11 from 22.3 percent in FY2009/10.
This is due to the phasing out of quasi-fiscal spending (domestically funded capital expenditure) and a
relative decline in recurrent spending (due to the completion of major events, such as the South East Asia
Games and the 450th Anniversary of the Vientiane Capital). The wage bill is expected to remain stable
this fiscal year while an increase (in nominal terms) for compensation and transfers is budgeted to support
expansion of public services to remote areas, especially for social sectors.



                                                                                               11
                  Figure 11: GOL’s Revenue Performance, FY08-FY13 (percent of GDP)

                                                  Revenue and grants                                            Domestic revenue                                              Tax
                                                  Resource revenue                                              Nontax




                                                                                                                               18.4




                                                                                                                                                                18.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                   18.3
                             20




                                                                                                17.5
                                                                 15.9
                             18




                                      15.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                          14.6
                                                                                                                                                                       14.6
                                                                                                                                      14.4
                                    13.9




                                                                        13.8
                             16




                                                                                                       13.3




                                                                                                                                             12.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13.1
                                                                                                                                                                              13.0
                             14




                                                                               12.2
                                             12.1




                                                                                                              11.8
                             12
                             10
                              8




                                                                                                                                                                                     5.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.0
                              6




                                                                                                                                                    3.2
                                                       3.1




                                                                                        2.7




                                                                                                                      2.0
                              4
                                                    1.8




                                                                                      1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5
                                                                                                                                                          1.5
                                                                                                                     1.5
                              2
                              0
                                      FY08                          FY09                           FY10                           FY11                                 FY12                           FY13

                                                                 Source: Staff estimates and projections.


             Figure 12: Summary of the Medium-Term Fiscal Framework (percent of GDP)

                                                                Revenue and grants                                                                         Overall budget balance
                                                                Expenditurte                                                                               Nonresource balance
                                                                                                                23.2
                                                                                 22.6




                                                                                                                                                21.2




                                                                                                                                                                                 20.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20.8
                             25
                                                                                                                                18.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.3
                                                                                                                                                                  18.4
                                                  18.1




                                                                                                 17.5




                             20
                                                                  15.9
                                    15.2




                             15
                             10
                               5
                               0
                                                                                                                                                                          -2.5
                                           -2.7




                                                                                                                                        -2.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                            -2.5

                              -5
                                                                                                         -5.7
                                                                         -6.7
                                                         -7.3




                             -10
                                                                                                                                                       -9.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -11.2
                                                                                        -11.4




                                                                                                                                                                                           -11.5
                                                                                                                       -11.9




                             -15
                                      FY08                          FY09                           FY10                               FY11                             FY12                               FY13


                                                                 Source: Staff estimates and projections.


29.      In 2011, it is likely that the Government would continue to slow credit growth to limit risks
in the banking sector and reduce balance of payments pressures through imports. The credit growth
(y-o-y) is projected to decline to 32 percent in 2011 from about 42 percent in 2010 due to the phasing out
of direct lending by the Government and recent sharp increases in oil prices putting upward pressures on
Lao inflation in the coming months. In addition, high commodity prices, especially fuel, will require
careful monitoring in the coming months and years. 5

30.      The net foreign assets (NFA) and international reserves are expected to rise in 2011 and
beyond with a projected strong rebound in net capital inflows more than offsetting the current balance
deficit. This improvement of the NFA and reserve position would also reduce downward pressures on the
exchange rate.

5
  Laos is a net importer of fuel with fast growing domestic demand for this product (by 15 percent a year). The country is
estimated to import oil products worth around US$500 million in 2010 (or about 15-20 percent of the total imports). During the
last food and oil price hike in 2008, fuel prices were shown to have a large impact on inflation. Transport, which makes up almost
26 percent of total CPI, received the largest impact from the fuel price increases, followed by construction and housing,
beverages and other personal care product groups.

                                                                                                                     12
DEBT SUSTAINABILITY

31.     According to the most recent debt sustainability analysis (DSA), Lao PDR continues to face
a high risk of debt distress.6 External public and publicly-guaranteed (PPG) debt stocks remain elevated,
but the high level of concessionality of official borrowing, which comprises most of Lao's debt, keeps
debt service ratios relatively contained. Public external debt stock indicators are expected to remain at or
above policy-dependent indicative thresholds throughout half of the projection period under the baseline
scenario, and could increase further in the event of weaker macroeconomic performance or greater
accumulation of non-concessional debt. Debt servicing ratios, however, remain below the relevant
thresholds even under alternative assumptions.

32.      The debt profile has improved in recent years, in part because the Government has
generally followed a prudent strategy of avoiding the accumulation of non-concessional debt. Strong
economic growth, currency appreciation, and prudent debt management contributed to a decline in the
debt ratio over the past few years—the stock of external PPG debt in nominal terms was US$3.1 billion at
end-2009, or 55 percent of GDP, down from 82 percent at end-2005. The nominal debt stock increased by
US$230 million in 2009. All the new debt is contracted at concessional terms. The corresponding net
present value (NPV) of debt at end-2009 was 43 percent of GDP or 129 percent of exports of goods and
non-factor services. In terms of composition, nearly 66 percent of PPG debt is held by multilateral
creditors, mainly the ADB and IDA. About 31 percent is held by bilateral creditors, including a large
Soviet-era debt to Russia that is currently under negotiation. Only 3 percent comprises external debt
incurred by public entities on non-concessional terms, mainly for hydropower development and electricity
generation. The increasing presence of emerging market creditors underscores the need to strengthen debt
management capacity to ensure that debt sustainability considerations are taken into account when new
debt is contracted.

33.     Domestic public debt, while still relatively small, rose in 2009 as the BOL extended sizable
direct credit to local governments. At end-2009, the stock of recorded domestic public debt amounted
to 6.1 percent of GDP, up from 3.0 percent of GDP at end-2008, driven mainly by BOL direct lending to
finance local government’s off-budget infrastructure projects, which added kip 1,628 billion
(US$192 million or 3.4 percent of GDP) to domestic debt in 2009. Total PPG domestic and external debt
stood at 61.5 percent of GDP in 2009. The stock of BOL lending to local governments is expected to peak
in 2010, with total commitments of over kip 3 trillion likely fully disbursed by September and repayments
from the central government budget kicking in.

34.      Under the baseline scenario, the three public external debt stock indicators remain above
the policy-dependent indicative debt burden thresholds in the first part of the projection period
(Table 2). Unlike in last year’s DSA, mainly reflecting the recovery of copper prices, the present value
(PV) of debt-to-exports ratio exceeds the threshold level only in 2010 under the baseline scenario. All
three external debt stock indicators are projected to be on a declining trend from 2010 onward, reflecting
prudent borrowing and strong economic growth. Debt service ratios (both as a share of exports and
government revenues) remain well below indicative thresholds throughout the 20-year projection period,
despite falling concessionality.

35.    External debt sustainability is most vulnerable to a depreciation of the nominal exchange
rate and lower export growth.7 In the same way that the sustained strong appreciation of the kip over

6
  The most recent DSA has been completed jointly by the World Bank and the IMF, in collaboration with the ADB
in June 2010.
7
  The most extreme stress test is defined as the bound test resulting in the most extreme deterioration of the debt
burden indicator after 10 years.

                                                        13
the past couple of years served to bring the debt ratio down considerably, a 30 percent depreciation in the
kip would lead to a sharp jump in the net present value (NPV) of debt-to-GDP and debt-to-revenue ratios
which would remain above the respective debt stock thresholds through most or all of the projection
period. Under this shock, debt levels (both related to GDP and revenue) would only decline below the
thresholds over the very long term. Lower export growth (by one standard deviation in 2010-11) would
push the NPV of debt-to-exports up to double its baseline level over the first half of the projection period
and in excess of indicative thresholds throughout.

36.      External borrowing should be obtained on concessional terms and fiscal and quasi-fiscal
liabilities should be carefully managed, to guard against external vulnerabilities and to ensure debt
ratios remain on a declining path. Continued prudent debt management as well as cautious assessment
and monitoring of large-scale projects will be required to mitigate the risks posed to external and public
debt sustainability. Fiscal risk could arise if these projects fail to generate the expected returns, including
to the Government’s own equity stakes. The BOL’s exit from direct lending to local governments is a
welcome development. Improving debt management capacity and developing a medium-term borrowing
strategy for the Government, including for resource sector activity, as well as greater disclosure of
borrowing plans, would substantially enhance the assessment of debt sustainability. In view of the high
risk of debt distress, recourse to nonconcessional external financing should be strictly limited to viable
projects.

                                        Table 2: Lao PDR External Debt Indicators

           Lao P.D.R.: External Public Debt Indicators                         Lao P.D.R.: Stock of Public and Publicly-Guaranteed
                          at End-2009                                                       External Debt at End-2009

                                                Indicative                                                            As a Share
                                                                                                       In billions of     of Total   In percent
                                               Thresholds    End-2009
                                                                                                       U.S. Dollars External Debt       of GDP
     Present value of debt, as a percent of:                                 Total                              3.1           100           55.5
      GDP                                              30         43         Multilateral                     2.05             66           36.7
      Exports                                         100        129         Bilateral                        0.95             31           17.0
      Revenue                                         200        283         Commercial 1/                     0.1              3            1.8
     Debt service, as a percent of:
      Exports                                          15          5           Sources: Lao P.D.R. authorities; and IMF and World Bank
      Revenue                                          25         11         staffs’ estimates.
                                                                               1/ Includes direct borrowing by state-owned enterprises on
       Source: IMF staff estimates.                                          nonconcessional terms.


    Source: Joint Bank-Fund Debt Sustainability Assessment, 2010.


37.      Lao PDR chose not to avail itself of debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Country
(HIPC) Initiative or the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). Because Lao PDR is classified as
having a high risk of debt distress, under the debt sustainability framework Lao PDR receives all IDA
assistance on grant terms (PRSO2-6, and the proposed PRSO7 are IDA grants). Lao PDR is also eligible
for up to 50 percent of grants within its performance based allocation from the ADB.

38.     In summary, the medium term economic outlook for Lao PDR continues to be optimistic
despite inflationary risks associated with the recent fuel price shock. The sustainability of fiscal and
monetary policies has been strengthened, with a significant reduction in budget deficit (partly due to
prudent wage and capital spending budgeting), slowdown in credit growth (mainly due to the phasing out
of BOL’s direct lending to local projects) and rebound in reserves. Looking forward, inflation, especially
coming from food and fuel, will need to be monitored closely to anticipate and mitigate impacts of the
economy.



                                                                        14
PROGRESS WITH POVERTY REDUCTION

39.      Lao PDR has achieved significant progress in poverty reduction, while the effect of the
global financial crisis of poverty and social outcomes has been small. The poverty headcount 8 has
declined from almost half the population to below one quarter within a decade. In 1992/93, basic needs
were not met for 46 percent of people, but this number fell to 39 percent in 1997/78, to 33 percent by
2002/03 and to 28 percent by 2007/8. The share of poverty was reduced by 30 percent in one decade,
lifting one eighth of the total population out of poverty. Even though the population grew by more than
one million between 1992/93 and 2007/8, the absolute number of the poor declined to just over
1.5 million.

40.      However, significant challenges remain. Urban areas and districts along the Thai border have
experienced rapid growth and poverty reduction, but other groups continue to lag behind. The northern
part of the country remains poorer than the southern and central regions, and uplands are poorer than the
lowlands. Poverty rates vary according to ethnicity, with the Lao-Tai displaying lower poverty incidence.
The priority districts remain much poorer than non-priority districts, which have been the focus of the
intervention by the Government and development partners. Despite the efforts to targeting of government
expenditures at these areas, poverty reduction in these areas has been relatively slow. The reason for this
finding remains to be further clarified. It should be also be noted that, due to the small population share in
the priority districts, 43 percent of the poor live in areas with higher population density which are not part
of priority districts, including in urban centers and the provinces along the Mekong.

41.     Liberalization of the private sector, trade and expansion of the road network were major
drivers of poverty reduction during the period of 1997/98-2002/03.9 Other major entry points for
poverty reduction include road access to market, farming productivity, lack of ownership of land and
livestock, limited access to credit and weak marketing chains. In addition to the geographical factors,
major causes of poverty include the legacy of physical devastation during the Vietnam War, with
unexploded ordinance (UXO) still affecting half of the country’s territory; weak public service delivery,
especially in the health and education sectors; inadequate communications infrastructure; and
shortcomings and weaknesses in the management of public resources.

42.      Household vulnerability to shocks remains high, but so far the impact of the crisis seems
small. First, Lao households are highly vulnerable to natural disasters and shocks. Second, the food and
financial crises have highlighted new forms of vulnerability which, while still limited, will grow in
significance over the years, as Lao economy becomes more open to global markets and increasingly
marketized. At this point nevertheless, the impact of increased food prices appears to be relatively muted.
Similarly, although there have been some impacts of the global financial crisis on trade, the natural
resource sector and tourism, most of the Lao households still rely on subsistence agriculture. As a result,
the impacts on social and poverty outcomes have been small.

TOWARDS ACHIEVING MDGs

43.     Lao PDR faces multiple challenges in meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
by 2015. The second national report on the implementation of the MDGs in the Lao PDR has been
prepared by the Government and UNDP. The MDG report sets the goals to be met by 2015, in
accordance with the national priorities and through the implementation of the National Growth and
Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES). Lao PDR lags behind the regional and low-income country’s

8
  The poverty headcount shows the share of poor people in the total population. This is the share of population whose per capita
consumption is below the national poverty line. This line is designed to approximate the expenditure needed to cover basic food
and non-food needs, and is lower than the US$1.25 a day poverty line.
9
  Lao PDR Poverty Assessment, ibid.

                                                              15
averages on many key social indicators (Table 5). Overall, the Lao PDR’s mixed record on social
indicators reflects a difficult transition process in the 1990s, a low tax collection effort at less than 11 to
12 percent of GDP until the last 2 years and significant decentralization with lack of adequate central
oversight. Available data suggest that the Lao PDR is off track on a number of the MDGs, including
malnutrition, measles immunization, skilled birth attendance, and some dimensions of gender equality
(girl’s equal enrollment in tertiary education).

44.       Education is among the better performing sectors in Laos, at about the halfway point
between the 1990 benchmark and the 2015 target date. The literacy rate for young adults (15 to
24 year-olds) is roughly on target (showing progress from the 71 percent in 1995 to 84 percent in 2005).
Although this represents good progress, literacy rates are well below regional averages: an adult literacy
rate at 84 percent continues to represent a considerable distance with the regional average at 98 percent.
Enrolment rates data also show a steady progress, from 58 percent in 1991 to 92.7 percent in 2009-2010,
but still behind Cambodia and Thailand. Finally, the primary school completion rate shows an increase
from 48 percent in 2001 to 60 percent in 2004, and the most recent figures from 2009-2010 indicate a
survival rate until Grade 5 of 71.1 percent, which is a good rate of progress. However, even with planned
increasing in financial resources from the Government and development partners for the education sector,
it appears that the MDG target of 90 percent primary completion is at risk of not being achieved.

45.     Progress towards the health MDGs has been mixed. The under-5 mortality rate has declined
from 170 to 98 between 1995 and 2005. While child mortality is still high, the MDG target is within
reach. There has been less progress on other health indicators, in particular malnutrition, skilled birth
attendance, and immunization coverage. The need for progress in these areas represents a considerable
challenge for the coming years.




                                                      16
                                      Table 3: Selected Social Indicators for Lao PDR
                                                                                               Previous           Update           Evolution
                                                            East Asia & Pacific                70 (2004)         71 (2005)
        Life expectancy at birth (years)                    Lao PDR                            55 (2004)         56 (2005)
                                                            Low income countries               59 (2004)         59 (2005)               -
                                                            East Asia & Pacific                29 (2004)         26 (2005)
                 Infant mortality                           Lao PDR                            77 (2000)         70 (2005)
              (per 1,000 live births)                       Low income countries               80 (2004)         75 (2005)
                                                            East Asia & Pacific               117(2004)              -                   -
              Maternal mortality                            Lao PDR                           405 (2005)             -                   -
            (per 100,000 live births)                       Low income countries              684 (2004)             -                   -
                                                            East Asia & Pacific                15 (2000)         15 (2005)
       Child malnutrition, weight for age                   Lao PDR                            40 (2000)         38 (2006)
                (% of under 5)                              Low income countries              39 (2004)              -                   -
                                                            East Asia & Pacific                79 (2004)         79 (2005)               -
        Access to improved water source                     Lao PDR                            51 (2004)         58 (2006)
               (% of population)                            Low income countries               75 (2004)         75 (2005)               -
                                                            East Asia & Pacific                51 (2004)         51 (2005)               -
  Access to improved sanitation facilities                  Lao PDR                            30 (2004)         45 (2006)
             (% of population)                              Low income countries               38 (2004)         38 (2005)               -
                                                            East Asia & Pacific                91 (2004)         98 (2005)
       Literacy (% of population age 15+)                   Lao PDR                            73 (2005)         84 (2005)
                                                            Low income countries               62 (2004)         74 (2005)
                                                            East Asia & Pacific                    -                 -                   -
           Children reaching grade 5                        Lao PDR                            63 (2003)         68 (2008)               -
            (% of grade 1 students)                         Low income countries              72 (2003)          76 (2005)
                                                            East Asia & Pacific                98 (2004)         98 (2005)               -
         Primary completion rate, total                     Lao PDR                            74 (2004)         76 (2005)
           (% of relevant age group)                        Low income countries               78 (2004)         74 (2005)
Source: World Bank data, and Population and Housing Census for 2005 (NSC).
Note: Latest year available. Maternal mortality rates for East Asia & Pacific and Low Income Countries are adjusted. Primary completion rate
is the total number of students successfully completing the last year of primary school in a given year, divided by the total number of children of
official graduation age in the population.


III.       THE GOVERNMENT’S PROGRAM

46.      The NGPES and NSEDP were developed through an increasingly participatory process,
established a framework for future reforms and made the Government development priorities
more explicit and transparent. These priorities are consistent with the multi-dimensional nature of
poverty alleviation and seek, in particular, to: (i) deepen structural reforms in areas including public
expenditure management, financial sector, SOEs, private sector development, trade and legal
development; (ii) maintain macroeconomic stability by increasing revenue and ensuring appropriate
monetary and fiscal policy; (iii) invest in the social sectors to expand access and improve social sector
outcomes; (iv) invest in infrastructure such as roads, power and water supply, and expand access to these
services; (v) invest in rural development and natural resource management, including support for
agricultural, mining, forestry and hydropower development; and (vi) strengthen national capacity and
institutions. The Poverty Reduction Strategy underpins both the CAS and the PRSO program.




                                                                        17
47.      The Sixth NSEDP 2006-10 and the Progress Report are viewed as a Poverty Reduction
Strategy that fulfills the main criteria: poverty focus, broad participation, results orientation, and
donor harmonization. The NSEDP 2006-10 integrates the NGPES and builds on its participatory
approach, poverty focus and to some extent results orientation. It complies with the key features of a
successful Poverty Reduction Strategy. In particular, it is more poverty and result-focused than the
NGPES, also setting out more realistic targets and objectives than in the past plans. The NSEDP
consultation process was also broader than in previous plans, with inclusion of development partners and
private sector for the first time. It contains a small but functional monitoring and evaluation framework.
It also discusses donor harmonization issues. At the same time, the NSEDP would have benefited from
greater analysis of resource implications of policy actions and reforms, from a stronger monitoring and
evaluation framework and from the development of a comprehensive macroeconomic framework.
International non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and development partners active in the Lao PDR
endorsed the final NSEDP at the 9th Round Table Meeting (RTM) on November 28, 2006, and
reconfirmed their commitment at the three subsequent Round Table Implementation Meetings in
November 2007, 2008 and 2009.

48.       The NSEDP envisages the reduction of poverty through a combination of broad-based
economic growth and focused and policy interventions. The four strategic intervention areas of the
plan are: (i) human development and private sector driven economic growth; (ii) competitiveness, trade
and regional integration; (iii) social development and targeted poverty reduction interventions; and
(iv) good governance. Through these key priority intervention areas, the NSEDP enables the evolution of
the Lao PDR’s economy towards a private sector-led system with modern governance, while keeping a
strong focus on human and social development. The geographical targeting of NSEDP’s interventions
reflects the empirical evidence provided by the most recent household survey and the Lao PDR Poverty
Assessment. The PRSO considers focused interventions on the first two pillars under Component 1 and
the last two pillars under Component 2 of the Policy Action Matrix.

49.       Broad orientations of the seventh NSEDP (2011-2015) continues to focus on achieving the
MDGs in 2015 and transitioning out of the LDC status by 2020. The next plan five overarching goals
are: (i) improving livelihoods, human development and poverty reduction; (ii) macroeconomic stability
with rapid economic growth that benefits the most poor; (iii) social development and environmental
protection; (iv) improved governance, capacity and transparency; and (v) strengthened international
cooperation and regional integration. Extensive consultations with key stakeholders are underway, and
several consultations with development partners through sectoral working groups have been taking place.
The 7th NSEDP will be officially approved in June 2011 by the National Assembly. This NSEDP will
provide a guiding framework for developing the third series of PRSO11-15.

REVIEW OF KEY POLICY REFORMS UNDER THE FIRST SIX PRSOs

50.      With the promulgation of the Enterprise Law in 2005, several important steps have been
taken to simplify business entry, including elimination of minimum capital requirement for starting a
business, introduction of simplified business registration system in August 2008, and abolishment of
establishment license for general manufacturing firms. With the intention to further improve the overall
investment climate in the country, the National Assembly approved a new Unified Investment Promotion
Law to replace two existing investment laws (July 2009). Among others, the new law has abolished very
lengthy and cumbersome licensing approval procedures for general investment activities, and created a
level-playing field for both domestic and foreign investors by harmonizing business entry procedures and
investment incentives. In order to ensure effective implementation of the new Unified Investment
Promotion Law upon its promulgation, various ministries and agencies are currently reviewing relevant
laws and regulations under their jurisdictions to identify and resolve any possible inconsistencies between
the Investment Promotion Law and other existing laws and regulations. The Government and the

                                                    18
National Chamber of Commerce and Industry have recently institutionalized a regular dialogue
mechanism at both the central and provincial levels to identify and address impediments to business
creation and expansion. The Government has also committed to an SME strategy encompassing reform
measures in many investment climate components, such as regulatory environment for businesses
operations, access to finance, and business support services. In the financial sector, several laws and
regulations have been developed in order to level the playing field between private and state-owned
banks, and between domestic and foreign owned banks, and provide services for domestic and foreign,
small and large businesses. These include adoption of a Law on Commercial Banks, Secure Transactions
Law, revision of Presidential Decree on precious metals and foreign exchange, regulations on deposit
taking and non-deposit taking micro-finance institutions, and efforts to improve credit information
system, and to establish collateral registry for movable assets. The BOL adopted the Action Plan to
implement the Financial Sector Strategy in April 2010.

51.      The Government has entered into regional and international agreements that require
increased transparency and commitments to specific economic policies by member states. Lao PDR
has joined ASEAN/AFTA, and is also a member of the World Customs Organization (WCO). Lao PDR is
committed to acceding to the WTO and is making steady progress towards this goal. Lao PDR has
concluded bilateral agreements with China and Japan on goods and services, and with the EU on goods.
The 6th Lao WTO accession Working Party (WP) meeting took place in September 2010 and the 7th WP is
planned for mid 2011, where Laos hopes to be granted permission to move from drafting “elements of the
draft WP report” to a full draft of the WP report. As part of the accession process, the country is
introducing a number of reforms to the legal and policy environment for trade in order to improve
transparency and align the legal framework with international norms. Legislation to provide for automatic
import licenses in all products except for those on a “negative” controlled list as well as WTO-consistent
Rules of Origin was introduced in mid-2009 and May 2010 respectively – two key requirements of WTO
Working Party members. In 2005/06, Lao PDR undertook a Diagnostic Trade Integration Study (DTIS) in
order to identify the main constraints to improved trade performance. Based on the DTIS “Action
Matrix”, the Government has been working to systematically address these constraints, build institutional
capacity and to simplify and streamline the regulatory environment for trade. The Government is now
working on a DTIS update as a basis for a new round of trade reforms. Lao PDR has also made progress
on its commitments to reduce tariffs under regional agreements and other related reforms.

52.      The Government is also introducing policy and institutional reforms to enhance sustainable
management of investments in natural resources. As a whole, the natural resource sector (hydropower
and mining) have become a significant contributor to the national economy: (i) mineral exports represent
40 to 50 percent of total national exports, and current power exports contribute an additional 10 percent;
(ii) direct government revenue from taxation10 of mining and hydro operations combined has represented
20 to 25 percent of total tax collection since 2007; and (iii) localized economic impacts are significant
from service industries, direct employment, and alluvial and small-scale mining. The Government has
been working toward improving environmental and social management of hydropower facilities,
including strengthening the regulatory environment, institutional setup, and building the resources and
capacity to improve enforcement over time. The approval of a Prime Minister’s decree on environmental
impact assessment, and the disclosure of the annual status report on the national policy on sustainable
hydropower are key steps forward in this area. These actions are taking place within the broad directions
of the National Policy on Environmental and Social Sustainability of the Hydropower Sector. In the
mining sector, the approval of the Minerals Law by the National Assembly is a decisive policy step
towards sector strengthening. The law seeks to improve transparency and predictability in grating
exploration/mining licenses to investors, clarify regulations regarding the transfer of mining rights, clarify


10
     Profit tax royalties, and other fees, but excluding dividend payments.

                                                                  19
government’s equity rights in mining projects, clarify and improve the competitiveness of the fiscal
regime, and to propose standard mineral exploration and mining agreements.

53.      The Government implemented measures aimed at improving the financial performance of
SOEs, including supporting SOEs corporatization and cost-recovery for state-owned utilities.
Reforms implemented in the early 1990s reduced the number of SOEs substantially. The SOE sector is
relatively small with less than 15,000 employees. The performance of the sector has continuously
improved since 2006 as indicated by the decline in total losses of central SOEs. Total losses of central
SOEs went down to 14 billion kip in 2008 (0.2 percent of total Government revenue) from about
56 billion kip in 2006. Nevertheless, many SOEs, especially the smaller ones continue to make losses and
their corporatization remains an unfinished agenda. Since 2002, international audits were undertaken by
Government for the largest loss-making SOEs and for SOCBs, restructuring plans for the four largest
loss-making SOEs were also developed and started implementation. The Government is finalizing
restructuring plans for an additional four SOEs (Phase II) and has started to develop restructuring plans
for the remaining four SOEs (Phase III). The Government has also established regular monitoring of the
progress against the restructuring plans of SOEs and against financial targets established for the SOCBs.

54.     Progress has been slower on implementation of restructuring plans for SOEs. The
implementation of restructuring plans has been slower than anticipated, due to partly unclear division of
responsibilities between National Committee for Business Development (NCBD - former Business
Promotion Office), MOF and line ministries over implementation of restructuring plans, and lack of
strong ownership from senior managers of the SOEs. However, the ongoing effort of the Government to
develop the first medium term strategy for SOE reform is expected to provide concrete measures to
improve corporate governance of strategic SOEs, define the Government’s role in non-strategic SOEs,
and clarify the role of NCBD and other relevant agencies in SOE reform process..

55.      The Government has achieved progress in bringing state-owned utilities towards cost
recovery levels, especially Electricity du Laos (EDL). Regular and on-schedule electricity and water
tariff increases took place during PRSO1-6, moving state-owned utilities to cost recovery levels. The
Government is following the Action Plan for the Financial Sustainability of the Power Sector to ensure
financial viability of EDL. Financial viability of the power sector has four key aspects: (i) settle electricity
arrears of the Government for the year ending September 2009; (ii) implement an arrangement for
ensuring that future government bills for electricity consumption are paid in full, and on time – as per the
billing cycle, so that the receivables from government agencies do not exceed 3 months of receivables
post end of the fiscal year – allowing for reconciliation of bills between MOF and EDL; (iii) annual tariff
adjustment for EDL to achieve financial performance targets; and (iv) reduction of technical and
commercial losses by EDL. EDL has reported profits since 2007 due to the tariff adjustments, significant
reduction in system losses and arrears settlements.

56.      The Lao financial sector is gradually moving toward commercialization, transparency and
sustainability. The banking sector has shown stability over the past years, and has accelerated the pace
of its development over the past few years. That does not come without risks, and the sector might be
vulnerable to shocks in the medium-term. The size of the formal financial sector is gradually increasing,
while relatively low by international standards and similar levels of income per capita. Monetization rate
is increasing, while relatively low. The share of broad money (M2) in GDP has increased to 32 percent as
of end December 2009, up from 27 percent in 2008. The financial system remains dominated by SOCBs,
which account for 67 percent of total banking assets in December 2009, while 5 new banks have recently
entered the domestic market. ). The NPL figure of Laos banking system dropped from 10.5 percent at the
end of 2006 to 3.7 percent in June 2010. Concerns exist pertaining to the accuracy of NPL accounting, as
well as whether the rapid NPL reduction comes from portfolio improvement or from a mechanical impact
of fast credit expansion.

                                                      20
57.       During PRSO1-6, the financial sector reforms concentrated on the restructuring of the
SOCBs, strengthening the supervisory role of the central bank and improving legislation (Box 1).
Independent international auditors have regularly performed audits based on International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and provide an impartial assessment of the financial and performance
situation of SOCBs. The performance of two SOCBs (BCEL and LDB) met the operational and financial
target set in the ADB -BOL agreed Governance Agreement (GA) and thus both were eligible to be
recapitalized by MOF in 2006-2009. The Accounting Law supporting the International Accounting
Standards (IAS) and Regulations for deposit taking and non-deposit taking Microfinance and Law on
Commercial Banks were enacted and implemented within PRSO1-5. In addition, as of January 1, 2009,
BOL fully enforced the new Accounting Law (chart of account) on every commercial bank. However,
due to some technical problems related to the new accounting standard, BOL experiences disruptions in
the reporting system. In addition, BOL, acting on behalf of the Government, finalized the Action Plan of
the first Financial Sector Strategy (FSS) which aims at developing a strong, efficient, well-recognized and
competitive financial system.

58.     Substantial progress is being made in the overall public financial management reform
program. Within the Government’s Public Finance Management Strengthening Program (PFMSP), the
PRSO series has concentrated on assisting the Government in putting in place an appropriate legislative
framework for managing budgetary resources and starting implementation of the Budget Law of 2007
which focuses on centralization of the Treasury Department, Customs Department, and the Tax
Department, along with development of a new revenue sharing framework. Some of the key PFM reforms
implemented to-date by the Government are: (i) establishing centralized control over all provincial and
ministerial spending accounts, representing about 80 percent of total budgetary resources; (ii) revising the
budget classification system to be consistent the IMF GFS statistics, and implementing it since
FY2008/09 budget (iii) publishing, with expanding coverage and improved timeliness, the annual budget
and outturn reports; (iv) mandating minimum spending on health and education sectors by provincial
governments starting FY2008/09; and (v) improving the legislative framework governing public financial
management and external audit. The PRSO program has been instrumental in supporting the
Government’s policy reform framework in these areas.




                                                    21
                                    Box 1. Lao PDR Financial Sector Strategy
The Lao PDR Financial Sector Strategy was approved by the Government in October 2009. It reflects the vision of
the Lao authorities for the long term development of the financial sector by laying out the main directions of
reforms, investments and capacity building to be implemented over the period 2009-2020 in six sub-sectors:
1. Banks. The respective roles of the central bank and commercial banks have been clarified following the
     adoption of the two-tier banking system in 1989. The following priorities have been identified to strengthen the
     central bank functions of the Bank of Lao PDR:
      Improve a comprehensive, accurate and timely data collection system; (ii) Develop a standardized reporting
          system; (ii) Increase the efficiency of monetary and exchange rate policies; (iii) Strengthen the supervision
          of commercial banks and other financial institutions; (iv) Strengthen internal administration and
          governance.
     To promote fair competition in the commercial banking industry, the priorities strategies will be followed:
      Promote internal corporate governance; (ii) Comply with the prudential regulations; (iii) Strengthen the
          reporting system; (iv) Privatize the SOCBs; (v) Reduce barrier to entry into the banking industry;
          (vi) Promote modern technology.
2. Non-Bank Financial Institutions. Insurance companies, social security funds, provident funds, leasing
     companies, finance companies, securities companies are classified as Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs).
     Well functioning NBFIs promote fund mobilization, access to financial services and credit extension. There are
     only a few NBFIs in Lao and most of them are not officially regulated. BOL supervises and regulates only the
     deposit-taking NBFIs. To improve the sub-sector performance, the following strategies have been identified:
      (i) Establish a formal regulating agency to supervise Non-Deposit Taking NBFIs; (ii) Strengthen the legal
          framework; (iii) Develop supervisory, monitoring and auditing standards; (iv) Promote new technology.
3. Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs). The Government encourages Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs) as an
     alternative to provide financial services for poor, low-income households and rural people. Like the NBFIs,
     only the deposit taking MFIs are supervised by BOL. The following strategies have been identified to
     strengthen the sub-sector:
      (i) Establish a formal regulating agencies to supervise Non-Deposit Taking MFIs and (ii) a basic legal
          framework.
4. Money Markets. Fully functioning money and inter-bank markets will be instrumental to better manage
     liquidity in the financial system and enhance the efficiency of monetary and exchange rate policies through
     indirect instruments. The strategies to improve both markets are summarized as follows:
      (i) Establish and enforce regulatory framework; (ii) Promote modern technology and equipments; and
          (iii) Adopt International Accounting Standards.
5. Capital Market. The Government plans to establish an electronic bidding stock market in 2010. The
     development of a stock market is aimed to create favorable conditions for long-term investment and allow
     greater mobilization of funds. The following steps are identified to prepare for stock market establishment:
      Create the basic conditions for the establishment of stock market operations and enhance its efficiency over
          time in order to be fully integrated with the region and the world.
6. Financial Sector Infrastructure. The improvement of infrastructure is essential to support the future expansion of
     the sector. The following strategies are identified to improve the infrastructure of the sector:
      (i) Establish an effective legal framework; (ii) Improve accounting standards; (iii) Develop the efficient
          payment/settlement system; and (iv) Establish a confident safety net for depositors; and (v) Strengthen
          human resources.

59.     Revenue collection effort has been increasing. The Government has succeeded in improving
revenue forecasting and collections, as demonstrated by the achievement of its revenue target for the past
three years.11 The domestic revenue to GDP ratio increased from 12.6 percent in 2005/06 to 14.6 by
2009/10. This increase in revenue effort is a combination of public financial management reforms as well
as high commodity prices. Improvements in revenue collection and enhanced expenditure controls have

11
   The Lao PDR Public Expenditure Review and Integrated Fiduciary Assessment (2007) highlighted shortfalls in revenue
collection a central issue and the main reason for cash rationing and arrear accumulation.

                                                         22
allowed the Government to fully fund budget expenditures and to start settling arrears on utilities, and
these controls will be an important tool for managing expenditures appropriately as the financial crisis
unfolds further. The Government has also started presenting budget reports and consolidated financial
statements to the National Assembly’s June session. The new Budget Law brought forward the time for
budget submission to the National Assembly from October to June so as to allow more time for
deliberations on the overall budget strategy and for sector ministries and provinces to prepare detailed
budgets proposals and allocate them to spending units earlier in the budget year, thereby improving
budget planning and execution. Although for each of the last three years, the budget for the following
year has been approved by the National Assembly before the start of the fiscal year, the budget calendar
needs to be followed more rigorously and formal rules and ceilings need to be issued to guide the
annually budget process to provide realistic budget discussion between MOF and spending agencies.

60.      The PFMSP also supports the improvement of public financial management in time for the
coming on stream of the NT2 revenues. The Government has identified eligible expenditures in four
sectors: education, health, rural transport and environment against NT2 resources and the National
Assembly has approved the incremental allocation of 50 and 80 billion kips for these expenditures in the
FY2009/2010 and FY2010/2011 budget, respectively. Progress with putting in place the core systems to
manage NT2 revenues has been on-track. The Government has conducted a mid-term review of the
PFMSP implementation and hold consultations with development partners on immediate and medium
priorities of the PFM reform for the next five year. Based on the results of the consultation, the
Government is updating the Program Document and finalizing the program implementation schedule for
2011-2015. The Government has made efforts to improve the monitoring and evaluation framework
through the Public Expenditure Review (PER) and Public Expenditures Tracking Survey (PETS), and
international advisory services have been engaged to assist the Government improve the results
framework for PFMSP and work on the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability assessment has
completed, providing a baseline for assessment of progress in PFM reform during the course of the next
five year plan.

61.      Notwithstanding the progress achieved, some areas within the PFM reforms have
experienced delays due to technical capacity constraints, difficult institutional change management,
and the political context: (i) The development of the new intergovernmental fiscal transfer mechanism
has been slower than anticipated because of technical capacity constraints at MOF to devise the transfer
mechanism, significant institutional changes needed in establishing a transparent and rules based central-
local resource allocation framework to replace the established ad-hoc bargaining process, and political
support needed to transfer resource allocation powers from provinces to the center. However, the
Government has been moving in the right direction, with significant consultations with provinces and the
political establishment, and in this regard has managed to mandate minimum spending by provinces on
social sectors, agreeing to sharing rates for shared taxes, as well as MOF has developed a phased strategy
for implementing the budget norms. (ii) The legislative framework for public procurement has been
improved over the recent years through the passage of a new procurement decree, implementing rules and
regulations, a standard procurement manual and standard bidding documents. However, implementation
has been a challenge and immediate priorities are to ensure country-wide usage of the recently approved
standard procurement documents by all procuring agencies and strengthening their capacity through
establishment of an institutionalized procurement capacity building program, as well putting in
place a system for monitoring procurement performance and outcomes. (iii) Another area where limited
progress has been achieved is on developing sectoral medium term expenditure frameworks (MTEFs).
This seems to be due to a lack of implementation capacity, coordination between sectors and MOF, and
more fundamentally, the weak annual budget process. The ADB leads efforts on developing the MTEFs
over the medium term, while focusing immediate efforts on strengthening the medium term fiscal
framework to support annual budget process.


                                                   23
               Table 4: Public Expenditure in Priority Sectors and NT2 allocations
               Source: Of ficila Gazette, MOF.                2008      2009    2010
                                                                   Actual      Plan   Rev Plan
                                                                 2007/08    2008/09 2009/10
               Total 4 priority sectors:                           3,066      3,169   3,514
                 Current (recurrent)                                 812        978   1,152
                 Capital                                           2,254      2,192   2,362
                    Domestically-financed                            352        404     577
                    NT2 Allocations                                    0         50      80
                Agriculture                                          471        331     338
                 Current (recurrent)                                  79         96      99
                 Capital                                             392        235     239
                    Domestically-financed                             57         71      96
                    NT2 Allocations                                    0          0       9
                Infrastructure                                     1,236      1,116   1,255
                 Current (recurrent)                                  36         62      58
                 Capital                                           1,200      1,054   1,197
                    Domestically-financed                            228        255     356
                    NT2 Allocations                                    0         15      24
                Education                                          1,067      1,088   1,366
                 Current (recurrent)                                 547        629     773
                 Capital                                             520        460     594
                    Domestically-financed                             47         55      85
                    NT2 Allocations                                    0         18      24
                Health                                               293        635     555
                 Current (recurrent)                                 150        192     223
                 Capital                                             142        443     333
                    Domestically-financed                            122        409     288
                    NT2 Allocations                                    0         10       5
                 WREA                                                n/a        n/a     n/a
                    NT2 Allocations (to Environement)                  0          2       1
                 MEM                                                 252         76      68
                 Current (recurrent)                                  10         13      16
                 Capital                                             242         63      52
                    Domestically-financed                             24         30      23
                    NT2 Allocations (to Rural Electrification)         0          6      17


62.      Several steps were taken in the PRSP priority sectors (health, education, and
infrastructure). During PRSO1-6, the Government improved monitoring and timeliness of payment of
salaries to teachers and health workers. As a result, the allocation to these sectors increased significantly
(Table 4). In addition, it launched pilots of a school grants program and equity funds pilots for hospitals.
The Education Sector Development Framework (ESDF) has paved the way for implementing the aid
effectiveness agenda, leading to the approval of the Government application to access the EFA Fast-Track
Initiative Catalytic Fund, effective in August 2010. The Education Management Information System
(EMIS) has been set up to provide timely and reliable information about the results in the education sector
summarized in the Education Yearbook. The Ministry of Education (MOE) has also made arrangements
for nationwide distribution of textbooks and teachers guides for grades 5 for the academic year 2010/11
and the supplemental textbooks of all grades 1-5. A major reform of the education that has begun to be
introduced with the 2010-2011 school year starting in September 2010 is the 5-4-3 system of schooling
(5 years of primary, 4 years of lower secondary and 3 of upper secondary) throughout the country.

63.     In the health sector, there has been extensive work to strengthen the policy and strategic
framework to improve health outcomes in recent years. Specific initiatives include the development of
a Maternal, Neonatal, and Child Health Strategy and Action Plan; a Skilled Birth Attendance Plan; and a
Nutrition Strategy and Action Plan. Moreover, during PRSO6, the Ministry of Health (MOH) submitted
the Health Financing Strategy to the MOH Steering Committee for consideration after several rounds of

                                                      24
consultations. More recently, the Government has announced its intention to make key maternal and child
health services free, at least for the poor segments of the population, and to significantly increase
government spending on health. These decisions will impact on the process for finalizing the health
financing strategy (and the final content). Although recent developments in health sector policy and
strategy are significant, much remains to be done in terms of implementation. In infrastructure, revenues
from the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) established in 2002 have increased up from US$2 to US$30
million between 2002 and 2010, covering 60 percent of total need for the maintenance of national road
network. Nevertheless, the financing gap is still large for adequately maintaining provincial, district and
rural roads, more than 80 percent of road network remain unpaved and 30 percent of the network could
not pass all year round, and about 30 percent of the population is living in the areas with no all year round
road access. The new transport sector strategy aims at preserving the existing road network, improving
connectivity within the country and with the region, and also improving other means of transport
including railway, airway, and inland waterway to support poverty alleviation process and economic
growth. Improving transport will lower the cost of production input and transport cost for domestic
products and will also support cross-border trade. The strategy is the basis for aid effectiveness and sector
wide approach for the sector development. Rural electrification has shown steady progress, with 69
percent of households having access in 2009, against 44 percent in 2004. The Government has set targets
of having access to electrification of 80 percent by 2015 and 90 percent by 2020.

IV.     BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT’S PROGRAM

LINK TO CAS

64.         The PRSO program is an integral component of the CAS, supporting its pillars, achieving
the outcomes, and contributing to its risk management strategy. The CAS Progress Report discussed
in May 2007 includes a provision of US$10 million for each of the PRSO4-7 operations. Component 1 of
PRSO and its subcomponents support the first pillar of the Bank’s CAS objective – to sustain growth
through managing key growth drivers. Component 2 of PRSO and its subcomponents support the second
pillar of the CAS, especially where it concerns strengthening public financial management to improve the
social outcomes. PRSO also helps to manage risks identified in the CAS, especially those related to weak
implementation capacity and to fluctuating political environment. The second series of PRSOs continues
to contribute to the third pillar of the CAS by supporting the establishment and implementation of a
capacity building strategy and partnerships, through identifying capacity constraints in all sectors of
operation, addressing them through technical assistance (TA) and an extensive PRSO dialogue, and
through attracting strong partnerships under PRSO umbrella. The latter reflects the recent co-financing of
the PRSOs by the EC, Japan, and Australia.

65.       Preparations of a new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) are underway, in order to
align the Bank strategy with the new seventh NSEDP (2011-2015). It is still early to determine what
the focus will be, it is likely that it will stay the course with the directions established by the current CAS
and look at new opportunities presented by next five-year plan as well as changing global and regional
context.

RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS

66.     The PRSO program plays a focal role in supporting the policy reform dimensions of other
Bank operations, both ongoing and as envisaged in the CAS, and is in turn supported by other
Bank operations. The PRSO framework provides a platform for policy reforms that complement
interventions within other sectoral investment operations. Inter alia, this means that PRSO supports key
policy reforms that are then implemented with support from other Bank operations. Over time, a
satisfactory policy-based operation aims to provide IDA with convincing evidence that the country’s

                                                      25
policies and institutions are improving and thus allow more resources to be made available for both
sectoral investment operations and budget support.

67.    PRSOs are a critical element of the Bank’s support for NT2. The World Bank support for the
NT2 project was based on a decision framework with three key elements: (i) Lao PDR establishing and
implementing viable development policies, characterized by concrete performance, and national programs
for poverty reduction and social and environmental protection; (ii) sound technical, financial, economic
and implementation aspects of the proposed project, as well as the design and implementation of
safeguards policies; and (iii) wider understanding and broader support from the international donor
community and global and local civil society for Lao PDR's development framework and the proposed
project. The PRSOs support the implementation of development policies, and national programs for
poverty reduction and social and environmental protection, as referenced in the first element of the NT2
decision framework. The links to NT2 entail a high degree of scrutiny of the reform program, including
the PRSO program, through annual consultations with NT2 partners, the International Advisory Group
and ultimately through dissemination of information to the donor community and the wider public.

68.     Revenues from NT2 started accruing to the Government from April 2010, as the project
achieved commercial operations. Through September 2010, the end of the last Lao Government financial
year, the Government received 44.8 billion kips (equivalent to approximately US$5.4 million. The
revenues are being applied to specific projects for: (i) rural electrification - 6 billion; (ii) education -
17.5 billion; (iii) environment - 1.5 billion; (iv) public health - 10 billion; and (v) rural roads - 15 billion.
These revenues are being channeled through normal government budgeting and financial management
systems, which have been significantly strengthened to ensure appropriate planning, execution, and
monitoring of public finances - as part of the NT2 revenue management arrangements. In addition to
specifically assigning NT2 revenues to identified projects/programs, the Government has also been
reviewing the overall structure of budget to ensure more general government revenues are allocated to
social, productive, and environment protection expenditures. For the current fiscal year, NT2 revenues are
expected to amount to over kips 80 billion, equivalent to US$9.5 million. The Government is now in
process of implementing programs with these resources based on sector strategies and implementation
capacity.

69.     A key component of the series supports the Government’s program for improvement in
effectiveness in public expenditure management, as laid out in its Public Finance Management
Strengthening Program (PFMSP). The PFMSP inter alia supports the implementation of the NT2
revenues management arrangements which are aimed at providing additional resources in support of
poverty reduction and environmental protection programs, to be selected according to an agreed set of
eligibility criteria. The Financial Management Capacity Building Project (FMCBP) is designed to finance
technical assistance and capacity building needs to support the implementation of the Government’s
structural reform programs in public financial management, SOCB reform, SOE reform and enterprise
development. FMCBP has already been used to finance various PRSO-related activities, including
independent audits of SOEs and SOCBs under PRSO1-4; provision of TA for revising the chart of
accounts and realigning the budget nomenclature, training of staff, procurement of hardware to improve
management of state assets, and the recruitment of technical assistance under the PEMSP. The FMCBP
is supporting capacity strengthening at the SAO, in close coordination with on-going TA from ADB.

70.    AusAID, the EC, SIDA, and SDC have established a multi-donor trust fund managed by the
World Bank to support the implementation of the PFMSP. This MDTF is an important vehicle for
providing untied additional resources to the Government for implementation of the Public Financial
Management System Project (PFMSP), including support for implementation of the new Budget Law.
The MDTF also improves donor coordination and harmonization.


                                                       26
71.    The MOF and the World Bank are preparing a Public Finance Management Reform
Project which aims to deploy an integrated Treasury Information Management System at Treasury
Departments across the country and to continue the Bank’s support of the PFMSP implementation.
This proposed project, expected to be presented to the Executive Board in FY2012, builds on the support
provided by the FMCBP and the PFMSP MTDF towards modernization of the entire Government budget
management system from budget preparation, execution, accounting and reporting as well as
strengthening external audit and National Assembly’s oversight.

72.     The Trade Development Facility MDTF and the Lao Customs and Trade Facilitation Project
(LCTFP) both contribute to improving trade competitiveness. The customs project aims to facilitate
trade by improving the efficiency and effectiveness of customs administration. This will be achieved by
simplifying customs procedures, eliminating duplication and redundancy, reducing transaction costs and
time to clear goods, and increasing transparency and accountability. The project is built on the results of
AAA work including the DTIS and ICA and supports the reform agenda to sustain fast export-driven
growth in the medium- and long- term. The Trade Development Facility MDTF managed by the World
Bank, with contributions from EC and Australia, is also supporting this program and provides technical
assistance to improve competitiveness, business environment, standards, information technology for
border operations and inter-agency coordination, and implementation support for a sector-wide approach
in trade. Major reforms in trade facilitation and other trade-related areas are supported through the PRSO
program, Component 1.

73.     The Technical Assistance for Capacity Development in Hydropower and Mining Sector
Project provides a platform to increase human capacity and improve the performance of the
Government oversight institutions for the two sectors. It aims at building critically needed capacity
and generating public awareness across the hydropower and mining sectors. The provision of adequate
skills and training to government staff and the next generation of leaders for the two sectors would
remove critical bottlenecks to the development of both sectors. The hydropower component focuses on
capacity building in support of sustainable hydropower development in Lao PDR. Activities cover the
entire value chain, from planning, concessioning, construction, and operation to revenue management,
including facilitating the implementation of the National Policy on Sustainability of the Hydropower
Sector (NPSH). The mining component supports: (i) completion and dissemination of the new mining
legislation; (ii) development of a national mining development policy; (iii) preparation of a standard
mineral development agreement; and (iv) promotion of models for corporate social responsibility, risk
mitigation and community benefit-sharing approaches.

74.    The Lao Environmental and Social Project is supporting the development of the regulatory
framework for the hydropower sector, and in relation to other large development projects. Sub-grants to
support implementation of the National Policy on the Environmental and Social Sustainability of the
Hydropower Sector, including the strengthening of Environment and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA)
Practice and new ESIA regulation in Lao PDR.

LESSONS LEARNED

75.     The World Bank has a long track record in policy lending to the Lao PDR since 1989. For
the period of 1989 to 2001 however, the experience was uneven. The outcome of the first three Structural
Adjustment Credits (SAC)12 was rated by the Bank’s Operations Evaluation Department (OED) – now
renamed Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) – as unsatisfactory, mainly due to feeble Government
commitment to the reform program and weak implementation capacity. OED recommended that future
policy-based operations in the Lao PDR incorporate key lessons from these operations.

12
     The three operations are: SAC I (approved in 1989), SAC II (approved in 1991) and SAC III (approved in 1996).

                                                               27
76.     These lessons were taken into account in the design of the programmatic PRSO program
for the first series (PRSO1-3) and the current second programmatic series (PRSO4-7) as follows:

        Greater inter-ministerial coordination needs to be fostered. The Government has made special
         effort to institute and ensure inter-ministerial coordination through the PRSO Steering Committee
         and its Technical Secretariat, with representation from across ministries and frequent meetings to
         align implementation strategies and discuss cross-cutting issues. This process is led by MOF, and
         the operations processing schedule is determined by the ministry. In order to ensure appropriate
         coordination of monetary and fiscal policy during the financial crisis, the PRSO Steering
         Committee also includes the BOL Deputy Governor.

        Adequate and appropriate technical assistance and implementation support should be provided.
         In order to assist in effective implementation of the policy reforms, complementary technical
         assistance is being provided through the FMCBP and other resources such as the PHRD, the
         MDTF for PFMSP, the Trade Development Facility, and coordinated technical support by other
         development partners.

        Take into consideration capacity limitations. The PRSO program was designed as a
         programmatic series to take into account the need to manage reforms in a series of steps with
         focus on medium-term outcomes and monitorable impacts.

77.     These efforts have contributed to the successful implementation of the PRSO series. Inter-
ministerial agency coordination has been vastly improved through the PRSO process and related
dialogues, resulting in real ownership among agencies and ministries and efficiency in coordination. The
impact of technical assistance provision in selected areas has been clearly noted. 13 The PRSO program
was built upon the Government’s own poverty reduction strategy rather than on an externally imposed
framework.

78.      Capacity constraints remain, however. The Government’s ability to implement reforms may
have been overestimated during the design of the first programmatic series. Structural reforms during
transition from a planned to a market economy, such as SOE reform and banking sector reform, need to
be accompanied by several parallel processes before they can be implemented. These require building
understanding of the meaning of these reforms, and creating support blocks within the Government. This
suggests the following necessary sequence: improved monitoring, setting targets and monitoring
achievements of such targets, building incentives system to achieve targets within the public sector, and
finally implementable actions. Building capacity to perform in such complex reforms during this
sequence is key to success of these reforms.

79.      Other concerns about the coverage of PRSO had emerged from the implementation of the
first series. 14 They include: (i) recognizing benefits of greater focus; (ii) identifying and addressing
critical capacity constraints; (iii) fostering ownership by aligning reforms with national development
objectives; (iv) shifting the focus to outcomes; (v) maintaining flexibility in order to achieve these
outcomes; and (vi) aligning the Bank’s AAA work with PRSO objectives.




13
   For example the public financial management component has showed faster and more profound progress in comparison to
others areas that did not have or have little of such support, i.e., banking reform.
14
   The World Bank and the Government teams have taken stock of the lessons learned from the implementation of the first series
of operations, PRSOs 1-3, through the dialogue on them and during the retreat in Houayxay, Bokeo province.

                                                             28
80.       Based on these lessons, the following criteria for prior actions and actions have been
incorporated in the current second PRSO series. Acceptable prior actions should meet the following
criteria that are consistent with good practice on conditionality (see Box 2).
       (a) Reinforce ownership and be consistent with NSEDP/PRS and cover four years (PRSO4-7);
       (b) Not attempt to fully cover all NSEDP agendas; on the contrary, PRSOs shall help the
           Government to prioritize the reform agenda in NSEDP;
       (c) Be flexibly formulated and be leading to achievement of monitorable outcomes based on
           programmatic approach. Focus should be more on a four-year program deliverables rather than
           on particular year-by-year actions;
       (d) Be critical to the achievement of the series outcomes (growth, poverty reduction, and macro
           stability);
       (e) Have lasting effect in improving mechanisms and incentive systems; and
       (f) Be accompanied by TA on a principle of mutual accountability.

ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

81.     The analytical underpinnings the PRSO series were extensively reviewed in the Program
Document for the PRSO4.15 The review discussed the series of AAA completed and ongoing, including
the Budget Law Implementation Plan (2007), the first Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS, 2007),
a Public Expenditure Review and Integrated Fiduciary Assessment (PER-IFA 2007), Lao Financial Sector
Study (2006), Country Economic Memorandum (2004), a Poverty-Environment Nexus Study (2002), Lao
Poverty Assessment Country Procurement Assessment Review (2002), a Poverty Study (2002), a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (2002), and a Public Expenditure Review (2002), a Diagnostic
Trade Integration Study (DTIS); an Investment Climate Assessment (ICA-2007).

82.      The strategy underpinning the Bank’s AAA program is to identify and fill key knowledge-
gaps with an emphasis on joint work with the Government and other development agencies to bring about
a buy-in on the diagnosis from all stakeholders. The results of this AAA process were used to build
consensus on policy reform, sector investments, and harmonization of donor assistance in key areas.
These are reflected in the NSEDP as well as its implementation. Several of these studies have been
prepared in collaboration with other development partners including the IMF, ADB, UN, and EC, as well
as other agencies.

83.     The World Bank has been providing significant technical support to the Government for
implementation of the public finance management strengthening program and the NT2 Revenue
Management Arrangements (RMA). This support has permitted policy dialogue and close collaboration
on central-local fiscal relations and the revenue sharing framework as well as on revision of the chart of
accounts along with budget nomenclatures. This activity has been instrumental in ensuring appropriate
implementation support be provided to the Government on complex public finance management reforms.

84.      The Government and development partners conducted a PER in FY2009/FY2010, and
completed the first Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) Assessment. The
results from this analytical work provide further insight into the design of PRSO operations, including
focus on the fiduciary framework of the Government. The PER provides an assessment of progress on
the PFM reform program since 2004, including implementation of the NT2 RMA, intergovernmental
fiscal relations, and an overview of Financial Management reforms. It also considers the challenges and

15
     World Bank, Program Document for PRSO4, May 15, 2008, pp. 26-29.

                                                           29
priorities for the reform program looking ahead. The PEFA assessment presents a snapshot of the status
of the PFM system in Lao PDR and feeds into the Government’s PFMSP accordingly.

                    Box 2. Good Practice Principles on Conditionality Applied in Lao PDR
Principle 1: Reinforce Ownership
 Ownership of the PRSO series is reinforced through program design and participatory and transparent PRS
  process. Recent track record of Lao PDR indicates continued commitment and ownership of the program
  supported by PRSOs. The analytical work is being undertaken by the Government in close collaboration with
  development partners and is used in policy and decision making process.
 In order to adjust to a more realistic assessment of the political commitment to SOE and banking sector agenda,
  the focus of PRSO5 was shifted in direction of monitoring these sectors while still trying to push forward reforms.
Principle 2: Agree up front with the Government and other financial partners on a coordinated accountability
framework
 Under the PRSO series, there is an agreed accountability framework including a well-defined policy matrix for
  measuring progress under the program.
 This framework however is not yet harmonized across the donor community, but significant steps are being taken
  to improve aid coordination and harmonization across the board, reflected in signing the Vientiane declaration on
  aid effectiveness (by the Government and 22 development partners). Importantly, cooperation of the donor
  community behind the current PRSO4-7 series has intensified during PRSO7, including joint missions,
  monitoring and evaluation, and strategic planning for PRSO7.
Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country circumstances
 The modalities of the operation are meeting country needs and encourage public financial management reform.
  However, some adjustments need to be made in the future on the timing of reforms, particularly in sectors related
  to structural adjustment to a market economy, such as SOEs and the banking sector.
 Ownership of some sensitive policy reforms has been strong (like on trade and public financial management),
  however it was weaker on other issues (such as SOE reform and state-owned banks reform).
 The evidence amounts that policies supported under PRSOs reflect the Government’s expressed policy intentions
  and are aligned with the NSEDP.
Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement and support with
TA
 Prior actions and conditions chosen from the agreed accountability framework are focused on critical actions for
  achieving the objectives of the program. Country circumstances and advancement of structural reforms however
  dictate specific approach to achieving the objectives of the program.
 Ensure that corresponding technical assistance is identified up-front where development partners commit to
  providing assistance to implement the reforms, and mechanisms exist for reinforcing the principle of mutual
  accountability.
Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based financial
support
 The PRSO’s support is aligned with the budget cycle and is disbursed prior to the end of the Government’s fiscal
  year in September. Regular reviews are done through frequent assessment missions and Round Table Meetings
  (RTMs) and annual plan processes are incorporated into the routine monitoring of progress on actions and prior
  actions. Result focus of these reviews should however be strengthened in the future.
 For the proposed PRSO7, the size and coverage of the policy matrix has been set ensuring that the interventions
  are at the reform frontier, whilst ensuring that implementation capacity is there.
 It is hoped that for PRSO7, analytic work will be fed more upstream into the policy dialogue, building on the
  achievements of the analytical work during recent years that has been participatory and increasingly owned by the
  Government.
85.     The Pay and Compensation Review was concluded in June 2010. The key findings of the
review are that: (i) even though salaries of the civil servants are lower than the private sector, when
allowances, benefits, and per diems are factored in, civil servants are paid at about 65 to 75 percent of
comparators in the private sector; (ii) in rural areas there is a problem of retaining staff, so there is need to
think of career progression options to provide incentives to staff to serve for some time in rural and
underserved areas; and (iii) there is increasing proliferation of salary top-up practices by donors that is

                                                        30
causing warping of performance incentives in the civil service and it is thus critical for the Government to
determine what should be the appropriate policy on such top-ups, rather than leave this up to donors to
determine in an ad-hoc manner. It is estimated that per diem may account for as much as total salaries and
lead to incentives to travel in order to add to revenues. The Government has drafted a civil service reform
strategy that seeks to tackle some of these issues. Looking ahead the Bank will work with respective
government agencies to determine the policy reform action plan for implementation of this strategy.

86.      The upcoming AAA work will help to refine the design of subsequent operations. These
include Lao Poverty Notes looking at the causation and incidence of poverty, an updated investment
climate assessment (ICA-2011) which will inform the next round of support of private sector reform, and
the Lao Development Report (2011), which analyzes in depth the challenges and opportunities brought up
by the development of natural resource sector in Lao PDR Analytical work as part of the Trade
Development Facility will also feed in the next operations. Regular policy notes and small AAAs will
also contribute to the overall program and allow for mid-term corrections where needed, including
Environmental Monitors and Economic Monitors. A Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
(ROSC) has been finalized and an IDF grant is in place to fund the implementation of some of the key
recommendations. It provides findings and recommendations to strengthen enterprises’ accounting and
auditing practices, in order to foster the quality and reliability of enterprises’ financial reporting, thereby
contributing to improved business environment and investment climate in the country. The ROSC
addresses the systemic and governance requirements that are necessary for improved competitiveness in
world markets, an enhanced financial sector, and a strengthened enterprise accounting and auditing
practice in the country. It provides policy recommendations for necessary actions towards implementation
of international corporate accounting and auditing standards; strengthening the profession and improving
the capacity of professional bodies; introducing appropriate mechanisms for ensuring compliance with
enterprises accounting and auditing requirements; and developing arrangements for high quality
accounting and auditing education and training. Looking forward, there is the need for developing a
unified framework for accounting and auditing covering the private and public sector.

COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS

87.    Since April 2005, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has conducted an annual Article
IV consultation as well as prepared half-yearly macroeconomic assessment letters. The Bank and
IMF staff collaborate closely during these annual consultations in the context of the PRSO program. The
IMF’s last Article IV consultation was completed in June 2010. The next consultations activity is
scheduled for June 2011. Findings of the latest mission have been reflected in the Program Document.
The IMF will provide an assessment letter for PRSO7 by end-April 2011.

88.     PRSOs in Lao PDR are characterized by a framework of evolving partnership between the
Government and development partners, and have become an important new aid modality and a
vehicle for donor harmonization and policy coordination. During the preparation of PRSO1-5, and
the current PRSO7, discussions were held with major development partners including the IMF, EC,
Japan, and the ADB. For PRSO4-7, the matrix was appraised jointly by the three development partners
co-financing the program: Japan, EC, and Australia. The World Bank and donor team inform the donor
community on the progress with PRSOs and encourage other development partners’ participation.

89.      Australia, represented by AusAID, provides parallel financing to PRSO4-7 and is also
providing complementary TA support via two World Bank-managed MDTFs for the PFMSP and the
Trade Development Facility. Australia's estimated budget for PRSO7 is 2.5 million Australian dollars.
Australia has been actively participating in the PRSO series, as well as in the PFMSP and trade
development. Australia’s special focus is on ensuring that PFM reforms lead to enhanced resources for
social sectors, delivered in a timely manner to service delivery units, as well as in implementation of the

                                                      31
trade facilitation action plan. Australia is involved in the social sectors, especially in education, where it
is supporting the Government to implement its sector plan, the Education Sector Development
Framework, and corresponding annual prioritized and costed action plan. Australia is co-financing the
upcoming World Bank Technical Assistance Project for Capacity Development in Hydropower and
Mining sector. The Policy Action Matrix (Annex 2) incorporates AusAID’s focus areas.

90.      The EC’s participation in the joint PRSO7 focuses on the dialogue in the following sectors:
public finance management and civil service reform (i.e., pro-poor budgeting, control and transparency of
budget execution, external scrutiny of the budget, PEFA assessment), private sector development and
trade sectors (i.e., enabling business environment and investment, regional and international trade
integration, trade facilitation and macroeconomic stability) with a special attention to the education and
health sectors (i.e., budget allocation, sector management and service access). The Financing Agreement
with the Government to support the PRSO4-7 implementation of Euro 13 million was signed at end-2008.
It includes a Euro 3 million commitment to support PRSO7 achievements. The support comprises a fixed
tranche of Euro 2 million and a variable tranche of Euro 1 million which is subject to achievement of
three indicators targets that are assessed during the joint PRSO appraisal mission. The use of indicators to
measure the Government's performance in the health and education sectors was introduced in this four-
year agreement for PRSO5-7. The set of three indicators per sector for the variable tranche are
incorporated into the Policy Action Matrix (under both PRSO7 and indicators columns). A support of
Euro 3 million to PRSO4 was disbursed at the end of 2009. The PRSO5’s fixed tranche of Euro 2 million
was released in November 2010 whereas the conditions related to the variable tranche of Euro 1 million
were not met (fiscal indicators) preventing the EC to release the corresponding amount. The assessment
of the PRSO6’s fixed and variable tranches is currently being carrying out and will be completed upon
receipt of evidences and supporting documents to be provided by MOF. The EC is also providing
complementary TA support to enterprise development (i.e., SME program), to strengthening MOH and
MOE’s budget process, monitoring and evaluation frameworks and via the two MDTFs (PFMSP and the
Trade Development Facility).

91.     The Government of Japan has provided parallel financing to PRSOs through the scheme of
Japanese ODA loans. The Japanese Government agreed to provide a loan up to 1.5 billion yen as the
Budget Strengthening Support Loan using the same PRSO policy matrix in November, 2009. Japan also
provides some complementary TA supports via the JICA’s Technical Cooperation scheme for improving
public finance management and investment environment. Japan’s interests in policy dialogue lie in the
following areas. In Component 1 (Investment Climate, Competitiveness, and Business Development):
improving investment environment, including legislative consistency, institutional building and
simplification of procedures; promotion of trade and transport, including institutional building and human
resource development on custom and custom clearance and simplification of procedures; SOEs reform,
including preparation of restructuring plans; financial sustainability of the public electricity utility,
including settlement of arrears, preparation and implementation of action plans; and financial sector
reform, including improvement of the management of state-owned commercial banks. In Component 2:
Strengthening Public Finance Management; including management of the public investment program
(PIP), capacity building towards MOF officers through conducting trainings on treasury cash
management and public accounting and supporting to establish human resource development (HRD)
system by formulation of HRD strategy and its implementation plan. Japan’s interests also include
improving service delivery (Education and Health) as another important sector. These interests have been
included in the Policy Action Matrix, as reflected in Annex 2.

92.     Other development partners provide grants for technical assistance in support of policy
reforms and capacity building. The PRSO program has an ambitious agenda, and grant-based technical
assistance plays an important role. Several development partners have already provided this assistance.
JBIC financed consulting services to the Business Promotion Office (BPO) in the Prime Minister’s Office

                                                     32
(PMO) to support the development of SOE restructuring plans under the PRSO2 and PRSO4, and
provided similar support under PRSO5. The Government of Japan provided a PHRD grant for technical
assistance to the Lao PDR under PRSO3 and PRSO5. The EC, ADB and Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA) financed technical assistance to support the PRSO-linked PER and are
supporting the PEMSP. The PRSO process has involved close collaboration with many other donor-
supported initiatives — notably, the ADB’s work on banking reform (where ADB TA support PRSO7
prior action on banking supervision), GTZ (where GTZ TA supports PRSO7 prior action on
microfinance) and the UNDP’s work on governance and public administration reform.

V.      THE PROPOSED OPERATION

OPERATION DESCRIPTION

93.      The PRSO7 — which is jointly prepared by the Government and IDA and in collaboration
with co-financing development partners — is the fourth and last operation of the second PRSO
series (PRSO4-7) in support of the implementation of Lao PDR’s Poverty Reduction Strategy which
is articulated in the Sixth NSEDP. The PRSO7 assists the Government to continue cross-cutting reforms
in a consistent framework, while the financial support provided will contribute to reduce the gap between
the costs of implementing key elements of this strategy and the resources available from the
Government’s own revenues and other development partners’ support.

94.     The PRSO7 seeks to support policies that ensure sustained growth and improved revenue
mobilization in the medium term, thereby increasing resources available to be used for
implementing the poverty reduction strategy. PRSO7 focuses on two broad policy areas consistent
with the goals and strategies identified by the Government in its PRS, and reflected in the World Bank’s
CAS in the following way: (i) sustainable growth; and (ii) public resource and expenditure management.
Increased growth and improved management of public resources will ensure that additional resources are
available for implementing the poverty reduction strategy, and that these resources are deployed more
effectively and efficiently towards improving social outcomes. As programmatic budget support, the
PRSO program contributes to funding predictability, and the associated dialogue between the
Government and donors to ensure policy prioritization and donor coordination
95.     Building on the track record of the PRSO1-6 and increased implementation capacity,
PRSO7 focuses on implementation of the laws and institutional restructuring, while starting assessing
desired outcomes of the series. PRSO1-6 have put in place a strong platform for programmatic policy
reform, an appropriate legislative and institutional framework (especially in the public finance
management framework), strengthened capacity of the Government, and helped put in place a robust
foundation of these reforms. The collaboration between the Government and development partners has
also been significantly strengthened.

96.     At the Government’s request, the third series of PRSOs will build on the implementation of
the reforms undertaken in the second series while exploring new policy areas consistent with the
country’s new emerging development challenges such as achieving sustainable, diversified and
inclusive growth which is increasingly driven by natural resources exploitation. The consultation
process has commenced among the development partners and the Government who have identified and
discussed the broad reform areas to be supported under the next series. These include social sector
spending, macroeconomic and fiscal framework, management of natural resources, and investment
climate for economic diversification.




                                                   33
COMPONENT 1:               INVESTMENT CLIMATE, COMPETITIVENESS, AND BUSINESS
DEVELOPMENT

97.       Both the current and upcoming NSEDPs call for a high level of investment to achieve targeted
growth. The upcoming NSEDP calls for a level of total investment of 32 percent of GDP, out of which
23 percentage points are expected to be mobilized from the private sector, including FDI. It also
emphasizes the need to support SMEs development to create jobs and diversify economic growth.
Currently, the country enjoys similar volumes of investment (28 percent of GDP in 2008), but most of it
(80 percent) goes to the natural resource sector. Domestic private investment remains low. There is a need
to support private investment in other sectors, in order for Laos to sustain a balanced and job-creating
economic growth.

98.        The private sector faces significant constraints to doing business, including lack of access to
good infrastructure, cumbersome regulations and limited access to finance. The World Bank/ADB
Investment Climate Assessment concluded that the priorities in improving the investment climate on the
policy and institutional front should be to streamline regulations, improving access to formal sources of
finance, eliminating discretion in taxation, and improving regulations and processes specific to importing
and exporting goods.

99.        The prior actions and policy actions are designed to foster productive long-term
investment through an enabling environment for regional integration and private sector
development, based on findings of a range of AAA work done by the World Bank and other development
partners during the past several years, as described above. To support private sector development, the
programs focus on the following elements: (i) creating an enabling business environment and attracting
quality investment in the non-resource and natural resource sector (hydropower and mining); (ii) reducing
trade barriers and proceeding with implementation of international and regional agreements;
(iii) improving performance and monitoring and SOEs; and (iv) enhancing the commercialization and
transparency of SOCBs.

100.      First, PRSO4-7 contribute to creating and sustaining an enabling business environment
and attracting quality investment in the non-resource (general) and resource private sector. In the
non-resource private sector, the series specifically supports the formulation and implementation of the
Enterprise and Investment Laws. The series has also supports reforms that clarify the legal framework
under which Special Economic Zones operate. The Enterprise Law, supported by PRSO4 and PRSO5, has
successfully introduced simplified enterprise registration procedures. The investment law, supported by
PRSO6, proposes among other measures to abolish lengthy and cumbersome licensing procedures for
both domestic and foreign investors seeking to make investment outside a Negative List, which could
before take 3 to 5 months for approval.16 The new investment law also levels the playing field between
foreign and domestic investors by harmonizing the investment incentives regime.

        The expected outcomes which PRSO4-7 directly influence are the simplification of regulations
         for business entry. The number of days to start a business for manufacturing sector has decreased
         from 183 (163) in 2006 to 145 (100) in 2009 [staff estimate (doing business)] and is expected to
         drop by another 60 days following the full implementation of the investment law.

101.      In the resource sector, the PRSO series support the development of a regulatory
framework which attracts quality and responsible investments. The PRSO series specifically
supports:

16
  A negative list approach requires that discriminatory measures affecting all included sectors be liberalized unless
specific measures are set out in the list of reservations (the negative list).

                                                        34
       The implementation of the Minerals Law (PRSO7 prior action #1). The Minerals Law
        addresses some of the key issues facing the industry, including introduction of more transparency
        and predictability in granting exploration and mining licenses to investors, clearer regulations
        regarding operations, transfer of mining rights and clarification of the Government’s equity rights
        in mining projects. The World Bank-AusAID technical assistance project supports sector
        agencies prepare the first stages of the listed actions as well as sector promotion, while the PRSO
        supports the key policy and institutional aspects of the reforms.

       The implementation of the National Policy on Environmental and Social Sustainability of
        the Hydropower Sector (NPSH). Specifically, it supports the strengthening of environmental
        and social impact assessment process through the issuing of PM’s decree 112 as well as the
        public disclosure of report on the implementation of the policy to date. The EIA Decree
        represents a significant strengthening of the environmental impact assessment process by
        replacing ministerial regulations with a Decree issued by the Prime Minister, and clarifying the
        range of procedures and responsibilities involved. It also provides for a grievance process, in line
        with the NPSH. Following the issuing of the new decree, the series will support the updating of
        the policy, as well as the development of an action plan to guide its implementation. These
        actions are supported by the Technical Assistance for Capacity Building in the Hydropower and
        Mining Sectors Project, as well as the Lao Environment and Social Project.

102.        Second, the PRSO series supports government efforts to reduce trade barriers and
proceed with implementation of international and regional agreements. It supports reforms to trade
facilitation legislation and procedures in order to support increased private sector investment, streamlined
cross-border trade, and the introduction of a more transparent rules-based system compliant with the
WTO principles. The specific actions that the series has been supporting are:

       Developing relevant implementing regulations and guidelines of the Customs Law; developing
        and implementing a national trade facilitation action plan to promote simplification,
        harmonization, transparency and automation in customs and other border procedures;
        implementing customs modernization through the adoption of a new single administrative
        document and streamlining customs procedures; preparing for the introduction of the national
        single window; increasing compatibility with ASEAN and WTO standards. On the latter, three
        key pieces of trade facilitation legislation need to be revised and are supported by the PRSO
        series: (i) PM Decree on Import Licensing (successfully revised as a completed policy action
        under PRSO5); (ii) PM Decree on Rules-of-Origin (successfully revised as a completed prior
        action under PRSO6); and (iii) PM Decree on Import-Export Management (PRSO7 prior action
        #2). Revisions to this third piece of legislation will introduce the principles of non-discriminatory
        trading rights (or “national treatment”) and “most favored nation” into Lao law, by ensuring that
        imported, transit and locally produced goods are treated equally. It is an essential part of bringing
        the Lao legal framework for trade in line with the principles of the WTO Agreement, and as such
        this reform is a requirement for the Lao WTO Working Party negotiations. Thus PRSO7 supports
        the formulation and approval of a new PM Decree on the Import and Exports of Goods, to replace
        the current PM Decree on Import-Export Management. The approval of this third decree will
        bring Lao PDR to a point where trade facilitation legislation is substantially in compliance with
        WTO requirements.

       The expected outcomes which PRSO4-7 intend to directly influence are cross border
        streamlining of procedures. The numbers of days to export and import have decreased from
        respectively 66 and 78 to 50 and 50 are is expected to decrease further by the end of the series.



                                                    35
103.      Third, PRSO4-7 contribute to improve the performance and monitoring of SOEs and
support the SOE restructuring process. It assists the Government’s effort in improving SOE efficiency,
strengthening the Government’s capacity to monitor them, improving the regulatory environment in
which they operate, and develop and implement a strategic plan for reform including corporatization of
key SOEs. In order to make significant progress in SOE reform, it is essential to adopt far-reaching policy
decisions to improve performance of the SOE sector through defining strategic and non-strategic SOEs;
withdrawing from non-strategic ones; clarifying the role of NCBD; corporatizing strategic SOEs;
strengthening state-assets value management; and enhancing shareholder functions of the MOF.

104.     Specific actions that the PRSO series supports includes:

        NCBD under the PMO conducted independent financial audits for FY2005 and FY2006 for
         4 Phase II SOEs and 3 Phase I SOEs;17 (ii) NCBD is developing restructuring plans for Phase II
         and III SOEs 18 The main reasons for the delay in completing the restructuring plans for both
         Phase II and Phase III SOEs are lengthy processes for recruiting international consulting firms
         and poor financial information of the SOEs.

        The sustainable settlement of electricity arrears between government agencies and EDL and the
         setting up of a system that would preclude future arrears, including compliance with Power
         Sector Action Plan. In the past, major arrears from the Government budget have built up to the
         utilities (PRSO7 prior action #3).

105.      The expected outcomes which PRSO4-7 intend to directly influence are greater
transparency and commercial viability of major SOEs being restructured, and to reduce their
financial losses. The ratio of losses over profits in the SOE sector has declined from 4.8 percent in 2006
to 0.001 percent in 2008. Government electricity arrears have declined, from kip 133 billion in 2004/05 to
kip 34.5 billion in 2008/09, these arrears are expected be fully settled by 2011. Supporting a responsibility
framework to ensure no new arrears accumulation will be the focus of the PRSO7 operation.

106.       Fourth, PRSO4-7 series seek to improve the depth and outreach of the financial sector by:
(i) taking an integrated approach to financial sector reform through developing and implementing a
comprehensive financial sector strategy; (ii) enhancing banking supervision and regulation by
strengthening SOCBs supervision, which account for 60 percent of total banking sector assets; and
(iii) developing sustainable microfinance regulatory and institutional framework. The specific actions
which PRSO7 supports is the implementation of the Financial Sector Strategy action plan, including:
(i) the strengthening of BOL supervisory functions with support from ADB TA (PRSO7 Prior
action #4); and (ii) the formulation of the Microfinance Decree with support from GTZ (PRSO7 prior
action #5).



17
   Analysis of available financial information indicated that 7 out of 12 SOEs under restructuring generated profits
during 2006, with the profit margin ranging from 0.68 – 16.95 percent of total sales. Key findings of the
independent audits include: (i) weak control over fixed assets, cash, purchases, trade and other payables; (ii) absence
or inadequate documentary support for the cost and revaluation of fixed assets, and trade payables; (iii) lack of
comprehensive accounting policies and procedural manuals; lack of proper budget plans and projected cash flow;
and (iv) some of the audited SOEs had negative equity and high liquidity risk.
18
   SOE restructuring is divided into 3 phases: Phase I started in 2004 and consists of 4 large SOEs (BPKP, Lao
Airline, Nam PaPa Nakhoneluang and Pharmaceutical Factory No.3 (PF3)); Phase II started in 2005 of 4 medium
SOEs (Agriculture Industry Development Import-Export State Owned Enterprise, Lao State Fuel Company, Societe
Lao Import-Export, and Road Construction Company); and Phase III started in 2006 for 5 SOEs (DAFI, LXP,
LVSVT and LVKK).

                                                         36
107.      The expected outcomes which the series seeks to directly influence is a better performing
banking sector, with declining non-performing loans. Non-performing loans declined from
10.5 percent in 2006 to 3 percent at the end of 2009.

COMPONENT 2: PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT AND IMPROVING SERVICE
DELIVERY

Public Finance Management
108.        The PFM component of the PRSO4-7 focuses on key cross-cutting PFM reforms, and
balances policy reforms momentum with implementation capacity. The thrust of the PFM reforms
continues on deepening them whilst focusing on implementation of policy reforms undertaken by the
Government to strengthen the central-local fiscal framework, improving budget planning and
execution, implementation of the legislative acts adopted under PRSO1-5, and focus on improving
service delivery in health and education.

109.  First, the PRSO4-7 support the improvement of the credibility of budget planning and
enhancement of transparency and comprehensiveness of budget reporting by:

      Strengthening and regular updating of the PFMSP. The PFMSP comprehensively lays out the
       PFM agenda, including the implementation of the NT2 RMAs, where the Bank is providing
       significant staff time support and financial resources. In this regard the Bank and development
       partners have established a MDTF to support PFMSP implementation.

      Clarification of central-local relations and respective responsibilities related to revenue-
       sharing, expenditure assignment, and service delivery. Since the promulgation of the Budget
       Law 2007, the Government has been taking steps towards making the budget allocation system
       more transparent and rules based. In this regard, the MOF’s Budget Department has been leading
       the work on developing a new revenue sharing model and a system of budget norms for the
       education and health sectors. Since FY2008/09 the Government has managed to mandate
       minimum spending on the health and education sectors by province. Additionally, the revenue
       sharing model has been developed, widely consulted within the Government and with the
       National Assembly’s Economy, Planning and Finance Committee. The methodology has been
       endorsed in principle by the Government. It is expected that the revenue sharing formula will be
       implemented together with the budget allocation norms starting from FY2010/11. MOF is also
       working on the implementation of the budget norms from FY2010/11. This work entails:
       (i) clarification and completion of expenditure assignments between central and local government
       levels in the education sector; (ii) development and issuance of a decision on expenditure
       assignment in the health sector covering all four aspects of the assignment, namely
       responsibilities for: (a) actually producing the service; (b) providing or administering the service;
       (c) financing the service; and (d) setting standards, regulations or policies guiding the provision
       of government health service; and (iii) data and scenario analysis for the introduction of budget
       allocation norms for education and health and an “all other categories of expenditure” for budget
       formulation and for design of an equalization grant for less well-off provinces.

      Timely publication of budgetary information with increasing coverage and improving
       classification. The intention is to ensure that there is enhanced dissemination of timely
       information on budget execution and plans. The specific supported actions are the timely
       publication of planned and actual budgets and in-year budget execution reports with increasing
       coverage. The MOF has implemented an up-graded GFIS from October, 1, 2009 with a new
       common chart of accounts and centralized system architecture. Once the system is stabilizes and

                                                   37
       all payment vouchers and revenue receipts are processed through the GFIS, the GFIS will be able
       to provide report on budget execution on a real-time basis.

110.    Second, the PRSO4-7 support the improvement of the transparency of intergovernmental
fiscal relations and faster budget execution, through the implementation of the Budget Law,
centralization of treasury, customs and tax functions, debt management strengthening and
Procurement capacity and transparency strengthening. Specific policy measures are:

      MOF adopted and commenced implementation of the Treasury Single Account framework,
       by consolidating all revenue accounts into Treasury-managed accounts. Since the
       promulgation of the Budget Law in 2007, the Government has put in place the necessary
       legislative framework for centralizing the Treasury Department, including transferring the control
       of bank accounts from ministries and provincial finance departments to MOF, within a Treasury
       Single Account framework. The implementation of this policy has been progressing steadily. To
       date, MOF has managed to gain control over all provincial treasury accounts, extra-budgetary
       funds like the road fund, and bank accounts of line ministries. Revenues collected by the tax and
       customs departments are deposited into these bank accounts. Approximately 80 percent of total
       public finances flow through these accounts. The remaining 20 percent represent bank accounts
       held by spending agencies collecting technical revenues. While this is already a major
       achievement in terms of establishing centralized control and oversight over public monies, the
       MOF is taking further steps to bring them into the budget.

      Under PRSO7, the MOF will expand the budget coverage through consolidating technical
       revenue into the Treasury. To this end, the MOF in collaboration with BOL has completed an
       inventory of spending unit accounts that are being held in the banking system. Following
       classification of the surveyed accounts, a decision has been made to transfer about 2,500 accounts
       from the commercial banks to the National Treasury. The National Treasury has developed a
       detailed transfer program that will be implemented in six phases. The initial phase will involve
       five agencies: Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of Education,
       Ministry of Agriculture and National University. It is expected that the transfer process will take
       time to be fully completed to allow for the National Treasury to build its capacities to handle
       increased volumes of transactions. To improve cash management, treasury zero-balance accounts
       will be introduced at the BOL Headquarters and its branches.

      Debt management strengthening. The main objectives are: (i) to strengthen the debt recording
       and reporting capabilities of the debt management unit of the External Finance Department, by
       putting in place an external debt recording systems with formats consistent with international
       standards; and (ii) to increase the strategic management of debt and improve capacity to identify
       appropriate sources of financing for the Government’s medium-term development plans.

      Procurement capacity and transparency strengthening. The main objective is to ensure
       effective implementation of the public procurement legislation through strengthened monitoring
       and evaluation of performance and outcomes, increased access to procurement information and
       improved procurement capacities. The specific measures include effective use of the standard
       bidding procurement, operationalization of the procurement website, development and
       implementation of an institutionalized capacity building program, and establishment of a system
       for monitoring and reporting procurement performance. Besides the enactment of the improved
       procurement legislation in 2004 and finalization of standard bidding documents and standard
       procurement documents in 2009, progress on implementation of the improved procurement
       framework has been slow. The main constraint has been the prevailing weak capacity of the
       Procurement Monitoring Office (PrMO) of MOF which has still not been provided the staffing

                                                  38
        and resources set out in its 2005 Charter to enable it to carry out its functions effectively. Another
        reason is that high level government attention to procurement reform would bring the much
        needed support which is required for PrMO to perform its monitoring role and exercise the
        legislated authority vested in it under the Procurement Sub-decree and Implementing Rules and
        Regulations. There has recently also been a hesitated delay in engaging international consultants
        to assist with procurement reform activities that require specialized expertise which are not
        readily available in the country.

111.     Third, the PRSO7 supports the SAO in implementing the action plan for capacity
strengthening which was approved as part of PRSO5. A peer review of the SAO was completed by the
New Zealand Supreme Audit Institution. Based on the recommendations of the peer review the SAO
prepared an Action Plan for the period 2009-2020 for strengthening capacity, and improving the quality
and timeliness of financial audits. The Action Plan’s activities for FY2010/11 include: (i) the conduct of
the NT2 revenue audit in accordance with International Standards on Audit, (ii) development of a
strengthening professionalism strategy and implementation plan (audit methodology, professional
development, code of ethics etc); (iii) development of a work force development strategy and
implementation plan (human resource capacity development in terms of technical, managerial and soft
skills based on the competencies required for each staff level); and (iv) development of an ICT strategy
and implementation plan. All these are key elements for sustainable capacity development which will take
a number of years to achieve. In order to ensure that capacity building support is provided in a consistent
and coherent manner, the PRSO program is supporting the implementation of the Action Plan and the
associated Action Plan Implementation Program 2010-2013. As a result of this support, the SAO has
published a summary report on the findings from its audit of the budget execution report for FY 2008/09
(PRSO7 prior action #6).

112.     The World Bank, EC, ADB and other development partners will provide support to the SAO for
this Implementation Program, with the aim of improving the quality and timeliness of financial audits in
the first instance, and developing capacity for conducting performance audits in the future. Improving
financial audit is also a key aspect of the NT2 RMA. It is planned that an updated peer review will be
completed in 2012/13 to measure progress achieved.

113.     The expected outcomes which PRSO4-7 intend to directly influence are the credibility of the
budget; comprehensiveness and transparency predictability in budget execution; timeliness and
quality of budget execution report; and scope, nature and follow up of external audit. For
monitoring and assessment of progress, 7 PEFA indicators (PI-1, PI-6, PI-8, PI-10, PI-16, PI-24 and PI-
26) have been selected and for them baselines and targets have been jointly assessed and agreed with the
Government as part of the 2010 PEFA assessment and endorsed by the development partners. Policy
actions and prior actions implemented by this series directly contribute to the improved performance in
the selected elements of the PFM system. For example, the implementation of the budget law and
centralization of treasury, custom and tax administration functions allow the central government to take
control of the major sources of revenue collection, making cash more timely available to the National
Treasury to meet the expenditure needs of the spending units. As a result, the budget would become more
credible. The work on clarifying the expenditure assignment, and development and application of the
budget allocation norms would improve the transparency of intergovernmental fiscal relations. Given
variations in complexity and status of the reform in different elements of the PFM system, the progress
measured by improvement in the scores of PEFA high-level indicators is expected to be uneven among
them. In some areas such as external audit where the reform program has just recently been launched,
improvement in the scoring of the performance indicator may take some years. Where possible, sub-
dimensions of the indicators are used to monitor and assess progress as per the table below.



                                                     39
        Table 5: Monitoring Indicators for Public Finance Management Component of PRSO4-7

   PEFA                                                                                                                 Target
                                                                                              Baseline*
Performance                                                                                                             (2011)
                                      Description of the Indicator                             (2007)       2009**
 Indicator
    (PI)
    PI-1        Aggregate expenditure out-turn compared to original approved budget                C             B          B

   PI-6         Comprehensiveness of information included in budget documentation                   B           B           A
   PI-8         Transparency of Inter-Governmental Fiscal Relations                                 D           D          D+
   PI-10        Public Access to key fiscal information                                             C           C            B
   PI-16        Predictability in the availability of funds for commitment of                       B           B           B+
                expenditures                                                                  (i) B           (i) B        (i)B
                                                                                              (ii) B          (ii)B       (ii)A
                                                                                              (iii) B         (iii)B      (iii)B
   PI-24        Quality and timeliness of in-year budget reports                                   C+          C+          C+
                                                                                                  (i) C     (i)C       (i)C
                                                                                                  (ii) B    (ii)A      (ii)A
                                                                                                 (iii) C    (iii)C     (iii)B

   PI-26        Scope, nature and follow-up of external audit                                      D             D+    D+
  Note: * Baselines are joint MOF’s and Bank Staff retroactive assessment; ** Results of 2010 PEFA assessment.

  Improving Service Delivery
  114.     The specific actions that the PRSO4-7 support to improve service delivery are: (i) the design and
  implementation of a civil service reform strategy, education strategy, and health strategy; (ii) the
  production through information systems and publication of health and education service delivery data;
  and (iii) strengthening budget planning at the service delivery unit level.

  Civil service

  115.     The Government is developing a civil service reform strategy that will discuss issues aimed
  at strengthening delivery of public services.19 In addition, the Public Administration and Civil Service
  Authority (PACSA) has revised the Decree on benefits for officials working in remote areas. This decree
  aims at incentivizing civil servants to move to underserved rural areas by providing additional benefits to
  those posted to rural areas (additional cash benefits, housing, clothing, travel benefits, possibility of
  accelerated promotion). The PRSO series supports these two set of actions. The Government is expected
  to approve the civil service reform strategy in 2010-11. The PRSO7 aims to support policy critical aspects
  of the approved strategy, in order to ensure improvement in performance of the civil service.




  19
     The Public Administration and Civil Service Authority (PACSA) presented a draft Civil Service Management
  Strategy (CSMS) to the Government in November 2009. The overall objective of the CSMS is to institute processes
  for improving civil service human resource management and development in order to support the GOL’s socio-
  economic development goals through high public service delivery standards. A supporting goal is the building of a
  modern civil service in line with regional and international benchmark models and practices. The nine identified
  strategic reform areas over the period 2010-2020 are : (i) Improvements in human resources (HR) policies and
  regulation; (ii) HR planning; (iii) Salary reform; (iv) Performance management; (v) HR development; (vi) Service,
  information and communication technology (ICT) and e-Governance; (vii) Gender, equity and equal opportunities;
  (viii) Occupational safety and health; and (ix) International and regional cooperation.

                                                              40
Education

116.    Lao PDR has seen substantial growth in primary and secondary enrollment in the last
10 years. Recent data indicate that net primary school enrollment now stands at around 83 percent.
Improvements in net enrollment in recent years have to a significant degree been driven by growth in
female enrollment. Notwithstanding these achievements, enrollment is often late, a low proportion of
students complete the full cycle of primary and secondary school, repetition rates remain high, and there
are concerns about the quality of education. Moreover, the poorest districts in Lao PDR are experiencing
systematic disadvantages in a range of educational indicators. While public expenditure on education has
recovered from the financial crisis of the late 1990s, the level of spending remains low and heavily reliant
on external financing.

117.     The Government’s education policy focuses on primary education and is set out in the
NGPES, the NSEDP, and the Education Sector Development Framework. The Government has
established the achievement of universal primary education by 2015 as a primary goal, with reductions in
gender and geographic disparities in access, improvements in the quality and relevance of education, and
improved education management as key strategies for achieving this goal. While the policy framework
for the education sector emphasizes primary education, it also establishes priorities in lower secondary
education, non-formal and adult education, teacher training, upper secondary, preschool, tertiary
education, and technical education and vocational training. Taken together, the Government’s policy
priorities in education signify a substantial financing gap relative to current financing levels.

118.  The actions in the education sector envisioned under PRSO4-7 aim to create conditions for
improved strategic prioritization in the allocation of resources and more effective performance
management. The PRSO actions include the following:

        Identify strategic direction and resource requirements. The completion of the Education for
         All Mid-Decade Assessment (EFA MDA) — in the context of the Education Sector Development
         Framework (ESDF) — provides an opportunity for MOE to take stock of achievements and
         challenges in the sector and to identify future strategic direction and resource needs. In addition,
         MOE is preparing an annual sector plan that reflects the priorities of the ESDF.

        Ensure that strategic priorities are reflected in the annual budget process (and eventual
         budget allocations), and that key components of recurrent spending are increasingly financed
         from domestic sources, including through introducing school grants allocation.

        Improve the comprehensiveness and reliability of education information and integrate it
         into the planning and budgeting process. A second set of actions focus on the Education
         Management Information System (EMIS) and publication of Yearbooks. Improvement of the
         EMIS is a fundamental step to improve performance monitoring and management in the sector,
         and one of the requirements for the MOE to have access to NT2 revenues from FY2009/10.

119.       The expected outcome which PRSO4-7 intend to directly influence is an improved
management of allocation and monitoring of education expenditures, with increased allocation of
recurrent spending to education, and increased EMIS coverage.

Health

120.      Health outcomes in Lao PDR are improving, but significant challenges remain. According
to available data, under-five mortality fell from 170 per 1,000 live births in 1995 to 98 in 2005,
suggesting that Lao PDR is on track to meet the MDG target related to child mortality. However,

                                                     41
   important health challenges remain. Mortality and morbidity remain very high, especially among the
   rural population. At least in part, this reflects low levels of utilization of health services (including of key
   preventive services such as immunization). Financial barriers and a lack of qualified personnel in rural
   and remote areas comprise key constraints to increasing utilization.
   121.      The Government’s policy framework for the health sector emphasizes equity and
   improved access to primary care. NSEDP endorses the MDGs, establishing improved health outcomes
   and enhanced equity in access to basic curative and preventive health services (in terms of gender,
   economic situation, religion, ethnicity, and geography) as key goals for the sector. The Plan recognizes
   that a growing reliance on external financing and user fees entails risks in terms of sustainability and
   equity. NSEDP calls for increased government spending, but also for more diversified health financing
   arrangements, including piloting and expansion of, inter alia, compulsory health insurance, equity funds,
   and community based health insurance. The NSEDP also emphasizes the need to strengthen human
   resource management and target attention to priority districts. These goals and priorities resonate well
   with the CAS outcomes, which concern government spending on health and access to health services.
   122.       The PRSO4-7 support the Government’s policy framework by focusing on key constraints
   to improving the performance of the health system. A first set of actions focus on health financing
   arrangements, including the establishment of a forum and process for developing a health financing
   strategy; piloting of equity funds to promote access for the poor; routine monitoring of key performance
   indicators in the main health financing schemes; and strengthened evaluation of health financing reforms
   to support policy making. These actions are expected to contribute to a consensus among key
   stakeholders about the merits and demerits of different health financing reform options, and, in the longer
   term, to a health financing system that effectively promotes equitable access and financial protection. A
   second set of actions focus on the Health Management Information System (HMIS), with the aim of
   establishing an institutionalized process for routine reporting on key health indicators by 2011, by the
   publication of the first National Health Statistics Report (PRSO7 prior action #7).
   123.      The expected outcomes which PRSO4-7 intend to directly influence is an improved access
   to health care and health financial protection and an improved management and monitoring of health
   expenditures with increased allocation of recurrent spending to health and an increased HMIS coverage.

   124.       The Table below summarizes the prior actions and rationale for PRSO7:

                              Table 6: Summary of Achieved PRSO7 Prior Actions
PRIOR ACTION 1: Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM) submits for approval to the Prime Minister Office a
draft decree on the implementation of the Minerals Law (reformulated).
Status: achieved - The MEM submitted for approval to the Prime Minister Office a draft Decree on the Implementation of
the Minerals Law on April 11, 2011.
Previous formulation: "Government approves implementing decree of Minerals law, and issues regulations on (i) concession
management, (ii) mineral trading, and (iii) safety and environmental standards”.
Rationale for reformulation: there are high ambitions of adopting up to 39 pieces of legislation following the adoption of the
Minerals Law. The most critical piece of legislation is the implementing decree. Reason for reformulation is therefore to
keep the prior action focused on the most critical element, as well as to reflect the timing of approval which goes beyond the
PRSO7 time table. In addition, some regulations such as on concessions management are contemplating a similar timetable.
Rationale: The Minerals Law lays the foundations for the mining sector long term sustainable development. In order to
implement the new law, more detailed implementing regulations are required. In this regard, the MEM plans to prepare a
PM Decree for implementation of the new Minerals Law and a set of 39 regulations. With the approval of the Implementing
Decree and subsequent detailed regulation, MEM will achieve a clear delegation of roles and responsibilities.




                                                            42
PRIOR ACTION 2: Cabinet approves the Decree on Import and Export of Goods (reformulated).
Status: achieved - The Cabinet approved the Decree on the Import and Export of Goods on January 22, 2011.
Previous formulation: Government approves PM Decree on Import-Export management and MOIC issues implementing
regulations on this decree
Rationale for reformulation: The wording of the prior action has been modified for two reasons. Firstly, while the legislation
which this new Decree is intended to replace refers to "Import-Export Management", the new Decree will be titled "Import
and Export of Goods" to better reflect efforts by the Government to move towards a transparent and open regulatory regime
for trade. Secondly, a new set of implementing regulations are no longer required to support the introduction of the new
Decree as the implementing regulations for the PM Decree on Import Licensing (issued by the MOIC Minister in October
2009) already make reference to the Import-Export Management Decree and its successor legislation.
Rationale: The new Decree will introduce the principles of non-discriminatory trading rights (or “national treatment”) and
“most favored nation” into Lao law, by ensuring that imported, transit and locally produced goods are treated equally. It is
an essential part of bringing the Lao legal framework for trade in line with the principles of the WTO Agreement, and as
such this reform is a requirement for the Lao WTO Working Party negotiations.
PRIOR ACTION 3: MOF and EDL fully settle arrears of the Government entities to EDL up to September 2010 in
FY2010/11; MOF provides adequate budgetary allocation for current electricity consumption for FY 2010/11; MOF
and EDL agree on a sustainable mechanism for electricity bill payment to ensure no new arrears are accumulated.
Status: achieved - On April 21, 2011, the MOF confirmed in the PRSO7 Letter of Development Policy dated April 21,
2011 that it fully settled arrears of government agencies to EDL up to September 2010 in FY2010/11; provided adequate
budgetary allocations to government agencies for current electricity consumption for FY2010/11; and agreed with EDL on a
sustainable mechanism for electricity bill payment to ensure no new arrears are accumulated.
Rationale: To ensure that no new arrears are accumulated, a sustainable mechanism for electricity consumption and
payment by government agencies was discussed. It may involve three elements: (i) improving the way recurrent cost for
electricity is budgeted by agencies and consolidated by MOF, to reflect expected actual consumption; and (ii) implementing
efficiency measures (no-cost) endorsed by government and which MEM and EDL are working on; (ii) an effective
monitoring mechanism of electricity consumption by agencies over time. By MOF’s Decision No. 1760 of July 30, 2010
(on file) a Committee led by Mme Viengthong (Vice Minister for Finance) and comprises of DG Budget, DG Treasury and
EDL Director have been established to oversee this issue. Under this Committee, there are two sub-committees: (i) on
reconciliation of data: and (ii) on preventive measures for arrears occurrence.
PRIOR ACTION 4: BOL reviews and update BOL prudential rules for banking sector supervision (reformulated).
Status: achieved – The BOL reviewed and updated the Prudential Rules for Banking Sector Supervision by inter alia
approving (a) the regulation of net open asset position (regulation No. 818/BOL), approved by the BOL Governor on
October 20, 2010; and (b) the regulation on loan classification (regulation No. 324/BOL), approved by the BOL Governor
on April 19, 2011.
Previous formulation: BOL implements a set of actions as part of the Financial Sector Strategy Action Plan.
Rationale for reformulation: At the time PRSO6 was concluded, more time was needed to clarify which actions would be
supported by PRSO as part of the BOL implementation of the Action Plan of the Financial Sector Strategy. BOL has
proposed since then 2 actions, one on microfinance decree and one on revision of banking sector prudential rules. These 2
actions become the 2 new prior actions. To reduce the number of actions and prior action on the banking sector, the former
prior action on semi-evaluation reports and the policy action related to the semi-examination report of the APB, both
repeaters from PRSO6, have been taken out.
Rationale: this action is intended to review and update the existing prudential ratios applying to commercial banks in
accordance with Basel principles. It is proposed in particular to review the net open position (NOP) and loan classification
regulations.
PRIOR ACTION 5: The BOL submits the Microfinance Decree for Government’s approval (reformulated).
Status: achieved - The BOL submitted for approval to the PMO a draft Decree on Microfinance on April 8, 2011.
Previous formulation: BOL completes and submits to MOF the Annual On-Site reports and the Quarterly Off-Site
Examination Reports of Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao (BCEL), Lao Development Bank (LDB), and Agricultural
Promotion Bank (APB).
Rationale for reformulation: same as above.
Rationale: Under the leadership of the BOL, the decree is intended to update and elevate to decree the 3 currently existing
regulations relevant for microfinance into a decree.

                                                            43
PRIOR ACTION 6: SAO publishes a summary of its key findings from its audit of the budget execution report for
the FY 2008/09 after approval by the National Assembly.
Status: achieved - The SAO published on April 5, 2011 in the Paxaxon key findings from the audit report on the budget
execution for FY2008/09 approved by the National Assembly.
Rationale: The SAO’s intention is to prepare and publish a summary report on the findings from its audit of the budget
execution report for FY 2008/09 after it receives approval from the National Assembly. This will promote transparency in
the Government’s public financial reporting and assist in developing a better understanding of the SAO’s role, particularly
its independent oversight of the Government’s financial management and reporting. The completion of this policy action
together with the publication of debt data will upgrade PEFA indicator P I-10 from C to B.
PRIOR ACTION 7: MOH makes public the first National Health Statistics Report 3.
Status: achieved - The MOH made public the first National Health Statistics Report on April 12, 2011.
Rationale: Although weaknesses remain in the current Health Management Information System (HMIS), significant
progress has been made in recent years to strengthen reporting, consolidation, and analysis of data. Reporting formats are
now consistent nationally, and the timeliness of submission of data by districts and provinces has improved steadily. MOH
proposes to publish its first National health Statistics Report, and by doing so improving the performance monitoring and
oversight of the sector.

   VI.     OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

   POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT

   125.    The links between the decrease in poverty and government programs and expenditure are
   complex, and the subject of ongoing analytical work. However, it is clear that the substantial
   improvements in access to social services and infrastructure over the most recent period have played an
   important role in reducing consumption poverty and increasing welfare. The improvements in access to
   roads, clean water and sanitation are particularly impressive. Education opportunities have expanded and
   more than eight in ten children between the ages of six and ten are enrolled in primary school. In addition,
   a swift expansion in ownership of assets has occurred, including motorbikes and mobile phones, even in
   the most remote areas. This is increasingly linking previously remote communities to infrastructure and
   information.

   126.    At the same time, lack of access to infrastructure, services and markets is strongly correlated to
   poverty progress. Enrollment rates among ethnic minorities and those living in remote rural areas remain
   far below the national average. Furthermore, improvements in access to healthcare over the past 5 years
   have been slow. Many households still need to travel long distances on poor roads in order to access
   healthcare. Although the causal relationships are complex, it appears that lack of access to infrastructure
   and markets are closely associated with barriers to growth and poverty reduction and require further
   investment.

   127.     The PRSO series supports and is fully consistent with the Government poverty reduction
   strategy, embedded in the NSEDP, which provides a comprehensive strategy for development, with a
   range of medium-term policies aimed at sustained growth and poverty reduction. The NSEDP addresses
   poverty in Lao PDR through several thematic and cross-cutting issues, aiming to further its reduction
   through sectoral and regional development. The poverty reduction strategy seeks to expand economic
   activity, improve access to basic services, increase health security, and empower decision-making of the
   poor. It recognizes the role of good governance and legal reforms will play in this strategy, as well as how
   private sector development and natural resource management interplay to better ensure opportunities and
   funding in fighting poverty.

   128.    Policy actions supported under PRSO7 are expected to have positive social impacts, and no
   significantly negative impacts are envisaged. On the business development and investment climate

                                                           44
component, the proposed operation supports greater clarity and consistency in the legislative framework
relating to investment and doing business climate, and together with supporting the development of the
trade facilitation action plan, aims to improve coordination across different agencies so that citizens can
engage more easily in trade and commerce. These reforms are expected to have a positive impact on
employment and incomes generally.

129.    With regards to SOEs, the operation supports measures aimed at improving the financial
management of SOE’s so that the quality of their services improves and leakage of resources is curtailed.
While SOE restructuring may potentially have an adverse social impact, given that the SOE sector is
small, impacts will be very low (the program only covers nine enterprises directly, and no massive lay-
offs).

130.     By supporting policies to reduce government arrears to EDL, it is envisaged that EDL will be
able to invest more resources in improving services and maintain its countrywide electricity system better.
In addition, clarity in the financial arrangements for electricity provision in the agriculture sector would
enhance transparency in roles and responsibilities of MOF and EDL, improving coordination between
these two entities to serve users better. This would mean that all users would benefit from better service
provision. Although PRSO is not supporting directly the adjustment in electricity tariffs, it is useful to
note that these adjustments are been made in such way that they remain affordable for the poorest.

131.    Public financial management reforms aim to improve fiduciary controls and enhance
quality of service delivery. By supporting the development of rules based and transparent budget norms,
the operation aims to assist the government in addressing the horizontal inequities between rich and poor
provinces on spending on health and education. The operation is also supporting the Government’s efforts
at centralizing the Treasury department. This reform will significantly: (i) reduce fiduciary risks
associated with fragmentation of government bank accounts across the country; and (ii) ensure that funds
are transferred to service delivery units in a timelier manner. The operation is also supporting the
publication of budget execution reports as well as budget plans.

ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS

132.     This operation is not likely to have significant negative effects on environment, natural
resources, and forestry. Nevertheless, certain environmental impacts might arise since the PRSO series
supports a wide range of policy areas and interventions. While PRSO supports SOE restructuring and
may have potential environmental implications, given that SOE sector is small, impacts will be low (the
program only covers nine enterprises directly, and no construction/destruction are envisioned). While
trade liberalization may potentially have an impact on the environment, this operation covers only first
steps and regulatory reforms aimed directly at easing cross-border movements of goods, rather than at
major trade reforms. In fact, the investment climate improvement program would not touch upon
environmentally-sensitive sectors, such as forestry or mining since these sectors are regulated by separate
legislation. The impacts therefore are expected to be low or minimal.

133.    PRSO7 continues to support policy and institutional reform in natural resources
management. Regarding infrastructure, the PRSO program provides support to EDL to implement the
Action Plan for the Financial Sustainability of the Power Sector. Since the major source of power comes
from hydropower with potentially high environment and social impacts, the Government is working
toward ensuring compliance with environmental and social safeguards. Support from international
partners is available through the NT2 Hydroelectric Project, Nam Theun Social and Environment Project,
and the Lao Environment and Social Project. In the context of NT2, the Government has enacted the
National Policy on Environmental and Social Sustainability of the Hydropower Sector to ensure that
future development of the hydropower projects complies with environment and social safeguards. In the

                                                    45
mining sector, the PRSO supports the completion of the new mining legislation, including the
development of complementary regulations which comprise standards and detailed regulations for
environmental protection. The PRSO program is supported by the Lao Environmental and Social (LEnS)
project; NT2 environmental, economic and social work; the Poverty and Environment Nexus study series
and the Lao Environment Monitor.

134.    The Lao Environmental and Social Project is supporting the development of the regulatory
framework for the hydropower sector, and in relation to other large development projects. Sub-grants to
support implementation of the National Policy on the Environmental and Social Sustainability of the
Hydropower Sector and the Resettlement Policy have been implemented and their phase I reports are
ready. Based on the findings and stakeholders dialogues, the Environment and Social Impact Assessment
(ESIA) Practice and New ESIA regulation in Lao PDR have been revised and approved. A sub-grant to
develop a river basin organization to manage water resources in the Nam Theun/Nam Kading basin, has
contributed to the development of a national river basin management model, alongside ABD/AFD efforts
in the Nam Ngum basin.

135.    The recently approved Technical Assistance Project for Capacity Development in
Hydropower and Mining Sector will enhance the awareness and technical knowledge of Ministry of
Energy and Mines (MEM) agencies, especially the Department of Electricity (DOE), the Department of
Mines (DOM), and the provincial departments of MEM (PDEM), to address environment and social
safeguard issues. Environmental and social capacity building and awareness is an integral part of the
design of each of the project components.

136.     The NT2 Project remains the primary vehicle for on-the-ground implementation of social and
environmental safeguards related to hydropower development, and is providing considerable practical
experience and potential for capacity building in relation to a broad range of social and environmental
activities, including detailed and long-term village consultations, protected area management, community
forestry, community fisheries, development of market-based agriculture, and development of links
between micro-credit schemes and the formal financial sector.

IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION

137.     The progress in NSEDP implementation is monitored annually by the Government (MPI).
Each year, government agencies report to MPI progress on implementation through a bottom-up process
which follows administrative levels (from districts to provinces to Central administrations). Regular
discussions also take place with the donor community within the Macroeconomic, Private Sector
Development and Trade Working Group as part of the Round Table Meeting (RTM) process, as well as
separate and more detailed discussions on each part of the PRSO in other RTM working groups. The
IMF conducts supervision through annual Article IV missions development partners, especially co-
financing development partners, participate in missions and retreats. The Bank is supporting the progress
in strengthening the M&E framework for the NSEDP, by providing capacity building to the MPI, key line
ministries, pilot provinces, and to the National Assembly staff. An essential part of these capacity-
building activities includes support for the sector monitoring plans under the NSEDP. As far as possible,
outcome indicators listed in the PRSO matrix are identical with the outcome indicators of the NSEDP
monitoring plans drafted by the line ministries, including ministries of Health and Education.

138.    The implementation of the PRSO program is led by the PRSO Steering Committee. The
Steering Committee has been established by Order of the Prime Minister, is chaired by the Minister of
Finance and supported by a PRSO Secretariat chaired by the Vice Minister of Finance; both bodies
include senior level representation from relevant ministries. In particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
the MPI and its National Statistics Center, Ministries of Education and Health, Energy and Mining,

                                                     46
Industry and Commerce, Agriculture and Forestry, MTCPC, BOL, PMO and its Business Promotion
Office, PACSA, and other agencies are represented. The PRSO Secretariat covers the program
implementation and coordinates with all relevant ministries and agencies.

139.     Stakeholder consultations on reforms take place regularly, are government-led, and
mainstreamed into PRSO policy actions. Consultations are an integral part of the consensus building
efforts towards reform in Laos and a key element of success. It is standard practice for the Government to
set up working groups, task forces, steering committees and organize workshops with key agencies and
stakeholders to discuss strategic orientations, including design of sectoral strategies, legislative and
regulatory framework, and implementation modalities of policies. Development partners support
consultation initiatives where appropriate through financial means and technical assistance.

140.    Progress with the PRSO program implementation is monitored by the PRSO Secretariat
with reference to the PRSO Program Matrix, updated annually as part of PRSO negotiations. The
PRSO Secretariat meets regularly to take stock of progress and discuss next steps for policy reform
implementation. The World Bank and development partners monitor progress via continuous dialogue
throughout the year, including periodic missions. Accordingly, this Program Document for the second
series of four PRSOs includes a policy reform matrix designed and updated jointly by the Government,
the World Bank and co-financing development partners to reflect evolving policies and the pace of
implementation of the NSEDP and the current status of progress.

141.     In addition to monitoring of progress against policy actions, a Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) framework has been designed to cover all four operations in the series and to reflect as
realistically as possible progress toward the end of the series, at the time the Implementation Completion
Report in 2012. PRSO results indicators have been regularly updated to track the impact of this PRSO
series. While it might be the case that some targets may not be met by the end of the series, it is expected
that most of them would be achieved, on the basis of implementation of prior actions and policy actions.
Nevertheless, some results and outcomes may not be always aligned with policy reforms, as the latter do
not translate into outcomes in a linear and timely fashion. The end-of-series outcomes expected under
each sub-component of the PRSO program are recorded in the PRSO matrix (Annex 3). Indicators for
general monitoring of development impact, including the European Union Variable Tranche Indicators is
also presented in Annex 4. In addition, macroeconomic developments and poverty and social indicators
are closely monitored (see above).

FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

142.     The Government has been improving the overall fiduciary arrangements around budget
execution, however, weaknesses remain. The overall fiduciary risk is considered to be significant due
to weakness in the financial management systems and slow implementation of the improved public
procurement framework. The government has started publishing quarterly budget execution reports to
increase transparency in budget execution. However the accuracy and comprehensiveness of these reports
need to be further improved. At the same time implementation of the Consolidated Treasury Account
framework has helped the National Treasury take direct control over revenue accounts across the country.
This has allowed the National Treasury to conduct daily reconciliation of bank accounts. From
FY2008/09 the SAO submitted to the National Assembly a report on audit findings from the audit report
of FY2008/09 annual budget execution report for the June session. The publication of a summary of audit
report is a PRSO7 prior action. The summary audit report for the FY2008/09 had been prepared and was
published in a local newspaper, Paxaxon, in April 2011. The accounting and auditing profession and
related institutions need to be developed.



                                                    47
143.     Despite the significant fiduciary weaknesses, significant progress in improving the PFM
system and the reforms has taken place through PRSO and other instruments which warrant
continuing support through to a budget support operation. Actions planned under PRSO6-7 are
contributing to reducing the fiduciary risk. Major recommendations aimed at further improving the PFM
systems, including the efficiency and transparency of use of public resources, are reflected in the PFMSP
and supported by the PRSO program, and other instruments in place such as the MDTF and FMCBP.
The challenge is to effectively implement the PFMSP, and monitor the strengthening program initiatives
by the Government. Strengthening the external audit function and PFM systems is a medium- to long-
term process monitored under this series. The legislative framework for public procurement has been
improved over the recent years through the passage of a new procurement decree, implementing rules &
regulations, a standard procurement manual and standard bidding documents, but implementation needs
to be improved and immediate priorities are to ensure country-wide usage of the recently approved
standard procurement documents by all procuring agencies and strengthening their capacity through
establishment of an institutionalized procurement capacity building program as well putting in place a
system for monitoring procurement performance and outcomes.

144.     The last IMF Safeguard Assessment of the BOL, conducted in 2003, classified the risk as
being medium-high in the five categories on which the assessment was based (external audit mechanism,
legal structure and independence, financial reporting framework, internal audit mechanism and internal
control system). Progress on the safeguard recommendations has been mixed, and the agreed joint audit
of the BOL 2003 and 2004 accounts by the State Auditor and an international audit firm have not been
done. However, the SAO has conducted compliance and financial audits on BOL annually since 2007/08.
These audit reports have been submitted to the National Assembly, but are not available to the public.

145.    It is recommended that the Recipient will maintain a dedicated deposit account for the
proceeds of the Grant, and will report on the funds flow of the dedicated deposit account. The
Government will, if considered necessary by IDA, allow an independent external audit of the dedicated
foreign currency deposit account.

DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING

146.    A single tranche grant of SDR 6.4 million (US$10 million equivalent) will be made available
upon grant effectiveness, anticipated for June 2011. The recipient is the Lao PDR. The closing date of
the operation will be February 29, 2012.

147.    The Grant proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the
development policy program and the stipulated release conditions of PRSO7. The grant proceeds
will not be tied to any specific purchases. However, such proceeds will not be used for ineligible
expenditures. As was practice under PRSO1-6, the Recipient will maintain a dedicated Deposit Account
in US dollars at the BOL (which is the Central Bank of the Government), as part of the general foreign
currency reserves of the Government, and the Grant proceeds will be deposited by IDA into that Deposit
Account. An equivalent amount will be converted into local currency and credited to a Central Treasury
account that is used to finance budget expenditures.

148.     Through the MOF, the Government will report to IDA the amount received into the US
Dollar Deposit Account at the BOL, and the amounts withdrawn from the Deposit Account and the
equivalent amounts credited in local currency to the Central Treasury Account available to finance
budgeted expenditures. The report on the amounts withdrawn will include the date and name/number of
the Government’s bank account into which the local currency amounts have been deposited. The report
on receipts and disbursements from the Deposit Accounts is to be submitted to IDA within 45 days of the
final disbursement of the grant proceeds from the Deposit Account.

                                                   48
149.    The Government will ensure that the grant proceeds are used for budgeted public
expenditures except for purposes or items on IDA’s “negative list” as agreed during negotiations
and specified in the Financing Agreement. If the proceeds of the Grant or any part of the Grant
proceeds are used for ineligible purposes, as defined in the Financing Agreement, the Bank will require
the Government, upon notification from IDA, to refund the amount directly to IDA. Amounts refunded to
IDA upon such requests shall be cancelled. Upon request by IDA, the dedicated account and related fund
flows to and from this account will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and the audit report will be provided to IDA within
four months after IDA’s request for such an audit. The processes and controls described above reflect the
findings of the IMF's safeguard assessment as regards the central bank control environment in making use
of a dedicated deposit account for the foreign exchange proceeds of the Bank's disbursement.

RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

150.      The Lao PDR PRSO series remains a relatively high risk program warranted by a
substantial potential payoff — Lao PDR remaining on its current growth and poverty reduction
trajectory and making progress towards the MDGs. Over time the nature of risks has changed. Risks
initially identified as binding such as commitment to reform and inter-agency coordination have declined,
while capacity risks have increased and become a possible binding constraint. More recently, the global
crisis has challenged macroeconomic policy coordination and brought macroeconomic management risks
at the forefront. Significant risk mitigation remains necessary. Three main risks have been identified
which could affect the impact of the proposed operation and PRSO program. These are set out below
together with mitigating factors:

    (a) Potential deterioration of the macroeconomic outlook may come from: (i) delays in the start of
        operation of hydropower projects, and/or construction of new power plants, and/or weaker
        regional demand for Laos key exports and leading to a decline in exports earnings and FDI, in a
        still weak recovery of the global economy, even though Laos benefits from a dynamic regional
        neighborhood; (ii) the risk of downward pressure on the exchange rate triggered by a fall in net
        foreign assets and international reserves is reduced with the recent recovery of net foreign assets
        and reserves and slowdown in credit growth, requires monitoring in the context of 50 percent
        dollarized economy where monetary holding remain very sensitive to exchange rate movements;
        and (iii) a sharp rise in non-performing loans following recent rapid – albeit slowing down -
        growth in credit triggering default in the banking sector, leading to a loss in the public
        confidence in the banking sector ability to protect savings and in the credibility of the exchange
        rate, against the backdrop of limited bank supervision, leading to a rapid deterioration of banking
        sector performance and heightened downward pressures on the exchange rate. To address these
        risks, the recent prudent Government policy stance of low fiscal deficit, combined with phasing
        out of quasi-fiscal activities and slower credit growth is much welcome. The PRSO operation
        and the Lao PDR country program mitigate this risk by the following avenues: (i) through
        strengthened macroeconomic monitoring providing inputs to the design of an appropriate
        macroeconomic mix response; (ii) by providing direct general budget support which eases the
        constraint of financing reforms in the context of multiple and competing needs, and facilitate the
        Government’s exit out of the fiscal stimulus provided during the global crisis; (iii) by assisting
        Government to put in place appropriate policies and institutional mechanism for improved
        expenditure and SOEs management; (iv) policy actions that limit the accumulation of arrears to
        EDL; and (v) a financial sector component that includes SOCBs monitoring and strengthens
        bank supervision. Most importantly, the Government is committed to a sustainable
        macroeconomic path, as evidenced by the phasing out of quasi-fiscal activities and the recent
        slowdown of private credit expansion in the economy.


                                                    49
(b) The weak PFM system does not allow for timely reconciliation and reporting of public
    finances indicates a high fiduciary risk of possible leakages of funds. This risk is heightened
    by provincial autonomy without adequate monitoring and accountability mechanisms This risk is
    mitigated by the fact that the Government is now in the process of recentralizing budget
    execution at the National Treasury and established the Treasury Single Account, and revenue
    administration functions (Customs and Tax Departments), and the PRSO is supporting this
    program frontally. Continuing fiscal risks could result in the diversion of PRSO funds away from
    PRS priorities, and to cover losses of SOCBs and SOEs. This risk is partially mitigated by a
    program of monitoring of SOE and SOCB performance embedded in PRSO program matrix and
    closer implementation support by Bank staff on PFM issues. To date the PRSOs have
    contributed to the following: (i) the National Treasury centralization process has already resulted
    in the MOF taking control of provincial government bank accounts; (ii) deployment of e-Revenue
    facilities at the Vientiane Capital Tax office; (iii) EDL has stopped making losses; and (iv) budget
    monitoring system being strengthened. Therefore, over the course of the PRSOs, these risks have
    been reduced.
(c) Severe capacity constraints in the civil service are due to the lack of adequate qualified
    personnel, and low pay and incentives. This risk is partially mitigated by working with the
    Government to outsource non-core functions like ICT connectivity for GFIS, supporting the
    Government in formulating an appropriate pay and compensation policy, and provision of
    additional resources for PRSOs’ implementation through a World Bank project (FMCBP),
    Mining and Energy Sectoral TA, and TA provided by other development partners. Consistent
    with the lessons learned from the previous series, the team ensures that TA be available for each
    sub-component and action in the action matrix, and development partners work together to
    identify capacity building needs: additional resources made available to PRSO include bilateral
    aid from Japan, Australia, and EC, and aligned TA provided through MDTF administered by the
    World Bank on behalf of other development partners.




                                                50
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY




                 51
52
53
54
55
56
                                             ANNEX 2: PRSO4-7 PROGRAM ACTION MATRIX 20

  Objectives                PRSO4                               PRSO5                                   PRSO6                           PRSO 7                  TA
                         by March 2008                       by March 2009                           by March 2010                   by March 2011
COMPONENT 1. INVESTMENT CLIMATE, COMPETITIVENESS, AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
1.1 Create          Government approved          MOIC issued notification on                                                   LNTA submits business         ADB, EC
enabling            the negative list of         simplified enterprise registration                                            licensing procedures for      and IFC-
business            activities as part of        procedures, including standard                                                hotels and tour operators     MPDF
environment         Enterprise Law               application forms and company by-                                                                           ADB
and attract         implementation               laws as part of Enterprise Law               MPI abolished the                Government approves PM        EC
quality                                          implementation                               requirement for an               Decree on Special and
investment                                                                                    investment license for           Specific Economic Zones
                                                 MOIC conducted red tape study to             general investment activities                                  JICA
                    MOIC abolished               initiate licensing review process for        outside the Negative List as
                    establishment license for    key non-resource sectors                     part of the implementation
                    manufacturing sector                                                      of the Law on Investment
                    firms                                                                     Promotion
                    MPI submitted addendum       Government submitted for approval            Prime Minister’s Decree 112      Four implementing             IFC-
                    to Investment Law            to the National Assembly a Law on            on Environmental Impact          regulations for Decree 112    MPDF,
                    Implementation decrees       Promotion of Investment consistent           Assessment issued.               on environmental impact       WB,
                    for Government for           with Law on Enterprise                                                        assessment are issued.        AusAID.
                    approval                                                                  Annual Status Report on                                        EC
                                                 MEM in close consultation with               National Policy on Sustainable   GOL reviews National
                                                 WREA develops an action plan to              Hydropower is disclosed          Policy on Sustainable
                                                 bring relevant hydropower facilities in                                       Hydropower, and develops
                                                 compliance with National Policy on           Minerals Law, including          action plan to implement it
                                                 Sustainable Hydropower (NPH)                 principles of uniform and
                                                                                              transparent taxation and         MEM submits for
                                                 Government submitted the revised             revenue collection,              approval to the Prime
                                                 Minerals Law to the National                 promulgated by the President.    Minister Office a draft
                                                 Assembly and conducted                                                        decree on the
                                                 consultations on the Extractive                                               implementation of the
                                                 Industries Transparency Initiative                                            minerals law
                                                 (EITI)




    20
         All items represent expected policy actions. Bolded items present expected prior actions.
                                                                                         57
   Objectives              PRSO4                               PRSO5                               PRSO6                        PRSO7                TA
                       by March 2008                      by March 2009                        by March 2010                by March 2011
1.2 Reduce trade   MOIC abolished the        MOIC prepared notification on revised      Government approved PM         Cabinet approves the        WB, EC,
barriers and       requirement to follow     list of prohibited goods for import and    Decree on Rules-of-Origin      Decree on Import and        MTDF,
proceed with       approved annual           export, and goods subject to import and    and the MOIC has               Export of Goods             AusAID,
implementation     import-export plan        export license based on draft revised      submitted to the Minister of                               IMF
of international   and abolished             PM Decree on Import Licensing              MOIC the implementing
and regional       licensing                 Procedures                                 regulations under said
agreements         requirements for all                                                 Decree
                   goods outside the         MOIC, MOF, and related agencies
                   revised control list      prepared detailed draft Trade                                             Government approves
                                             Facilitation Master Plan, including                                       Trade Facilitation Master
                                             the Action Plan to implement such                                         Plan and commences          WB
                   MOIC and MOF              master plan                                                               implementation
                   reviewed current
                   business procedures       MOF issued key implementing                                               MOF streamlines customs
                   for international trade   regulations for 2005 Customs Law           MOF approved new single        clearance procedures.
                   and drafted trade                                                    administrative document,
                   facilitation reform                                                  consistent with ASEAN                                      IMF and
                   agenda                                                               requirements                                               WB



                   Government issued
                   implementing decree
                   for 2005 Customs Law

                   PMO, MOIC, and
                   MOF implemented
                   regulation to remove
                   all but CIQ agencies
                   from all customs
                   border checkpoints




                                                                                   58
                         PRSO4                             PRSO5                                   PRSO6                         PRSO7                 TA
    Objectives        by March 2008                    by March 2009                           by March 2010                 by March 2011
1.3 Improve the   BPO continued             BPO prepared restructuring plans for        NCBD prepared plans for        NCBD continues                WB, JICA
performance and   monitoring of SOEs,       Phase II SOEs to Government for             Phase II and Phase III SOEs    preparing for the
monitoring of     including completion      approval                                    for Government approval        restructuration of the
state-owned       of independent                                                                                       remaining 7 SOEs
enterprises       external audits for
(SOEs)            FY05 and FY06 for         BPO took action based on the
                  four Phase II and         evaluation of Phase III SOEs                                               NCBD submitted
                  three Phase I SOEs                                                                                   strategic plan for SOE
                                                                                                                       reform and business
                  BPO prepared                                                                                         development
                  evaluation report for
                  the evaluation of Phase                                                                              MoF publishes statistics on
                  III SOEs                                                              MOF compiled statistics on     SOEs and overall
                                            MOF completed performance                   SOEs and overall performance   performance of SOE sector
                  MOF completed             assessment for all central SOEs for         of SOE sector
                  performance               2007
                  assessment for all
                  SOEs for 2006




                                                                                   59
Objectives          PRSO4                               PRSO5                                PRSO6                            PRSO7             TA
                 by March 2008                      by March 2009                        by March 2010                    by March 2011
             MOF, MEM and             MOF and EDL remained current on            MOF (a) remained current          MOF and EDL fully           WB
             Electricité du Laos      settlement of arrears including for        on settlement of arrears for      settle arrears of GOL
             (EDL) agreed upon        FY2004/05, FY2005/06, and agree            the period commencing             entities to EDL up to
             the quantum and a        upon the quantum and a plan to fully       FY 2004/05 and including          September 2010 in
             plan to settle arrears   settle arrears by 2011 from GOL            FY2007/08, and reconcile          FY2010/11; MOF
             from GOL entities to     entities to EDL up to September 2009       arrears for FY 2008/09;           provides adequate
             EDL up to September      (including projected quantum for           (b) provided adequate             budgetary allocation for
             2006, within             FY2008/09) for FY2006/7, MOF               budgetary allocations to          current electricity
             implementation of        provides increased budget FY08/09 for      government agencies for           consumption for FY
             the Action Plan for      covering current consumption of            current electricity               2010/11; MOF and EDL
             Financial                electricity, and MOF, MEM and EDL          consumption for FY2009/10;        agree on a sustainable
             Sustainability of the    continue to comply with the Action         and (c) together with EDL,        mechanism for electricity
             Power Sector             Plan for financial sustainability of the   clarified financial               bill payment to ensure no
                                      Power Sector                               arrangements for electricity      new arrears are
                                                                                 provision to the irrigation       accumulated
                                                                                 sector in a letter sent by
                                                                                 EDL to MOF on April 30,
                                                                                 2010 and at a following
                                                                                 workshop held in Vientiane
                                                                                 on May 4, 2010

                                                                                 MEM and EDL continued to
                                                                                 comply with the Action Plan
                                                                                 for Financial Sustainability of
                                                                                 the Power Sector




                                                                            60
   Objectives               PRSO4                            PRSO5                                   PRSO6                            PRSO7               TA
                       by March 2008                     by March 2009                           by March 2010                   by March 2011
1.4 Enhance         BOL completed            BOL completed independent external          BOL completed independent         BOL completes                IFC-
commercialization   independent external     audits for 2007 for BCEL, LDB, and          external audits for 2008 for      independent external 2009    MPDF,
and transparency    audits for 2006 for      APB                                         BCEL, LDB, and APB                audits for BCEL, LDB, and    ADB,
of state-owned      BCEL, LDB, and                                                                                         APB in June 2010, and        GTZ, WB
commercial banks    APB, and started                                                                                       2010 audits within 90 days
(SOCBs)             independent external                                                 BOL approved the Action           after year ends.
                    audits for 2007          BOL finalized Financial Sector              Plan for the Financial Sector
                                             Strategy (FSS)                              Strategy                          The BOL submits the
                                                                                                                           Microfinance Decree for
                                             BOL completed and submitted to              BOL completed and submits to      government’s approval
                                             MOF 2008 semi-annual evaluation             MOF July-Dec, 2008 and Jan-
                    BOL completed and        reports on APB performance against          June, 2009 semi-annual
                    submitted to MOF         operational and financial targets based     evaluation reports on APB         BOL reviews and update
                    quarterly evaluation     on their respective signed Governance       performance against operational   BOL prudential rules for
                    reports of BCEL and      Agreements                                  and financial targets based on    banking sector
                    LDB, performance                                                     the signed Governance             supervision
                    against operational                                                  Agreements
                    and financial targets
                    based on Governance                                                  BOL submitted to the
                    Agreements                                                           Ministry of Finance on April
                                                                                         30, 2010 the Annual On-Site
                                                                                         Reports and the Quarterly
                                                                                         Off-Site Examination Reports
                                                                                         of BCEL, LDB, and APB
                    Government               BOL issued regulations on                   Banks implemented new Chart
                    submitted revised        microfinance concerning all deposit-        of Accounts (COA) in line with
                    Presidential decree      taking and non-deposit taking micro-        accounting principles adopted
                    law on Governing the     finance institutions (MFIs)                 by Lao PDR in July 2007
                    Management of
                    Foreign Exchange and     Decree on implementation of the Law
                    Precious Metals to the   on Commercial Banks was submitted
                    National Assembly        to the PMO for Government’s
                                             consideration




                                                                                    61
  Objectives             PRSO4                           PRSO5                               PRSO6                          PRSO7                   TA
                      by March 2008                   by March 2009                       by March 2010                  by March 2011
COMPONENT II. PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT AND IMPROVING SERVICE DELIVERY
2.1 Improved       MOF expanded              MOF continued to update regularly    MOF updated the PFMSP             MOF updates the PFMSP        WB
credibility of     coverage of PEMSP to      the PFMSP program document, with     program document, with annual     program document             FMCBP
budget planning,   include revenue reforms   annual work program, and             work plan, and simple results     (incorporating inputs from   and PFMSP
and enhancing      (customs and tax) and     demonstrated on-going progress       framework (incorporating inputs   2010 PEFA assessment         multi-donor
transparency and   approved updated          with implementation and capacity     from 2009 PEFA assessment),       and the recommendations      trust fund
comprehensivene    Public Finance            building                             and demonstrates on-going         of 2009/2010 Public          (AusAID,
ss of budget       Management                                                     progress with implementation      Expenditure Review), with    EC, SDC,
reporting          Strengthening Program                                          and capacity building             medium-term                  and SIDA,
                   (PFMSP) program                                                                                  implementation plan and      and JICA)
                   document and annual                                                                              results framework, and
                   work plan for FY2008,                                                                            demonstrates on-going
                   incorporating elements                                                                           progress with
                   of Budget Law                                                                                    implementation and
                   Implementation, and                                                                              capacity building
                   the medium term
                   implementation
                   schedule, and
                   demonstrated on-going
                   progress with
                   implementation and
                   capacity building




                                                                                 62
Objectives          PRSO4                         PRSO5                                    PRSO6                            PRSO7               TA
                by March 2008                 by March 2009                            by March 2010                    by March 2011
             MOF issued a           MOF, in collaboration with MOH,           MOF, in collaboration with          MOF, in collaboration with
             Ministerial Decision   MOE, and provinces, approved a            MOH and MOE, completed              Ministry of Health and
             requiring ministries   new revenue sharing formula and           development of the concept          Ministry of Education,
             and provinces to       aggregate budget allocation               notes, including clarifying the     implements budget
             prepare FY2008/9       norms to guide preparation of             roles and responsibilities of the   allocation norms for health
             budget estimates       FY2009/10 budget, and finalized a         central government and              and education sector for
             based on revised       strategy and implementation plan          provinces in administration         FY11/12 budget
             Chart of Accounts      for developing a sector budget            financing and delivery of
             (COA) and Budget       norm-based revenue sharing                education and health services so
             Nomenclature           system for implementation from            that budget allocation norms for
                                    the FY2010/11 budget                      health and education sectors can
                                                                              be developed for application
                                    MOF: implemented new COA and              from FY11/12 budget
                                    budget nomenclature for the
                                    FY2008/09 budget:(ii) MOF
                                    published preliminary quarterly
                                    budget execution report starting first
                                    quarter of FY2008/09 reports with
                                    sectoral breakdowns




                                                                             63
Objectives            PRSO4                           PRSO5                                   PRSO6                            PRSO7                TA
                  by March 2008                   by March 2009                          by March 2010                     by March 2011
             MOF published             MOF published FY2006/07 actual          MOF published FY 2007/8              MOF publishes : (1) the
             FY2005/6 actual           budget and FY2008/09 summary            actual budget and FY2009/10          FY08/09 actual budget
             budget and the            budget with: (i) administrative         summary budget with:                 with expanded coverage by
             FY2007/8 summary          classification; (ii) priority           (i) administrative classification;   the end of FY2009/10; and
             budget with:              expenditure sectors; (iii) summary      (ii) priority expenditure sectors;   (2) FY2010/11 summary
             (i) administrative        data on statutory funds; and            (iii) summary data on statutory      budget with:
             classification;           (iv) technical revenues for health      funds; and (iv) technical            (i) administrative
             (ii) priority             and education sectors at central and    revenues, publishing a summary       classification; (ii) priority
             expenditure sectors;      provincial level, publishing a          within the first quarter of the      expenditure sectors;
             (iii) summary data on     summary within the second quarter       fiscal year                          (iii) summary data on
             statutory funds; and      of the fiscal year                                                           statutory funds; and
             (iv) technical                                                                                         (iv) disaggregated
             revenues for health                                                                                    technical revenues within
             and education sectors                                             MOF produced automated               the first quarter of the
             at central level,                                                 quarterly budget execution for       fiscal year
             publishing a                                                      FY2009/10 budget with sectoral
             summary within the                                                breakdowns within 4 to 6 weeks
             second quarter of the                                             after end of quarter                 MOF publishes automated
             fiscal year                                                                                            quarterly budget execution
                                                                                                                    for FY2010/11 budget with
             MOF developed                                                                                          sectoral breakdowns
             reports for extracting
             necessary data from
             GFIS for the approved
             quarterly consolidated
             budget execution report
             formats;




                                                                              64
   Objectives               PRSO4                          PRSO5                                PRSO6                          PRSO7                  TA
                        by March 2008                  by March 2009                        by March 2010                  by March 2011
2.2 Improve         MOF prepared              MOF approved the Treasury             MOF completed centralization     MOF and BOL continue          WB
transparency of     comprehensive master      Single Account framework by           of the National Treasury on      consolidation of spending     FMCBP
the                 plan for Treasury         consolidating all revenue accounts    December 31, 2009, and the       unit accounts and pilot       and
intergovernmental   centralization,           into Treasury managed accounts        Minister of Finance issued       introduction of Treasury      PFMSP
fiscal relations,   consistent with Budget    and started implementation of         Instruction No. 734/MOF on       zero-balance accounts         Multi-
and faster budget   Law                       this framework                        April 21, 2010 to the National                                 donor
execution                                                                           Treasury to transfer spending                                  Trust
                    Government approved                                             unit accounts to the National    MOF starts DMFAS              Fund
                    Budget Law                MOF approved appropriate              Treasury                         deployment, publishes an      supported
                    Implementation Decree     legislation or regulations for                                         annual debt bulletin on       by
                                              administrative centralization of                                       aggregated external debt in   AusAID,
                    MOF has approved an       customs and tax departments and       MOF published annual reports     the Official Gazette and      EC, SDC,
                    appropriate debt          begins implementation of              on external MOF website and      MOF’s web site, and           SIDA and
                    reporting format          centralization of these functions     endorses a concept note for a    prepares debt management      JICA.
                    consistent with                                                 debt management approach         legal framework
                    international standards   (MOF completes negotiations for       paper
                    and selected DMFAS        deployment of DMFAS system)                                            MPI adopts and
                    as a debt reporting                                                                              commences
                    format and system                                                                                implementation of a new
                                                                                                                     PIP budget aligned with
                                                                                    MPI submitted Public             the new management
                                                                                    Investment Law for National      framework (Public
                                                                                    Assembly approval                Investment Law,
                                                                                                                     Implementation Decree
                                                                                                                     and Regulation, PIP
                                                                                                                     Management manuals)




                                                                                   65
   Objectives                PRSO4                              PRSO5                                  PRSO6                              PRSO7                 TA
                        by March 2008                       by March 2009                         by March 2010                       by March 2011
                    MOF issued official          MOF strengthened PrMO’s staffing         MOF: (i) provided training to        MOF starts the process of     WB IDF
                    notifications requiring al   capacity in-line and PrMO issued         agencies on the standard bidding     developing                    grant and
                    procuring agencies to:       standard procurement documents           documents and procurement            institutionalized             FMCBP
                    (a) apply standard           and procurement manual.                  manual; (ii) operationalized the     procurement capacity
                    procurement documents                                                 procurement website and              building program
                    developed by PrMO; and                                                publishes its procurement
                    (b) submitted to PrMO at                                              performance information
                    regular intervals
                    procurement performanc
                    data in the format
                    developed by PrMO
2.3 Improving the   SAO completed the            SAO approved audit                       SAO commenced                        SAO publishes a               FMCBP
timeliness and      Audit Peer Review            strengthening plan based on the          implementation of the capacity       summary of its key            and ADB
quality of          (APR) and drafted the        Audit Peer Review                        building plan based on the APR       findings from its audit of
financial audit     APR report as a basis                                                 and budget allocations for SAO       the budget execution
                    for the capacity                                                      increase in line with its mandates   report for the FY 2008/09
                    strengthening plan                                                    as per the Audit Law 2007            after approval by the
                                                                                                                               National Assembly

                                                                                                                               SAO continues
                                                                                                                               implementation of the
                                                                                                                               capacity building plan
                                                                                                                               based on the APR and
                                                                                                                               budget allocations for the
                                                                                                                               SAO continue to reflect its
                                                                                                                               evolving mandate as per
                                                                                                                               the Audit Law 2007

2.4 Improving       PACSA drafted and            PACSA drafts a civil service reform       Government approved the             Government initiates          UNDP-
service delivery    submitted for review to      strategy that aims to address:           Decree on benefits for officials     implementation of the         EC-
                    Government decree on         (i) sectoral issues of adequate pay      in remote areas and PACSA            civil service reform          UNCDF
                    incentives and benefits      and incentives; (ii) performance         submits to government the civil      strategy and the decree on    GPAR,
                    for officials working in     management; and (iii) issues relating    service reform strategy              retention                     WB
                    remote areas                 to ensuring adequacy of service
                                                 delivery staff in remote, rural, and
                                                 underserved areas




                                                                                         66
   Objectives         PRSO4                             PRSO5                                PRSO6                           PRSO7                TA
                   by March 2008                    by March 2009                        by March 2010                   by March 2011
Education       MOF presented the        MOE presented annual work plan        As part of ESDF                     As part of the ESDF          AusAID,
                Education for All        to Education Sector Working           implementation, MOE submitted       implementation, MOE          ADB,
                Mid-Decade               Group, including costs and            to MOF a costed and prioritized     submits to MoF a costed      UNICEF,
                Assessment to the        priorities, identifying resources     annual sector work-plan             and prioritized annual       WB
                Education and            needed in FY2009/10                   FY10/11 that reflects ESDF          sector work plan FY
                Gender Sector                                                  priorities and is consistent with   2011/2012 that reflects
                Working Group            MOE adopted Education Sector          the 2011-15 NSEDP sector plan       ESDF priorities and is
                                         Development Framework with an                                             consistent with the 2011-
                                         associated roadmap and agreed                                             2015 NSEDP sector plan
                                         milestones for first year
                                                                               MOE and MOF agreed to
                                                                               provide one set of textbooks per    MOE prepares an ESDF
                                                                               student for Grades 1-5, inc. free   sector monitoring plan for
                                                                               distribution to poorest students,   FY 2010/11 and sets up the
                                                                               and reflect this in FY10/11         monitoring system to
                                                                               budget                              ensure all students in
                                                                                                                   Grade 1-5 have a set of
                                                                               MOE and MOF had                     textbooks
                                                                               consultations to introduce a unit
                                                                               cost for nonwage recurrent          Government initiates a
                                                                               expenditure formula with            scheme to pilot block
                                                                               allocations in FY11/12 and          grants to schools in
                                                                               MOE prepares the school block       FY2011/12
                                                                               grants decree
                MOE presented EMIS       MOE incorporated EMIS strategy        MOE published Education                                          AusAID,
                strategy &               in ESDF, completes EMIS database,     Yearbook using consolidated                                      WB,
                implementation plan      and consolidates EMIS and PMIS        data, including Assessment of                                    EC,
                and detailed 3-year      data in its Statistics & IT Center    Student Learning Outcomes                                        AFD
                plan of activities and
                support to Education
                and Gender Sector
                Working Group




                                                                              67
   Objectives           PRSO4                            PRSO5                                   PRSO6                         PRSO7                   TA
                   by March 2008                     by March 2009                           by March 2010                  by March 2011
Health          MOH approved              MOH prepared annual report on             MOH presented assessment of                                     WB,
                guidelines for            coverage, utilization, revenues, and      Health Equity Funds,              MOH submits Decree on         WHO,
                implementing pilot        expenditure of all operating HEFs         Community Based Health            Implementation of             ILO,
                Health Equity Funds       and Community Based Health                Insurance, Social Security, and   National Health Insurance     ADB,
                (HEF) in five districts   Insurance schemes; and included           Civil Service Schemes to Health   to the Prime Minister’s       AFD
                                          similar data for Social Security and      Financing Technical Working       Office, and initiates pilot
                MOH established           Civil Service Schemes provided by         Group as step toward              of merger of health
                Health Financing          MLW                                       development of Health             protection schemes as part
                Technical Working                                                   Financing Strategy                of the Health Financing
                Group and held regular                                                                                Strategy implementation.
                meetings
                                                                                    MOH submitted the Health
                                                                                    Financing Strategy to the
                                                                                                                      MOH makes public the
                                                                                    MOH Steering Committee for
                                                                                                                      first National Health
                                                                                    consideration after due
                                                                                                                      Statistics Report
                                                                                    consultation with Ministry of
                                                                                    Labor and Social Welfare,
                                          MOH approved the National Health          MOF, MPI and other
                                          Information Strategic Plan,               concerned line ministries and
                                          consolidated HMIS data in a single        agencies, and development
                MOH reviewed HMIS         computer system in the Division of        partners on March 22, 2010
                strategy and              Statistics, and prepares an outline of                                                                    WB
                implementation plan.      National Health Statistics Report         MOH made consolidated HMIS                                      WHO
                                                                                    data publicly available                                         ADB
                                                                                                                                                    Luxembourg
                                                                                                                                                    EC




                                                                                   68
                                               ANNEX 3: CORE PRSO RESULT INDICATORS




                                                                                                                                   2011 (Target
                                                        Indicator
                      PRSO4-7




                                                                                                                                      year)
                                                                                            2006



                                                                                                     2007


                                                                                                             2008


                                                                                                                     2009


                                                                                                                            2010
                                                                                                                                                  Sources of   Other
Policy area           Prior actions   Outcomes                      Name
                                                                                                                                                  data         provided TA
                      and Actions


Component 1. Investment Climate, Competitiveness and Business Development

                                                                                                                                                               ADB's Private
                      Prior action                                                                                                                Doing        Sector and
                                                        1                                  163      103     103     100     100      70                        SME
                      1.                                                                                                                          Business
                                                                                                                                                               Development
                                      Streamlined
      Create                                                                                                                                                   Program, EC's
                                      regulations for
      enabling                                                                                                                                                 SME
                                      setting up and
      business        Licenses                                      Number of days                                                                             Development
                                      operating a
1.1   environment                                                   to start-up a                                                                              Program, IFC-
                                      business; more                                                                                                WB
      and attract                                                   business [a]                                                                               MPDF TA to
                                      quality                                                                                                     Vientiane
      quality                                           2                                  183      145     145     145              70                        Enterprise
                                      investment                                                                                                   Office
      Investment                                                                                                                                               Law, IFC-
                      Investment      attracted                                                                                                   estimate     MPDF-FIAS
                      law                                                                                                                                      TA to
                                                                                                                                                               Investment
                                                                                                                                                               Law
                                                                    Number of days                                                                             WB Customs
                      Prior action                                                                          50,     50,     48,                   Doing        and Trade
                                                        3           to export and         66, 78   50, 50                          32, 33
                      2.                                                                                    50      50      50                    Business     Facilitation
      Reduce trade                                                  import
                                                                                                                                                               Project, Trade
      barriers and
                      Trade                                                                                                                                    Development
      proceed with
                      facilitation    Streamlined                                                                                                              Facility -WB
      implementati
1.2                   Master plan     cross-border                  Number of                                                                                  Administered
      on of
                                      procedures                    documents to                                            9,                    Doing        Multi-Donor
      international                                     4                                 12, 16   9, 10    9, 10   9, 10           7, 8
                                                                    export and                                              10                    Business     Trust Fund
      and regional
                      Customs                                       import                                                                                     with initial
      agreements
                      clearance                                                                                                                                contributions
                      procedures                                                                                                                               from Australia
                                                                                                                                                               and EC




                                                                                     69
                                                                                                                                          2011 (Target
                                                         Indicator
                     PRSO4-7




                                                                                                                                             year)
                                                                                                2006



                                                                                                         2007


                                                                                                                  2008


                                                                                                                          2009


                                                                                                                                  2010
                                                                                                                                                         Sources of   Other
Policy area          Prior actions   Outcomes                        Name
                                                                                                                                                         data         provided TA
                     and Actions

                     Restructuring
                     plans for
                     Phase II and
                     Phase III                                                                                                                           BPO
                     SOEs                                            ratio of the total                                                                  reports,
      Improve the
                                                                     losses to total                             0.00                    reduced         Assessment
      performance                                        5                                     4.8%    3.40%              -                                           WB Financial
                     Reforms in      Reduced SOE                     profits of central                          1%                      by 20%          reports by
      and                                                                                                                                                             Management
                     SOEs            losses, greater                 SOEs                                                                                SOE FM
      monitoring                                                                                                                                                      Capacity
1.3                                  transparency and                                                                                                    Dept.
      of state-                                                                                                                                                       Building
                                     commercial
      owned          Statistics on                                                                                                                                    Project, PHRD
                                     viability of SOEs
      enterprises    SOE                                                                                                                                              Grant, Japan
      (SOEs)         performance
                                                                     Stock of arrears                             K        K       K
                     Prior                                           for electricity                    K140     118      96     38.9                    MOF and
                                                                                           K134 bn
                                                         6           consumption                         bn       bn      Bn      bn       zero          EDL
                     action 3.                                                             (05/06)
                                                                     from GOL                          (06/07)   (07/    (08/    (09/                    reports
                                                                     agencies to EDL                             08)     09)     10)*

                     Prior                                           % of SOCBs
                                                                     NPL from new                                                         reduced
                     action 4.                                                                                   1.69    1.34                             External
                                                         7           loans since 2003          8.10%   4.20%                             to below
                                                                                                                  %       %                                Audits
      Enhance                                                        (of Total Loans)                                                       5%
                     Audits of                                       (1.6% in 2003)                                                                                   FC-MPDF,
      commercializ
                     SOCBs                                                                                                                                            WB Financial
      ation and
                                     More modern                                                                                                                      Sector TA,
      transparency   Evaluation
                                     and better                                                                                                                       WB Financial
1.4   of State-      reports on 3
                                     performing                                                                                                                       Management
      owned          SOCBs
                                     banking sector                                                                                                                   Capacity
      commercial     BOL Action                                      Concentration of                                                                                 Building
      banks          Plan for the                                    top 10 accounts                             44.2                    reduced
                                                         8                                 37.70%      30.52%                                               BOL       Project
      (SOCBs)        Financial                                       on "flow", (% of                            1%                      by 30%
                     Sector                                          total credit)
                     Strategy
                     Prior
                     action 5.


                                                                                          70
                                                                                                                                              2011 (Target
                                                              Indicator
                       PRSO4-7




                                                                                                                                                 year)
                                                                                                   2006



                                                                                                             2007


                                                                                                                    2008


                                                                                                                            2009


                                                                                                                                   2010
                                                                                                                                                             Sources of    Other
Policy area            Prior actions    Outcomes                          Name
                                                                                                                                                             data          provided TA
                       and Actions


Component 2. Public Finance Management, Capacity and Improving Service Delivery

2.1   Improved         Regular          Improved              9           PI-1 Aggregate       -          C [b]            B [c]          B                  Note: [b]     FMCBP -
      credibility of   update on        credibility of                    expenditure out-                                                                   2007          World Bank,
      budget           PFMSP            budget planning,                  turn compared to                                                                   ratings are   PRSO4-7
      planning,        Program          and enhancing                     original                                                                           joint MOF     PHRD Grant,
      and              document;        transparency and                  approved budget                                                                    and Bank      JICA Capacity
      enhancing        Budget norms     comprehensivene                                                                                                      staff         Building
      transparency     for education    ss of budget                                                                                                         retroactive   Project, and
      and              and health;      reporting                                                                                                            assessment    PFMSP
      comprehensi      Publication of                                                                                                                        using         MDTF (EC,
      veness of        budget plan                                                                                                                           PEFA          SIDA, SDC,
      budget           and outturns                                                                                                                          methodolo     AudAID)
      reporting                                                                                                                                              gy. [c]
                                                              10          PI-24 Quality                                                                      tentative
                                                                          and timeliness of                                 C+                               results of
                                                                                                   -      C+ [b]                               C+            2009 PEFA
                                                                          in-year budget                                    [c]
                                                                          reports                                                                            Assessment

                                                                          Dimension (i)                      C              C                    C
                                                                          Dimension (ii)                     B              A                    A
                                                                          Dimension (iii)                    C              C                    B
2.2   Improved         Debt             Improved              11
      transparency     monitoring       transparency of                   PI-6
      of the           and reporting;   the                               Comprehensiven
      intergovern      Public           intergovernmenta                  ess of
      mental fiscal    Investment       l fiscal relations,               information              -       B [b]           B[c]                  A
      relations,       Law; Capacity    and faster budget                 included in
      and faster       building on      execution                         budget
      budget           procurement                                        documentation
      execution




                                                                                              71
                                                                                                                                         2011 (Target
                                                          Indicator
                     PRSO4-7




                                                                                                                                            year)
                                                                                                2006



                                                                                                          2007


                                                                                                                  2008


                                                                                                                          2009


                                                                                                                                 2010
                                                                                                                                                        Sources of   Other
Policy area          Prior actions    Outcomes                        Name
                                                                                                                                                        data         provided TA
                     and Actions

                                                          12
                                                                      PI-8
                                                                      Transparency of
                                                                                                                           D
                                                                      Inter-                    -       D [b]                             D+
                                                                                                                          [c]
                                                                      Governmental
                                                                      Fiscal Relations

2.3   Improving      Prior action 6   Improved            13
      the                             timeliness of
                                                                      PI-10 Public
      timeliness                      external audit
                                                                      Access to key
      and quality                     and increase                                              -       C [b]            C [c]              B
                                                                      fiscal
      of financial                    contestability in
                                                                      information
      audits                          public
                                      procurement
                     SAO capacity                         14          PI-16
                     building plan                                    Predictability in
                                                                      the availability                                   B+
                                                                                                -       B [b]                             B+
                                                                      of funds for                                       [c]
                                                                      commitment of
                                                                      expenditures
                                                                      Dimension (i)                       B               B                 B
                                                                      Dimension (ii)                      B               B                 A
                                                                      Dimension (iii)                     B               B                 B
                                                                      PI-26 Scope,
                                                                      nature and                                         D+
                                                          15                                    -       D [b]                             D+
                                                                      follow-up of                                       [c]
                                                                      external audit
                     Civil service
                                                                      Recurrent
                     reform           Improved
        Improving                                                     education
                     strategy         management,
         service                                                      expenditure as %                           12      13.3
                     costed and       allocation and                                        14.4       12.8                                             Official
2.4      delivery                                         16          of total recurrent                         (07/    (08/           Increase
                     prioritized      monitoring of                                         (05/06)    (06/07)                                          Gazette
       (Education                                                     expenditure                                08)     09)
                     annual           education
       and Health)                                                    (domestic)
                     Education        expenditures
                                                                      (Actual)
                     workplan

                                                                                           72
                                                                                                                                 2011 (Target
                                                    Indicator
              PRSO4-7




                                                                                                                                    year)
                                                                                       2006



                                                                                                 2007


                                                                                                         2008


                                                                                                                 2009


                                                                                                                         2010
                                                                                                                                                Sources of   Other
Policy area   Prior actions    Outcomes                         Name
                                                                                                                                                data         provided TA
              and Actions

              FY2010/11



              Budget
              allocation for
              textbooks
              distribution
              per student in
              FY 2010/11

              school block
              grants decree
                                                                % of provinces
                                                                that submit
                                                                complete EMIs                 82                                                  EMIS,
                                                    17                                  -               76      94      88      Increase
                                                                information by                (06/07)                                             MOE
              Education
                                                                end of December
              Year Book
                                                                each year
              publication


              Assessment of
              health           Improved access                                                                                                               Support
              financing        to health care and                                                                                                            through WB
              schemes for      financial                        % of districts                                                                               health project
              development      protection                       that submit                             60      80       92                                  and capacity
                                                                                              20
              of Health        effective            18          HMIS                    -               (07/    (08/    (09/    Increase        MOH          development
                                                                                              (06/07)
              Financing        performance                      information to                          08)     09)     10)                                  by ADB,
              Strategy         monitoring for                   MOH on time                                                                                  WHO, EC
                               health sector                                                                                                                 (TBD), and
              Prior action 7   policy.                                                                                                                       others.




                                                                                  73
                                                                                                                                          2011 (Target
                                                             Indicator
                       PRSO4-7




                                                                                                                                             year)
                                                                                                 2006



                                                                                                           2007


                                                                                                                   2008


                                                                                                                           2009


                                                                                                                                  2010
                                                                                                                                                         Sources of   Other
Policy area            Prior actions    Outcomes                         Name
                                                                                                                                                         data         provided TA
                       and Actions


                                                                         Recurrent health
                       HMIS                                              expenditure as %                         3.29    3.53
                                                                                             3.65       3.55                                             Official
                       implementatio                        19           of total recurr.                         (07/    (08/           Increase
                                                                                             (05/06)    (06/07)                                          Gazette
                       n                                                 exp. (domestic)                          08)      09
                                                                         (Actual)


Note:
[a] Number of days to start up a business. This source has been changed from Doing Business report (163 days) to WB staff calculations (175 days) because the latter includes
      investment license acquisition, which takes about 60 days, and is excluded in the Doing Business report.
[b]    Bank staff and government self assessment using public expenditure and financial assessment (PEFA) methodology
[c]    Final PEFA score for 2009
 *    estimates, subject to bill verification between MOF and EDL




                                                                                            74
                                         ANNEX 4: INDICATORS FOR GENERAL MONITORING

                            PRSO7




                                                           Indicator




                                                                                                                                 2011 (Target
                                                                                        2006



                                                                                                 2007



                                                                                                          2008



                                                                                                                  2009



                                                                                                                         2010
                             Prior                                                                                                              Sources of     Other
      Policy area                         Outcome                      Name *
                          actions and                                                                                                           data           provided TA
                            Actions




                                                                                                                                 year)
  Component 1. Investment Climate, Competitiveness and Business Development
                                                                                                                                                               ADB's Private
                          Prior action                                                                                                                         Sector and
                               1.                                                                                                                              SME
                                          Streamlined                                                                                                          Development
                                          regulations                                                                                                          Program, EC's
      Create enabling     Licenses        for setting up               Number of                                                                  National     SME
                                                                                                                                increase
      business                            and                          businesses                                                                Enterprise    Development
                                                                                                                                by 10%
1.1   environment and                     operating a      1           registered                                                               Registration   Program, IFC-
                                                                                               32,763   47,320                     per
      attract quality                     business;                    with tax                                                                 Office, Tax    MPDF TA to
                                                                                                                                 annum
      Investment                          more quality                 authority [a]                                                            Dept (MOF)     Enterprise
                                          investment                                                                                                           Law, IFC-
                           Investment     attracted                                                                                                            MPDF-FIAS
                              law                                                                                                                              TA to
                                                                                                                                                               Investment
                                                                                                                                                               Law
                                                                                                                                                               WB Customs
                          Prior action                                                                                                                         and Trade
                               2.                                                                                                                              Facilitation
      Reduce trade                                                                                                                                             Project, Trade
      barriers and        Trade                                                                                                                                Development
                                                                       Total Trade                                              min
      proceed with        facilitation    Streamlined                                                                                                          Facility -WB
                                                                       as                               75%      72.8%          annual
1.2   implementation of   Master plan     cross-border     2                           69%      75%                                                MOIC        Administered
                                                                       percentage                        [b]      [b]           growth
      international and                   procedures                                                                                                           Multi-Donor
                                                                       of GDP                                                   2.5%
      regional                                                                                                                                                 Trust Fund
      agreements          Customs                                                                                                                              with initial
                          clearance                                                                                                                            contributions
                          procedures                                                                                                                           from Australia
                                                                                                                                                               and EC




                                                                                       75
                            PRSO7




                                                         Indicator




                                                                                                                                   2011 (Target
                                                                                       2006



                                                                                                2007



                                                                                                         2008



                                                                                                                 2009



                                                                                                                          2010
                             Prior                                                                                                                Sources of   Other
      Policy area                         Outcome                    Name *
                          actions and                                                                                                             data         provided TA
                            Actions




                                                                                                                                   year)
                             Prior
                            action 4.


                          Audits of
                                                                                                                                                               FC-MPDF,
                          SOCBs
      Enhance                             More                                                                                                                 WB Financial
                                                                      % share of
      commercialization                   modern and                                                                                                           Sector TA, WB
                          Evaluation                                   credit to                                                  not less
      and transparency                    better                                                                                                               Financial
1.4                       reports on 3                   3              private      78.7%    83.3%     77.9%   76.9%   75.7%      than              BOL
      of State-owned                      performing                                                                                                           Management
                          SOCBs                                      sector (78%                                                   80%
      commercial banks                    banking                                                                                                              Capacity
                                                                     in 2003) [c]
      (SOCBs)                             sector                                                                                                               Building
                          BOL Action                                                                                                                           Project
                          Plan for the
                          Financial
                          Sector
                          Strategy
                          Prior
                          action 5.

 Component 2. Public Finance Management, Capacity and Improving Service Delivery

                          Civil service                                                                                                                        Support to
                                                                     Average
                          reform          Improved                                                                                                             EMIS through
                                                                     student/textb
                          strategy        management,                                                                                                          WB project
      Improving service                                              ook ratio in
                          costed and      allocation                                                                                                           and capacity
          delivery                                                   47 priority                4.7                               Decreas
2.4                       prioritized     and            4                                -              1.7     1.6    1.4 [d]                   EMIS, MOE    development
       (Education and                                                districts, %             (06/07)                                e
                          annual          monitoring                                                                                                           by AusAID,
          Health)                                                    (average for
                          Education       of education                                                                                                         EC (TBD),
                                                                     3 types of
                          workplan        expenditures                                                                                                         AFD, and
                                                                     books)
                          FY2010/11                                                                                                                            ADB




                                                                                     76
                PRSO7




                                             Indicator




                                                                                                                         2011 (Target
                                                                        2006



                                                                                  2007



                                                                                            2008



                                                                                                      2009



                                                                                                                2010
                 Prior                                                                                                                  Sources of     Other
Policy area                  Outcome                     Name *
              actions and                                                                                                               data           provided TA
                Actions




                                                                                                                         year)
              Budget
              allocation
              for                                        Recurrent
              textbooks                                  education
              distribution                               budget as %
              per student                                                                                                               Budget
                                                         of total
                                                                                            14.1      12.2      14.0                    Summary, ref
              in FY                          5           recurrent          -      -                                    Increase
              2010/11                                                                     (07/08)   (08/09)   (09/10)                   Component
                                                         budget
                                                                                                                                        2.1
                                                         (domestic,
              school block                               allocation)
              grants                                     (Plan)
              decree

                                                         % of total
                                                         primary
                                                         school
              Education
                                                         enrollments              28.4                         31.1                     Calc on
              Year Book                      6                              -              29.6      30.4               Increase
                                                         accounted              (06/07)                         [d]                     EMIS
              publication
                                                         for by 47
                                                         priority
                                                         districts
                             Improved                    % of
                             access to                   population
              Assessment
                             health care                 enrolled in
              of health
                             and financial               HEFs,                                                                                         Possible
              financing                                                                                                 Monitor
                             protection                  CBHI, SSO,                                                                                    support
              schemes for                                                         9.21                                  ed
                             effective       7           CSS and            -              10.6      12.6      13.2                     MOH, MLW       through PHRD
              development                                                       (06/07)                                 regularl
                             performance                 other                                                                                         (under
              of Health                                                                                                 y
                             monitoring                  prepayment                                                                                    consideration)
              Financing
                             for health                  and
              Strategy
                             sector                      subsidized
                             policy.                     schemes




                                                                       77
                                 PRSO7




                                                                  Indicator




                                                                                                                                                 2011 (Target
                                                                                                2006



                                                                                                          2007



                                                                                                                    2008



                                                                                                                              2009



                                                                                                                                        2010
                                  Prior                                                                                                                         Sources of     Other
        Policy area                            Outcome                        Name *
                               actions and                                                                                                                      data           provided TA
                                 Actions




                                                                                                                                                 year)
                                                                              Outpatient
                                                                                                                                                                               Support
                                                                              visits p/c for
                                                                                                                                                                               through WB
                                                                              general                     0.24
                                                                  8                                 -              0.25      0.26      0.32     Increase        MOH / HSIP     health project
                                                                              population                (06/07)
                                                                                                                                                                               and capacity
                                                                              (7 south
                               Prior action                                                                                                                                    development
                                                                              provinces)
                                    7                                                                                                                                          by ADB,
                                                                              Number of
                                                                                                                                                                               WHO, EC
                                                                              health                                                                            MOH
                                                                                                                                                                               (TBD), and
                                                                  9           personnel in          -    1644      1866      1998     2106      Increase        personnel
                                                                                                                                                                               others.
                                                                              47 priority                                                                       records
                                                                              districts [e]
                                                                              Recurrent
                                                                              health
                                                                              budget as %
                                                                                                                                                                Budget
                               HMIS                                           of total                                                          Increase
                                                                                                                    3.9       3.7       4.0                     Summary, ref
                               implementat                       10           recurrent             -      -                                    3.99
                                                                                                                  (07/08)   (08/09)   (09/10)                   Component
                               ion                                            budget                                                            (10/11)
                                                                                                                                                                2.1
                                                                              (dom.,
                                                                              allocation)
                                                                              (Plan)
Note:
 *      (Italics: General Indicators. Underlined: Indicators for EC Variable Tranche)
[a]     Because of lack of reliable central enterprise registration data, the number of businesses registered with tax authority is used as an alternative
[b]     Actual data. The earlier version was preliminary estimates
[c]     Source: revised based on monetary survey
[d]     2009/10 estimates.
[e]     Include finance, accounting, and administrative officers, excludes logistic officers and housekeepers.




                                                                                               78
                                            ANNEX 5: LAO PDR AT A GLANCE

Lao PDR at a glance                                                                                                                                                         4/22/11

                                                                                        East
Ke y D e v e lo pm e nt Indic a t o rs                                    Lao        A sia &          Lo w
                                                                         P DR        P acific      inco me           Age distribution, 2008
(2009)
                                                                                                                                             Male                            Female

P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                         6.3        1,930          976           75-79
Surface area (tho usand sq. km)                                            237        16,299        19,313
                                                                                                                    60-64
P o pulatio n gro wth (%)                                                   1.9           0.7           2.1
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                              32            44            29          45-49

                                                                                                                    30-34
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                         5.6           5,102        510
                                                                                                                    15-19
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                      890            2,644        523
GNI per capita (P P P , internatio nal $ )                              2,050             5,426      1,355               0-4

                                                                                                                                10                  5           0             5             10
GDP gro wth (%)                                                             7.5             8.0        6.3
                                                                                                                                              percent of total population
GDP per capita gro wth (%)                                                  5.5             7.2        4.1

( m o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e , 2 0 0 3 – 2 0 0 9 )                                                            Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)

P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , %)
                                  .25                                       44               17         ..          180
                                                                                                                    160
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 2.00 a day (P P P , %)                      77               39         ..          140
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                            64               72        59           120
                                                                                                                    100
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                   59               23        76            80
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                 ..              12        27            60
                                                                                                                     40
                                                                                                                     20
A dult literacy, male (% o f ages 1 and o lder)
                                   5                                        82              96         76             0

                                     5
A dult literacy, female (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                           63              90         63                                   1990        1995         2000         2007
Gro ss primary enro llment, male (% o f age gro up)                        124              12
                                                                                             1        105                              Lao PDR                  East Asia & Pacific
Gro ss primary enro llment, female (% o f age gro up)                      109               1
                                                                                            13         97
                                                                                                                                       Real GDP growth          GDP per capita growth
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                  51               87        67          9.0
A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)            49               66        38          8.5
                                                                                                                   8.0
                                                                                                                   7.5
                                                                                                                   7.0
Lo ng- T e rm E c o no m ic T re nds                       19 8 0        19 9 0       2000          2009           6.5
                                                                                                                   6.0
Co nsumer prices (annual % change)                                 ..     35.9             23.1        0.1         5.5
GDP implicit deflato r (annual % change)                           ..     37.9             25.1        0.5
                                                                                                                   5.0
                                                                                                                               2005         2006        2007        2008     2009        2010 
Exchange rate (annual average, lo cal per US$ )               10.2         708            7,878      8,516
                                                                                                                    19 8 0 – 9 0 19 9 0 – 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 – 0 9
                                                                                                                           (average annual gro wth %)
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                            3.1          4.1              5.2       6.3                        2.5                       2.4                   2.1
GDP (US$ millio ns)                                              ..        866            1,735      6,107                       3.8                        6.2                   7.0
                                                                           (% o f GDP )
A griculture                                                       ..     61.2             52.5       31.7                       3.5                       3.9                    3.5
Industry                                                           ..     14.5             22.9       28.9                       6.1                        1
                                                                                                                                                           1 .3                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                  1 .4
  M anufacturing                                                   ..     10.0             17.0       10.4                       8.9                        1
                                                                                                                                                           1 .5                   9.3
Services                                                           ..     24.3             24.6       39.4                       3.3                       6.9                    7.4

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                        ..     78.3             79.1       70.3                             ..                 41.2                16.0
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                     ..     19.0              6.7       10.5                             ..                 29.3                24.0
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                         ..     21.8             14.1       26.9                       5.4                      31.4                25.0

Expo rts o f go o ds and services                                  ..       12               30        29                              ..                 19.4                 14.7
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                  ..       25               44        37                              ..                 13.4                 15.6
Gro ss savings                                                     ..        3               18        19                              ..                    ..                13.5


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2009 data are preliminary. Gro up data are thro ugh 2008. .. indicates data are no t available.

a. A id data are fo r 2008.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).


                                                                          79
                                                                                                                                                                                Lao PDR

B a la nc e o f P a ym e nt s a nd T ra de                              2000            2009
                                                                                                    Governance indicators, 2000 and 2008
(US$ millio ns)
To tal merchandise expo rts (fo b)                                         342          1,436
To tal merchandise impo rts (cif)                                          718          2,424        Voice and accountability
Net trade in go o ds and services                                         -244           -787
                                                                                                             Political stability
Current acco unt balance                                                   -179          -857
 as a % o f GDP                                                           -10.3          -14.0             Regulatory quality

                                                                                                                    Rule of law
Wo rkers' remittances and
 co mpensatio n o f emplo yees (receipts)                                        1         1
                                                                                                         Control of corruption

Reserves, including go ld                                                   127          633
                                                                                                                                   0        25           50           75          100

                                                                                                             2008                      Country's percentile rank (0-100)
C e nt ra l G o v e rnm e nt F ina nc e                                                                                                  higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                             2000

(% o f GDP )
Current revenue (including grants)                                         16.4          15.9      Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank

 Tax revenue                                                               10.5          12.2
Current expenditure                                                         7.8          10.9
                                                                                                 T e c hno lo gy a nd Inf ra s t ruc t ure                        2000           2008
Overall surplus/deficit                                                    -4.7          -6.7
                                                                                                 P aved ro ads (% o f to tal)                                      44.5           13.4
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                                    Fixed line and mo bile pho ne
 Individual                                                                    ..           ..                        00
                                                                                                  subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                              1            35
 Co rpo rate                                                                   ..           ..   High techno lo gy expo rts
                                                                                                  (% o f manufactured expo rts)                                            ..               ..
E xt e rna l D e bt a nd R e s o urc e F lo ws
                                                                                                 E nv iro nm e nt
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                   2,459          5,689    A gricultural land (% o f land area)                                   8               9
To tal debt service                                                         84            293    Fo rest area (% o f land area)                                      54.4              ..
Debt relief (HIP C, M DRI)                                                   –              –    Terrestrial pro tected areas (% o f surface area)                      ..          15.9

To tal debt (% o f GDP )                                                129.9            01
                                                                                        1 .5     Freshwater reso urces per capita (cu. meters)                  34,009           30,683
To tal debt service (% o f expo rts)                                       1
                                                                          1 .7           15.6    Freshwater withdrawal (billio n cubic meters)                       3.0              ..

Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)                                   139          537     CO2 emissio ns per capita (mt)                                      0.20         0.24
P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                                            ..           ..
                                                                                                 GDP per unit o f energy use
                                                                                                  (2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                                ..               ..
  Composition of total external debt, 2008
                                                                                                 Energy use per capita (kg o f o il equivalent)                            ..               ..
                                            IBRD, 0
                            Short-term, 0                IDA, 679

                                                                        IMF, 21
                                                                                                 Wo rld B a nk G ro up po rt f o lio                              2000           2008

           Private, 2,452                                               Other multi-             (US$ millio ns)
                                                                       lateral, 1,129

                                                                                                 IB RD
                                                                                                  To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                   0             0
                                                                                                  Disbursements                                                            –             –
                                                                                                  P rincipal repayments                                                    0            0
                                                      Bilateral, 917
                                                                                                  Interest payments                                                        0            0

  US$ millions                                                                                   IDA
                                                                                                  To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                             403            679
                                                                                                  Disbursements                                                       20             17
P riv a t e S e c t o r D e v e lo pm e nt                              2000            2009      To tal debt service                                                  7             19

Time required to start a business (days)                                      –          1 00    IFC (fiscal year)
Co st to start a business (% o f GNI per capita)                              –          12.3     To tal disbursed and o utstanding po rtfo lio                            2            13
Time required to register pro perty (days)                                    –          1 35      o f which IFC o wn acco unt                                             2            13
                                                                                                  Disbursements fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                     1            10
Ranked as a majo r co nstraint to business                              2000            2008      P o rtfo lio sales, prepayments and
 (% o f managers surveyed who agreed)                                                              repayments fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                       0                2
  n.a.                                                                         ..           ..
  n.a.                                                                         ..           ..   M IGA
                                                                                                  Gro ss expo sure                                                         –            89
Sto ck market capitalizatio n (% o f GDP )                                     ..           ..    New guarantees                                                           0            0
B ank capital to asset ratio (%)                                               ..           ..


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2008 data are preliminary.                                                                                4/22/11
.. indicates data are no t available. – indicates o bservatio n is no t applicable.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).
                                                                                            80
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                                    Lao PDR


With selected targets to achieve b etween 1990 and 2015
(estimate clo sest to date sho wn, +/- 2 years)                                                                                                 La o P D R


G o a l 1: ha lv e t he ra t e s f o r e xt re m e po v e rt y a nd m a lnut rit io n                                19 9 0                    19 9 5                 2000       2008
 P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1   .25 a day (P P P , % o f po pulatio n)                                          55.7                      49.3                   44.0           ..
 P o verty headco unt ratio at natio nal po verty line (% o f po pulatio n)                                                ..                  45.0                   38.6        25.9
 Share o f inco me o r co nsumptio n to the po o rest qunitile (%)                                                    9.6                       7.6                        ..        ..
 P revalence o f malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                                                    ..                        ..                40.4          ..


G o a l 2 : e ns ure t ha t c hildre n a re a ble t o c o m ple t e prim a ry s c ho o ling
 P rimary scho o l enro llment (net, %)                                                                                    62                          ..                 82       84
 P rimary co mpletio n rate (% o f relevant age gro up)                                                                     45                         ..                 69        75
 Seco ndary scho o l enro llment (gro ss, %)                                                                                24                        26                  34        44
 Yo uth literacy rate (% o f peo ple ages 15-24)                                                                              ..                      71                   ..         ..


G o a l 3 : e lim ina t e ge nde r dis pa rit y in e duc a t io n a nd e m po we r wo m e n
 Ratio o f girls to bo ys in primary and seco ndary educatio n (%)                                                         76                             ..              81       84
 Wo men emplo yed in the no nagricultural secto r (% o f no nagricultural emplo yment)                                          ..                        ..               ..         ..
 P ro po rtio n o f seats held by wo men in natio nal parliament (%)                                                            6                     9                   21         29


G o a l 4 : re duc e unde r- 5 m o rt a lit y by t wo - t hirds
 Under-5 mo rtality rate (per 1 ,000)                                                                                      163                        131                101        84
 Infant mo rtality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                                            120                        99                 77         62
 M easles immunizatio n (pro po rtio n o f o ne-year o lds immunized, %)                                                    32                        68                 42        42


G o a l 5 : re duc e m a t e rna l m o rt a lit y by t hre e - f o urt hs
 M aternal mo rtality ratio (mo deled estimate, per 1     00,000 live births)                                                   ..                        ..            650             ..
 B irths attended by skilled health staff (% o f to tal)                                                                        ..                        ..            19              ..
 Co ntraceptive prevalence (% o f wo men ages 1         5-49)                                                                   ..                25                     32             ..


G o a l 6 : ha lt a nd be gin t o re v e rs e t he s pre a d o f H IV / A ID S a nd o t he r m a jo r dis e a s e s
 P revalence o f HIV (% o f po pulatio n ages 1  5-49)                                                              ..                                 0.1                0.1      0.2
 Incidence o f tuberculo sis (per 100,000 peo ple)                                                               179                                  170                162       157
 Tuberculo sis case detectio n rate (%, all fo rms)                                                               24                                   10                 25         44


G o a l 7 : ha lv e t he pro po rt io n o f pe o ple wit ho ut s us t a ina ble a c c e s s t o ba s ic ne e ds
 A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                                                      ..                                   41                   ..       51
 A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)                                                ..                                   13                24         49
 Fo rest area (% o f to tal land area)                                                                        75.0                                      ..              54.4           ..
 Terrestrial pro tected areas (% o f surface area)                                                               ..                                     ..                 ..      15.9
 CO2 emissio ns (metric to ns per capita)                                                                       0.1                                   0.1                0.2       0.2
 GDP per unit o f energy use (co nstant 2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                                 ..                                    ..                  ..          ..


G o a l 8 : de v e lo p a glo ba l pa rt ne rs hip f o r de v e lo pm e nt
                               00
 Telepho ne mainlines (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                      0.2                     0.3                   0.8         2.1
                                     00
 M o bile pho ne subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                               0.0                     0.0                   0.2       32.6
                        00
 Internet users (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                            0.0                       ..                  0.1        8.5
                               00
 P erso nal co mputers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                       ..                   0.1                    0.3       1.7



        Measles immunization (% of 1-year olds)                                      ICT indicators (per 100 people)

        100                                                                          40

         75                                                                          30

         50                                                                          20

         25                                                                          10

          0                                                                          0

                      1990       1995      2000      2007                                    2000         2002             2004           2006                 2008


                  Lao PDR               East Asia & Pacific                                   Fixed + mobile subscribers             Internet users




No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. .. indicates data are no t available.                                                                     4/22/11

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).



                                                                                81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33431
                100°E                                                        102°E                                                  104°E                                                    106°E                                            108°E
                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                        CHINA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LAO P.D.R.
                                                      To
                                                   Lincang

                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                    Gejiu
                                        To
                                       Daluo
                                                                           Gnot-Ou

                                                                                       Ou
     22°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          22°N

                                                                               Phongsaly
                                                          Boun-Nua

                                                                            PHONGSALY
                                                                            PHONGSALY
MYANMAR                                                                                                                                       VIET NA M
                                     LUANG
                                                                                                Muang
                                    NAMTHA                                                      Khoa
                                                Luang                                                                                                      To
                                               Namtha                                                                                                      Hanoi
                     g
                    kon




                               Meung                          Muang                                                             Xiangkho
                          BOKEO
                 Me




                                                                Xai                         Nambak
                                                                                            u
                                                               ng                                                           Sam-Neva
                                                                                        O




                               Ban     Ta                    Be                        LUANG                                                  Viangxai
                               Huaisai
                                            OUDOMSAI                                  PHRABANG                              HOUAPHAN
To Chiang Rai




                                                                           Xiangkhoang Plateau                                                                                                                                                     20°N
                                                  Pakbeng                             Luang
                                                                                      Phrabang
                                     SAYABOURY
                                     SAYABOURY
                                     SAYABOURY                                                                               Kham
                                                                            Nan
                                                                                                  Plain of Jars
                                                                               Phokhoun                                 Xiang
                                                                                                                        Khoang
                                           Sayaboury                           Kasi
                                                                                                   XIANG
                                                                                                      KHOANG
                                                                                                              Phou Bia                                                                                                     Gulf of
                                                                              Vangviang                       (2,817 m)
                                                             Ban Nalé
                                                                 Nalé
                                                                                                          Xaisomboun
                                                                                                        Nam Ngum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tonkin
                                                                            VIENTIANE                   Reservoir
                                                                                                                                    BOLIKHAMSAI
                                                                                 Pone
                                                                      g          Hong                                          Paksane
                                                              n




                                                                  o
                                                             ek                                                                                          Khamkeut
                                               Paklay
                                                        M




                                                                                                                                                         Kadi
                                                                                                 VIENTIANE                                                    ng
                                                                                                                                     Me




     18°N                                            Xanakham                                                                                                                                                                                      18°N
                                                                                                                                       ko
                                                                                                                                         ng




                                                                                                     PREFECTURE OF                                 KHAMMOUANE
                                                                                                    VIENTIANE MUN.                                         Cammon Plateau
                                                                                                                                                                                          Ban Na Phan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                   Xe




                                                                                                                                                               Thakhek
                                                                                                                                                                                    e
                                                                                                                                                                                    e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Vinh
                                                                                                                                                                                    Ba




                                                                                                                                                                                        ng
                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                     a




                                                                             To                                                                                                              fai
                                                                          Khon Kaen                                                                                        N oy
                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                        Khon Kaen                                                   Xebangfai
                0            50           100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                      SAV
                                                                                                                                                                      SAVANNAKHETXepon
                                                                                                                                                                      SAVANNAKHET
                                                                                                                                                                    Xéno
                                                                                                                                                                    Xéno

                0         25         50         75       100 Miles                                            T HA ILA ND                                      Savannakhet                                Phin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Qui Nhon
                                                                                                                                                                                                      g
                                                                                                                                                                                  S e B a n g hio n                        Samouay

                           LAO PEOPLE'S                                                           16°N                                                                                                                                             16°N

                                                                                                                                                                                          SARAV Saravane
                                                                                                                                                                                          SARAVANE
                                                                                                                                                                                          SARAVANE
                           DEMOCRATIC                                                                                                                                                       on D

                             REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                          Khongxedon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEKONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sekong
                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                      Pakxong
                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                Ubon
                                  PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                          Ratchathani   CHAMPASSAK Bolovens
                                                                                                                                                                           CHAMPASSAK
                                                                                                                                                                           Champassak                            Plateau
                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                            Attapeu
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sanamxai
                                  RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                ATTAPEU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TTAPEU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ATTAPEU
                                  MAIN ROADS

                                  RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                   Khong

                                                                                                  14°N                                                                                                                                             14°N
                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                 CA MBO DIA
                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                    104°E                                                      106°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOVEMBER 2004
