                   International Development Association                                                      I

                                       FOR OFFICIAL LSE         O~LY

                                                                                                      68969
                                                                                 IDA/R78-117

From:    The President                                                          November      10~   1978


                                                INDONESIA

            Credit 479-IND - Proposed Amendment of Project Description
                        for the Bali Tourism Pro1ect*

1.        This memorandum seeks your approval for an amendment to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement dated June 14, 1974 (Credit 479-IND - Bali Tourism
Project) to permit expected savings of about $3 million from the credit of
$16 million to be used to finance   Government's equity participation and/or a
long-term loan for the construction of a hotel at Nusa Dua in Bali. The use
of savings for such facilities at Nusa Dua would help achieve the basic
objective of the Bali Tourism Project, which is to foster properly planned
tourism development on the island.

Project Scope and Status

2.         The Bali Tourism Project was appraised in 1973 and the credit was
made in FY74. The project provides infrastructure to promote tourism develop-
ment in Bali, including a 310 ha tourism estate at Nusa Dua (capable of
accommodating hotels with about 2,500 rooms), facilities for hotel training,
an access road from the airport, road improvements outside Nusa Dua to serve
both tourism and other transportation demands, and technical assistance for
implementing the project and the master plan for tourism in Bali.

3.         Despite a one-year delay in project implementation, mainly at its
inception, construction of the infrastructure for the tourism estate is
progressing satisfactorily and the work is due to be completed by late 1979.
The hotel training school has been completed and is in operation. The amenity
core and service area for the hotels are in the design stage and work is
scheduled for completion by late 1979. Construction of the Nusa Dua access
road and other road improvements has commenced and is due for completion in
December 1980. A 50-room practice hotel adjacent to the training school. not
included in the project and financed by the Bali Tourism Development Corporation
(BTDC) , the project entity, is under construction and scheduled to be completed
by late 1979. Electricity is available at the site and provision of telecom-
munications facilities is under way.

                                                                     *Questions on this document may
                                                                      be referred to Mr. C.R. DeSilva,
                                                                      extension 72555.
Distribution

Executive Directors and Alternates
Senior Vice President, Finance
Vice President, Operations
President's Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC


  This document has J restricted distribution dnd may be used by recipients only in the performance
  \)f Iheir offi(I:J1 Jutles [ts (Ontenh m~l\' not o'hc:rwise he disclosed without World Bank authonzation,
                                                                                                                  NOV 14 1978
                                                                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                   - 2 -



4.        At appraisal, total project cost was estimated at $36 million,
including $18.1 million in foreign exchange, of which the credit was to cover
$16 million. Provision for physical and price contingencies totaled about 30%
of project cost. It now appears, with about 80% of contracts for construction
of the infrastructure placed and substantial physical progress already made,
that the completed project will cost about $32 million, including $15 million
in foreign exchange. As a consequence, it is estimated that $3 million will
be left in the credit account at the time of project completion. These
savings are mainly the result of lower than anticipated cost escalation and
physical contingencies, of a decision by PERUMTEL, the state-owned telecommuni-
cations enterprise, not to request reimbursement of the construction cost of
its telecommunications facilities included in the project and of a reduction
in the scope of the road improvement works since some of the work has already
been executed using local road maintenance funds.

Hotel Investment Problems

5.        At the time the project was appraised in 1973, market prospects for
tourism were good, and several hotel investors had expressed their interest.
It was concluded that once the infrastructure was provided at Nusa Dua the
private hotel investment would be forthcoming. This prediction was further
reinforced by the Government's decision at that time, which was incorporated
in the Credit Agreement, to limit hotel development in Bali outside the project
at Nusa Dua to 1,600 hotel rooms of international standard. Accordingly, it
was decided that it was not necessary to include seed capital for hotel
development in the project.

6.        However, with the slowdown in tourist traffic growth following the
energy crisis in 1973, and a sizeable increase in the number of small hotels
(not meeting the criteria of international standard) since 1973, average
occupancies in hotels of international standard in Bali declined from 85% in
1973 to 52% in 1974 and 50% in 1975. During this period, the government was
implementing a restrictive air access policy favoring the national airline,
which required an extra stopover in Jakarta for many foreign flights; this
policy operated as a disincentive to tour operators and to potential airline
investors in hotels in Bali.

7.        Since 1975, market prospects have improved markedly. Tourist
traffic to Bali increased by 31% in 1976 and by a further 8% in 1977 to
286,000 visitors, in line with appraisal estimates, due mainly to the intro-
duction of new charter flights, and more frequent scheduled services mainly by
the national airlines. Average room occupancies of the five international
standard hotels rose from 50% in 1975 to 64% in 1977. With the continued
growth of international tourism in the Pacific area, prospective tourist
traffic to Bali is rapidly returning to the previously predicted growth
pattern. On the conservative assumption that tourist traffic to Bali will
grow at 8% p.a., at least 400 additional hotel rooms of international standard



    This d.ocum~nt h~ a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
    of their offiCial dulles. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                                                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                - 3 -



will be needed in Bali by 1980, and more each year thereafter. The 1,600-room
limit is now fully taken up by existing hotels with approximately 1,400 rooms
plus two hotel extensions, amounting to 200 rooms, under way. Since construction
of a hotel in Bali requires a minimum of two years, it will be difficult to
keep up with demand even if construction at Nusa Dua is initiated promptly.

8.        Despite the encouraging trends, however, an understandable reluctance
of hotel investors to commit themselves to "pioneering" the construction of a
first hotel in a new resort continues. Scarcity of hotel construction credit
on reasonable terms in Indonesia, high tariffs on imported hotel equipment,
cumbersome customs clearance procedures and continuing air access problems
reinforce this reluctance.

9.        In consultation with Bank staff the Government has identified a
number of actions to address the issue:

     (a)    use of funds saved on project implementation for Government parti-
            cipation in the financing of a hotel. This measure is the subject
            of this memorandum;

     (b)    identification of domestic long-term credit sources to assist in the
            f:lnancing of hotels. Such long-term credit facilities are parti-
            cularly inadequate in Indonesia. However, the Government is canvas-
            sing insurance companies to determine their willingness to provide
            long-term credit for hotel construction;

     (c)    relaxation of presently prohibitive customs duties on several items
            required for hotel operations and simplification of customs clearance
            procedures. The Minister of Tourism has requested BTDC to make
            specific proposals for lowering customs duties which will be
            presented to the Ministry of Finance for consideration. Closer
            contact between tourism and customs authorities in Bali has been
            established to achieve simplification of procedures;

     (d)    further liberalization of air policy with regard to access of
            foreign carriers to Bali. The Government has authorized two foreign
            airlines to fly to Bali (Quantas and Thai International) and has
            indicated it will consider requests from other foreign airlines;

     (e)    commissioning of a tourism market and hotel investment study for
            Nusa Dua. Such a study by consultants (Howarth & Howarth) in the
            first half of 1978 concluded that tourist traffic to Bali was likely
            to increase at a rate of 10% p.a. in the next few years which would
            justify the opening of at least a 450-room hotel in 1981 and a
            300-room hotel in 1982 at Nusa Dua;




    This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
    of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                                                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                   - 4 -


     (f)    hiring of investment promotion experts. The BTDC has already
            retained one investment promotion expert specialized in the US and
            Far East markets; it is searching for another to cover Europe and
            the Middle East;

     (g)    allowing one or two smaller hotels of 100-150 rooms to be built at
            Nusa Dua in addition to the project hotels of 250 or more rooms,
            with a view toward attracting "small" (Indonesian) investors. The
            Association supports this proposal from the Government;

     (h)    granting special promotional benefits to the first hotel investors
            at Nusa Dua. Such benefits were already granted in 1973/74 to
            promote construction of some of the existing hotels in Bali. The
            Government has indicated its willingness to grant special promotional
            benefits for initial hotel investments if they prove necessary
            during negotiations with hotel investors.

10.         Notwithstanding the constraints on hotel investments in Nusa Dua, a
number of groups of investors are exploring the possibility of coming into the
tourism estate. The Association, therefore, could play an important role as a
catalyst in providing funds to finance the government's contribution to the'
construction of a first hotel at the project site. In fact, it is precisely
because of the difficulties encountered with the "first hotel" in Bali's
project that the Bank has included funds in later tourism infrastructure
projects for a first or pilot hotel. This was done in Senegal (Loan No.
1412-T-SE/1413-SE), and in Mexico (Loan No. 1420-ME). The Bank has also
helped to overcome the lack of hotel credit on reasonable terms by financing a
line of credit for hotel development in the Ivory Coast (Loan No. 1124-IVC),
in Mexico (Loan No. 1524-ME), and in Morocco (Loans No. 848-MOR and 1279-MOR/
1077-MOR) •

 11.      Although implementation of the infrastructure facilities at Nusa
Dua is progressing well, the economic viability of the project is being
jeopardized by the lack of firm hotel investments. The economic rate of
return of the project is dependent upon revenues to be generated by hotels.
The appraisal report assumed a build-up of hotel rooms beginning with 800 in
1978 coinciding with the completion of infrastructure facilities, increasing
to 2,500 rooms by 1983. Project infrastructure is now expected to be ready by
end 1979. A recalculation of the project's rate of return, using the same
infrastructure costs and total revenues as assumed during appraisal and 40%
higher cost of superstructure gives an economic rate of return of the project
of 15.0% (as compared to the appraisal estimate of 18.7%). A two-year delay
in hotel construction would reduce the economic rate of return to 13.5%
and a four-year delay to 12.3%.




    This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
    of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                                                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                  - 5 -



 12.      The Borrower requests a change in the description of the original
project which would permit the use of the projected unexpended $3 million to
finance a Government investment for hotel construction. It is therefore
proposed to amend the Credit Agreement so as to provide for hotel construction
at Nusa Dua to be financed in part from the proceeds of the Credit, and to
postpone the date by which the Credit is expected to be closed to June 30,
1982.

Revised Project

 13.        The cost of a 300-room hotel at Nusa Dua is estimated at about
$14 million, of which the foreign exchange component would be about $9 million.
Savings in project implementation amounting to about $4 million (about $3 mil-
lion from the credit and $1 million from the originally anticipated Government
contribution) are expected to cover about 30% of total cost for such a hotel.
The balance would be raised either domestically or from abroad. In this con-
nection, IFC is prepared in principle to consider assistance in the financing
of a hotel at Nusa Dua. Immediate IDA assistance for hotel investment at Nusa
Dua would stimulate private investor interest in pioneering hotel construction
there, .'reduce the time that the completed infrastructure would be unutilized,
help the Government to generate revenues from the capital investment already
made at the project site and create circumstances in which the economic
viability of the project would be protected.

Recommendation

14.       In the absence of objections (which should be notified to the Vice
President and Secretary or Deputy Secretary, by the close of business on
November 22, 1978), I propose to amend the Credit Agreement for Credit
No. 479-IND to reflect the changes proposed in this memorandum.




                                                                Robert S. McNamara
                                                                  President




      This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
      of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
