CONFORMED COP!
CREDIT NUMBER 479 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Bali Tourism Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 14, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 479 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Bali Tourism Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 14, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BTDC" means P.T. Bali Tourism Development Corporation, a limited
liability company (perseroan terbatas) established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower;
(b)   "BTDB" means Bali Tourism     Development Board established by
Presidential Decree No. 26 of 1972 of the Borrower;
(c)   "PLN" means Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara, a public corporation
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(d)   "PERUMTEL" means Perusahaan Unum       Telekomunikasi, a public
corporation established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(e)   "Estate" means the tourism estate included in the Project; and
(f)   "Governing Laws" means the Charter of BTDC dated November 12,
1973 as published in the Borrower's Lembaran Negara and the Statement of
Objectives, referred to in Section 3.04(c) of this Agreement, concurred to by the
Association, all as amended with the concurrence of the Association.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower hereby designates the following representatives for the
purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section and Article V of the General Conditions:
(i)         BTDC for any such action under Categories I, II and III in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in respect of goods or services
required for Part A of the Project; and
(ii)        PERUMTFL for any such action under Category II in Schedule
1 to this Agreement, in respect of goods or services required
for the telecommunication facilities included in Part B.3 of the
Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.


﻿5
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1984, and ending April 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices as follows:
(a)   BTDC shall carry out Part A of the Project;
(b)   the roads included in Part B of the Project shall be constructed under
the responsibility of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Power;
(c)   the power facilities included in Part B    of the Project shall be
constructed by PLN;
(d)   the telecommunication facilities included in Part B of the Project shall
be installed by PERUMTEL; and
(e)   the program  included in Part C of the Project shall be carried out
under the responsibility of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
The Borrower shall cause all its departments, agencies and political
subdivisions and all agencies of its political subdivisions, responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, to cooperate effectively with each other. The
Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, and without
limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall, except as the Association may
otherwise agree:
(i)         enter into arrangements with PLN, in form       and substance
satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to which the Borrower


﻿6
shall provide to PLN promptly as needed the funds required
to construct the power generation, transmission and distribution
facilities included in Part B of the Project, and PLN shall
complete such facilities as and when required to serve the Estate;
(ii)        make available to BTDC the funds required from time to time
to meet the expenditures on Part A of the Project, under a
financing agreement entered into between the Borrower and
BTDC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
including inter alia that the proceeds of the Credit allocated from
time to time to the expenditures on Part A of the Project shall
be relent to BTDC and that the balance of the funds required
by BTDC to carry out Part A of the Project shall be made
available in the form of equity contributions; the Borrower shall
ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover the budgeted
expenditures estimated by BTDC to be made on Part A of the
Project during each calendar quarter shall be available to BTDC
not later than the fifteenth day of each such quarter;
(iii)       relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to expenditures for the telecommunication facilities included in
Part B of the Project to PERUMTEL under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
PERUMTEL on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association; and
(iv)        pass on the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to other expenditures on the Project by the Borrower in the
form of budgetary transfers.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under said financing agreement
and subsidiary loan agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor
amend, abrogate or waive either agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the following consultants
acceptable to the Association shall be employed, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, to assist as and when needed in the carrying out
of the Project:
(a)   an expert familiar with Balinese society and culture and the impact
of tourism thereon, to be employed by BTDB;


﻿7
(b)   an expert in land development planning, to be employed by BTDB;
(c)   consultants for final design and supervision of construction of the civil
works included in, and for assistance with procurement under, Part A of the Project,
to be employed by BTDC;
(d)   an expert in tourism-related land development and the hotel industry
and a financial expert to assist BTDC's President Director, an accounting firm to
assist BTDC's Financial Director and an engineering consultant to assist BTDC's
Director of Technical Operations, all to be employed by BTDC to provide assistance
in the initial management and operation of the Estate; and
(e)   an agricultural consultant to assist in the establishment and initial
operation of the demonstration farm, and a poultry expert to assist in the
development and implementation of the program for the improvement of poultry
and egg production, included in Part C of the Project, both to be employed by
the Office of Agriculture of the Province of Bali.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)   cause BTDC to prepare by December 31, 1974 a diagram setting forth
in detail the critical path for carrying out the Project, to review such critical path
quarterly with all departments, agencies, political subdivisions and agencies of
political subdivisions of the Borrower, responsible for the carrying out of the Project
or any part thereof, and furnish semi-annually to the Association the results of
such reviews;
(b)   ensure that the civil works inct ded in Parts A, B.1 and C of the
Project will be carried out by contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(c)   cause BTDC to determine and submit to the Association not later than
December 31, 1974 for its concurrence a statement of objectives;
(d)   cause BTDC to furnish to the Association not later than December 3 1,
1974 copies of its proposed model form of lease and lease-sale agreements, and
a statement of its lease policies based on its statement of objectives referred to
in the preceding paragraph (c), and shall ensure that BTDC will enter into such
agreements only in accordance with lease policies acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association;
(e)   ensure that the Governor for Bali will issue not later than March 3 1,
1975 a decree promulgating appropriate zoning regulations for the Bukit Peninsula
(Bali);


﻿8
(f)   cause BTDC to furnish to the Association not later than December 3 1,
1974 copies of the schedule of accommodation of the hotel training center
included in Part A of the Project and its equipment, as well as the curricula, student
selection criteria and staffing plan for the center, fLrnish to the Association not
later than June 30, 1975 copies of the final detailed design of such center and
equipment, and to implement such designs, curricula, selection criteria and staffing
plan only after their approval by the Borrower and the Association;
(g)   cause Bank Rakyat Indonesia to provide adequate medium-term credit
on reasonable terms to the farmers designated by the Office of Agriculture of
the Province of Bali to participate in the poultry and egg production improvement
program included in Part C of the Project; and
(h)   cause BTDC to establish a detailed organization plan including staff
requirements for its operations and to furnish to the Association a copy of such
plan not later than December 31, 1975.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿9
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause BTDC to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of BTDC.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BTDC to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of BTDC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause BTDC to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that BTDC shall:
(a)   at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with its Governing
Laws and with sound business, financial and tourism practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management, assisted by qualified staff
in adequate numbers;
(b)   before making an appointment to the position of President Director,
Technical Director, Financial Director or Chief of the Technical Field Unit, inform
the Association of the names, qualifications and experience of the persons


﻿10
considered  for such   appointment and afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with BTDC on the qualifications and experience
of such persons;
(c)   take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all such rights
and interests in land and all such other rights, powers, privileges and franchises
as are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business;
(d)   at all times operate and maintain its installations, equipment and other
property, and promptly as required make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound business and engineering practices; and
(   not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets, except in the normal course of its business, unless the Borrower and
the Association shal otherwise agree.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that BTDC shall be advised on the
management and operation of the hotel training center included in the Project
by a committee chaired by a senior official of BTDC and including in its
membership representatives of the Tourism Office of the Province of Bali and the
hotels situated on the Estate.
Section 4.05. Until 1985, the Borrower shall continue to limit the number
of hotel rooms of international standard offered on Bali outside the Estate to
1,600 rooms or such other limit as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association. For the purposes of this Section, the term "hotel room of
international standard" shall mean any fully air-conditioned guest bedroom in a
hotel which has at least one hundred air conditioned guest bedrooms, modern
kitchen facilities and a swimming pool.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure until 1985 that BTDC shall not incur any debt other than the debt
incurred under its financing agreement referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement. For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         "debt" means any indebtedness of BTDC maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred; and
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt.


﻿Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause BTDC:
(i)         to establish, maintain and collect for each of BTDC's fiscal years
water supply, sewerage and waste disposal tariffs which, if BTDC
were to sell 2,600,000 cubic meters of water during such year,
would yield a return of at least eleven per cent (I 1%) of the
average current gross value of BTDC's fixed assets in operation
in the same year for the provision of water supply, sewerage
and waste disposal services; and
(ii)        to review, before June 1 in each of its fiscal years, on the basis
of realistic forecasts of revenues and costs, the adequacy of its
tariffs and sales of water to produce in the current fiscal year
such annual return, and to furnish to the Association the results
of such review.
(b)   The annual rate of return specified in paragraph (a) shall be calculated
by using as the denominator the average between the aggregate current gross values
of BTDC's fixed assets in operation for the provision of water supply, sewerage
and waste disposal services at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year for
which the calculation is made and as numerator the operating income of BTDC
for the same fiscal year and accountable to the same services.
(c)   Until one tnousand seven hundred (1,700) hotel guest bedrooms will
have been placed into service on the Estate, the Borrower shall promptly as needed
provide sufficient liquid funds to BTDC to cover any cash deficit which BTDC
might incur.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term   "current gross value of BTDC's fixed assets" means
at any given date the gross value of such assets as valued or
revalued in accordance with appropriate methods acceptable to
the Association; and
(ii)        the term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(1)   all operating revenues accruing from BTDC's water supply,
sewerage and waste disposal services; and
(2)   all operating and administrative costs relating thereto,
including maintenance and taxes, if any, but excluding
provision for depreciation and debt service requirements.


﻿12
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause BTDB to realize its purpose and
assist the Province of Bali in the development of tourism on Bali, in accordance
with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BTDB to establish a secretariat which shall
be adequately staffed with qualified and experienced personnel, and cause the
secretariat to cooperate closely with the Tourism Office of the Province of Bali.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. The Association may, upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Sections 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions or in Sections 5.02
and 5.03 of this Agreement and the continuance thereof for the period, if any,
specified for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or (ii) declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with the
charges thereon.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BTDC or BTDB or for the
suspension of their respective operations;
(b)   the  Borrower   shall have   suspended, terminated, repealed   or
substantially amended any of the Governing Laws or any provision thereof, to
affect materially and adversely the management or operations of BTDC; and
(c)   BTDC shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BTDC or by others whereby
any of the property of BTDC shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the events specified
in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿13
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the financing agreement and subsidiary
loan agreement referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement between the Borrower
and BTDC and PERUMTEL, respectively, have been duly authorized and ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(b) The Chief of the Technical Field Unit of BTDC has been appointed
and has taken up his post.
(c)   The land development and hotel expert specified in Section 3.03(d)
of this Agreement has been appointed and has taken up his post.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the financing agreement and subsidiary loan agreement referred
to in paragraph (a) of the preceding Section have been duly authorized and ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, BTDC and PERUMTEL,
respectively, and constitute valid and binding obligations of the respective parties
thereto in accordance with their respective terms.
(b) That BTDC has been duly established as a perseroan terbatas and that
its Charter has been published in the Borrower's Lembaran Negara and together
with the approval of the Charter by the Borrower's Minister of Justice duly
transcribed into the appropriate public registers.
(c)   That BTDC has the free use of at least 310 ha. of land situated at
Nusa Dua (Bali) for a period of not less than thirty years.
Section 6.03. The date September 12, 1974, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement shall cease and


﻿14
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:
MINISTRY FINANCE
Jakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿15
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Abdul Habir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Raymond J. Goodman
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            %Of
Category(Expressed in                               Expenditures
Ctgr               Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Civil works                    7,000             50% (representing
for Parts A,                                      the estimated for-
B.1 and C of                                      eign expenditure
the Project                                       component)
II.   Vehicles (other                2,400,000          100% of foreign
than sedans and                                   expenditures, 95%
station wagons),                                  of local expend-
equipment and                                     itures ex-factory,
furniture other                                   and 70% of other
than for Part B.2                                 local expenditures
of the Project,                                   for goods
and telephone
cables
111.  Consultants'                   1,900,000          100% of foreign
services and                                      expenditures
overseas
training
IV.  Unallocated                     3,00,00
TOTAL         16,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  'foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿17
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made up to an aggregate amount of $250,000 equivalent
under Category I and up to an aggregate amount of $100,000 equivalent under
Category III on account of expenditures incurred after July 1, 1973 and prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet such estimated
shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is for the development of tourism on the island of Bali and
consists of the following:
Part A:
1.   The establishment of a torrism  estate at Nusa Dua on the Bukit
Peninsula adequate to accommodate hotels offering a combined total
of about 2,500 guestrooms, together with the necessary infrastructure
and utilities on the Estate (including internal roads and streets;
electrical installations for the ammenity core and street lighting;
facilities for water, sewerage and solid waste disposal; landscaping; and
common buildings), and infrastructure improvements in the adjacent
villages of Benoa and Bualu.
2.    Design, construction and equipment of a hotel training center between
Denpasar and Sanur capable of accommodating about three hundred
basic-level trainees and about one hundred medium-level trainees.
3.    Training of staff of BTDC.
Part B:
1.   Design and construction of an access road between Tuban airport and
Nusa Dua and a road from Tuban airport to Tohpati by-passing
Denpasar, and upgrading of the eleven multipurpose roads in the central
part of Bali specified in the Annex to this Schedule 2.
2.    Design and construction of a 5 Mw extension to the existing 30 Mw
power generating plant near Denpasar and a 70 kV double circuit
transmission line between the plant and the Estate together with
switching substations and underground distribution network on the
Estate.
3.   Installation of telephone and telex facilities adequate to serve the needs
of the Estate and the hotels to be established thereon.
Part C:
A program designed to develop the production and processing of
Balinese agricultural products, including the creation of a ten ha.


﻿19
demonstration farm for vegetable grading and seeds production, a
special agricultural program including the provision of agricultural
credit to improve poultry and egg production, and the establishment
of equitable marketing arrangements for farmers supplying Balinese
hotels and restaurants.
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1978.


﻿20
ANNEX
Multipurpose roads                              Approximate length
Tohpati-Klungkung Road                                36 km
Klungkung-Besakih Road                                22 km
Peteluan-Bangli Road                                  11 km
Sakah-Teges-Bedulu-Tampaksiring                       20 km
Teges-Ubud Road                                        5 km
Bedulu-Semabaung Road                                  2 km
Batubulan-Payangan Road                               21 km
Peguyangan-Sangeh Road                                19 km
Kediri-Tanahlot Road                                  11 km
Ubung-Kediri Road                                     16 km
Mengwitani-Pancasari Road                             36 km


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be awarded under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as
revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts will be grouped to the extent that this will be practical and
economic.
Bidders for civil works contracts shall be required to prequalify.
3.   Advertisements for contracts for civil works or furniture estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or less may be limited to newspapers of general
circulation in Indonesia.
Contracts for telecommunications equipment shall be awarded after
negotiations with the manufacturers of such equipment then employed in Bali.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. Bali price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar
taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿22
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Indonesia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other taxes on goods to be imported
and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group
A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all evaluated group C bids shall be further compared
with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price
of the imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or, if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of the c.i.f. price of such goods, (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods. If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest evaluated
bid, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group
C shall be selected.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category I of
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors,
as determined by the Borrower, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿23
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)         bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures


﻿24
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reason- l0y request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification was invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


