Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20917 AFR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.2 MILLION
(US$9.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
BANQUE CENTRALE DES ETATS DE L'AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST
FORA
BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
September 26, 2000
Finance Group
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA franc
CFAF I = US$.00137
US$1 = CFAF 729
FISCAL YEAR
January to December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                    Agence FranSaise de Developpement
ATM                    Automated Teller Machine
BCEAO                  Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BEAC                   Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
BIS                    Bank of International Settlements
CCP                    Comites Consultatifs des Paiements
CIDA                   Canadian International Development Agency
CMR                    Centre Monftique R6gional
COMPENS                Low-value clearing system
ECOWAS                 Economic Community of West African States
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
IDA                    International Development Association
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
MONETIQUE              Interbank card system
MRSMP                  Mission pour la Riforme des Systemes et Moyens de Paiement
OHADA                  Organization for the Harmonization of African Business Law
POS                    Point of Sale
PPF                    Project Preparation Facility
RSE                    Regional Stock Exchange
RTGS                   Real Time Gross Settlement
SME                    Small and Medium Enterprise
VSAT                   Very Small Aperture Terminal
WAEMU                  West African Economic and Monetary Union
WAMU                   West African Monetary Union
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Coordinator for BCEAO:    Charles Humphreys
Sector Manager:    Gerard Byam
Task Team Leader:    Ann C. Rennie



AFRICA
BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                      6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        1 1
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                           12
3. Technical                                                                          13
4. Institutional                                                                       13
5. Environmental                                                                       14
6. Social                                                                              14
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     15
2. Critical risks                                                                      16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      17



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                               17
2. Other                                                                                  17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                              17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                             17
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                              19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                       22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                            38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                      39
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                  41
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                          42
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                         53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                       54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                      55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                                57
MAP(S)
N.A.



AFRICA
BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPF
Date: September 26, 2000                          Team Leader: Ann Christine Rennie
Project ID: P054884                               Sector(s): FY - Other Finance
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan          M Credit       D Grant         C Guarantee     D Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $9.43 M
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard Credit                        Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local        Forea!n         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                      2.07           1.81          3.88
IDA                                                            0.94            8.49          9.43
OTHER PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                               0.32            5.63          5.95
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                          3.33          15.93         19.26
Borrower: BCEAO
Responsible agency:
BCEAO (Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest)
Address: Dakar, Senegal
Contact Person: Mme. Fatimatou Zahra Diop, M. Jean-Claude Brou
Tel: 221-839-05-00;                Fax: 221-823-93-35                Email: fzdiop@bceao.int;
jbrou@bceao.int
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           2001        2002        2003        2004        2005
Annual     2.2           4.0          1.7        1.1         0.4
Cumulative     2.2          6.2          7.9         9.0         9.4
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 01/15/2001  Expected closing date:  07/31/2005
OCS PAD Fo-n R.. M-hd., 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The primary objective of the project is to establish and install an appropriate set of regional payment
mechanisms to satisfy the evolving needs of all market sectors in the West African Economic and Monetary
Union (WAEMU) - consumer, retail, industrial, commercial, government, financial markets, and
international - for making payments in a safe, sound, secure and timely manner with certainty and at an
acceptable cost. A secondary, but nevertheless equally important objective, is that the new payments
systems satisfy internationally accepted standards and core principles and thus ensure a high level of user
confidence in the WAEMU financial systems.
A well-functioning payments, clearing and settlement system is key to an efficient financial sector, and
plays an important role in reducing credit, liquidity and systemic risks in the system. By supporting the
implementation of a state-of-the-art payment system for the entire WAEMNJ region, the project would
contribute to the development of non-cash transactions, the strengthening of banks, the deepening of the
financial sector, and, more generally, increased regional integration and the expansion of trade and
investment among and within member countries.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key indicators include increasing the volume of non-cash transactions processed by the system, the
development of electronic transactions, and the reduction in payment delays and intermediation costs for
domestic, regional and international transactions.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: N/A        Date of latest CAS discussion:  N/A
This project is included in the draft Regional Assistance Strategy (RAS) which is being developed for West
Africa, which encompasses the 16 countries stretching from Mauritania to Nigeria. As part of this
strategy, a special focus will be put on promoting regional integration and reinforcing existing regional
bodies, including WAEMU, which is comprised of eight countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, C6te d'Ivoire,
Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo). These countries share a common currency (CFA franc)
and Central Bank (Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest, BCEAO), a common external tariff
since January 1, 2000, a common set of business laws under the OHADA initiative, and a common stock
exchange based in Abidjan (C6te d'Ivoire). The Bank Group has helped member countries adjust to the
introduction of a common external tariff, and implement the Organization for Harmonization in Africa of
Business Law (OHADA) initiative. It has also helped in the establishment of the Regional Stock
Exchange. Reducing the high costs of doing business in the sub-region, and integrating financial markets
are two specific objectives of the RAS which will be advanced by this project.
BCEAO was established by treaty in 1973 as an international public institution headquartered in Dakar,
Senegal. The Governor of the BCEAO is appointed by the Council of Ministers for six years and cannot
be removed from office during that period. He convenes and chairs the Board of Directors, which is
comprised of two directors per country and two directors from France.
The Council of Ministers sets monetary policy objectives, and BCEAO has overall management of
-2 -



monetary policy and ensures the viability of the West African CFA Franc, which is pegged to the Euro
(656 to 1) with convertibility guaranteed by the French Treasury. BCEAO is also in charge of proposing
bank legislation, while supervision is entrusted to the Banking Commission, with BCEAO providing
resources to the General Secretariat. Accordingly, strengthening the working relationship with BCEAO is
paramount for effective macroeconomic and financial sector work in the eight WAEMU countries.
The International Development Association (IDA), under its Articles of Agreement, may provide financing
to public international or regional organizations for the benefit of IDA members. Since BCEAO is the
common Central Bank of the eight WAEMU member states (all IDA eligible countries), and because it
operates the existing payment system and will be responsible for project implementation and operation, it is
the logical choice of borrower for this credit. No counter-guarantees by governments are deemed
necessary; indeed, BCEAO is considered to be more creditworthy than any of its constituent member
countries, and has often been called upon in the past to guarantee obligations of WAEMU states. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the credit could be accelerated in accordance with the provisions of the
1996 policies as decided by the Executive Directors (IDA/R96-145) following IDA 11 replenishment
discussions. This would occur if the sum of the GNP of BCEAO's constituent countries, weighted by their
respective share in BCEAO's capital, has exceeded for three consecutive years the level annually
established by IDA. The repayment terms of the credit could subsequently be modified if the economic
condition of the constituent countries deteriorates significantly. BCEAO has sought and obtained approval
from the WAEMU Council of Ministers to negotiate and sign the Development Credit Agreement for this
project.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The present payment system is a constraint to the development of business and banking services in the
WAEMU area. It is slow, unreliable, cumbersome and costly to all participants. The formal sector is still
narrow in the WAEMU region, and most monetary transactions are in cash. The number of bank accounts
is small: it is estimated that less than 6.4 percent of the estimated 24 million active population in the region
have a bank account compared to 90 to 95 percent in developed countries. The daily average volume of
checks, representing about 80 percent of non-cash transactions, was only around 35,000 in 1996.
In the 1980s, poor macroeconomic policies and mismanagement of banks, many of them in the public
sector, led to economic decline and a financial sector crisis in most member countries. The devaluation of
the CFA franc in January 1994, supported by economic reform programs, has restored a healthy export-led
growth in most countries of the area. Most countries have also implemented far-reaching reform programs
in their own financial sectors, including privatization of banks and reinforcement of supervision at the
regional level by the Banking Commission.
Because, inter-alia, the present payment system is not efficient, the inter-bank market in the WAEMU area
is almost non- existent despite diverging financing requirements among member countries throughout the
year. Most bank refinancing is done through BCEAO. Over-liquid banks have few opportunities for
investing their funds, and therefore tend to keep high balances with the Central Bank at low interest rates.
On the other hand, banks in need of refinancing borrow from the Central Bank, but at a higher cost than
they would get on the inter-bank market.
Until recently, the telecommunications sector was a major stumbling block to the development of an
efficient payment system. In most countries, telecommunications are being privatized, however, which
should improve service reliability and reduce costs over time. In recent years, banks in the region have
invested heavily in the development of information technology, including for addressing the Y2K issue.
-3 -



BCEAO has also recently developed its own satellite network to connect its 8 national (agence principale)
and 15 local branches (agence auxiliaire) in WAEMU countries. This infrastructure will be used as the
basis for improving the payment systems at a relatively low cost.
The legal framework, including inter-bank rules and procedures to ensure that payment transaction
processing is fully compatible from one participant to the other, and fully transparent for banks' clients,
needs to be strengthened, in particular with regards to electronic payments.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
By establishing a modem payment system, the project would increase opportunities for transactions across
the WAEMU area for both banks and their clients, thus fostering trade and contributing to regional
integration. It would increase security of payment and lower the cost of transactions.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project includes five components: (i) project support; (ii) a real time gross settlement system (RTGS);
(iii) a low value clearing system (COMPENS); (iv) an inter-bank card system, including a feasibility study
for e-money (Monetique); and (v) a common telecommunications and computer infrastructure based on
BCEAO's facilities.
The project support component includes project management and monitoring, training, procurement, legal
framework, and beneficiary surveys. International and local consultants will be hired on a temporary basis
to help the project unit (Mission pour la Reforme des Systemes et Moyens de Paiement, MRSMP) manage
and implement the project, establish appropriate rules and procedures, train staff of participating
institutions, and carry out surveys of beneficiaries.
The RTGS component includes the establishment of a real time gross settlement system at the regional
level. The system would be open to banks and other financial institutions, who would have to select one of
two modes for participating. A direct participant would access its own account at BCEAO and have a
direct technical on-line access to the RTGS. An indirect participant would have a settlement account
managed by BCEAO, but no technical access to the RTGS. A non-participating financial institution could
be represented by a direct or indirect participant. In that case, the institution would have no settlement
account with BCEAO. The direct or indirect participant would be financially responsible for all
transactions made on behalf of that institution.
The RTGS system is intended to meet the demand for high value or time-sensitive payments of the
wholesale sector of the market (inter-bank transactions, securities settlement, BCEAO monetary operations,
settling of the daily net balances of the low value clearing and settlement system, and time critical payments
in the corporate and government sectors). It would settle the payment leg of securities transactions held by
BCEAO with a direct link with the delivery of securities. The settlement of the payment of securities
traded on the Regional Stock Exchange (RSE) could also be made through the RTGS. By 2003-04, it is
estimated that the RTGS system would process about 250,000 transactions annually. A key objective of
the RTGS is to mitigate the risk that failure of a single financial institution puts the entire system at risk.
This may happen when a large debit position of a participant cannot be covered and all transactions need to
be reversed. The proposed RTGS will be designed in compliance with Bank of International Settlements
(BIS) payment system principles which address this risk.
- 4 -



The low value clearing component would upgrade existing systems at the national and regional levels to
make them more efficient. It is designed to meet the daily low-value payment needs of a broad spectrum of
users, including consumer, retail, commercial, industrial, and government. It would also cover a variety of
payment instruments (checks, automatic debits and credits, payment orders, card payments, etc.). To avoid
the drawbacks associated with the clearing and transport of paper, a new scheme has been designed. It
would allow a payee's bank to present all its national instruments to the nearest and most convenient local
or national BCEAO branch. All paper transactions, including outstation transactions, would be given
locally to the payor's bank at the same locations as the former clearing houses (e.g., BCEAO offices). The
payor's bank would have the responsibility to inform the payee's bank of a payment rejection within an
agreed number of days due to transaction and fund availability control. In parallel, interbank clearing and
settlement would be done on the basis of electronic files: local transactions and local bilateral balances
would be sent by local BCEAO branches and consolidated at the national level for settlement.
Initially, settlements would be made using the current accounts of participating banks held at national
branches of BCEAO. When the large value clearing and settlement system (RTGS) is in place, accounting
and settlement of national multilateral balances would be processed directly in this system. By 2004, it is
estimated that this system would process about 20 million transactions annually.
The inter-bank card system would develop a common bank card product, enabling any bank customer to
use it in any Automated Teller Machine (ATM) or participating merchant's facility (Point of Sale - POS) in
the sub-region. This component would include the formulation of a regulatory framework and contractual
arrangements, the establishment of a center in charge of regulating the system on behalf of banks and
maintaining relations with international bank card networks like VISA, MASTERCARD, etc. The center
could subcontract technical operations to one or more service providers in order to minimize costs, share
investments, and increase the reliability and security of the system. It is estimated that in 2003-04, about
250,000 cards would be in use, resulting in about 5 to 10 million transactions annually. The success of the
card component, which is being financed largely by commercial banks in the region, will ultimately depend
on the efforts of these banks in marketing the card as a desirable product.
The project would include a feasibility study on the use of e-money systems, such as smart cards, for small
payments as a means of expanding the use of non-cash means of payment to those who do not currently
have bank accounts, including the poor. Payment of electricity bills, for example, 90% of which are
currently paid in cash, could be targeted for this study.
For all three payments systems described above, the BCEAO's telecommunications satellite network would
be used to effect transactions with a high degree of security and at low cost. Local networks would have
to be built and secured for connecting banks' local branches and ATMs and POS facilities. Banks would
finance the cost of developing the local networks and would utilize BCEAO's telecommunication facilities,
as appropriate, to minimize costs.
Project Costs by Component
Indicaiive             Bank-      %Of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)   Total       (US$M)  financing
Project support                    Financial Sector     2.60       13.5       1.56      16.5
Development
- 5 -



Real Time Gross Settlement System  Financial Sector    2.47       12.8      2.00       21.2
Development
Clearing System                    Financial Sector    4.05       21.0      2.08       22.1
Development
Bank Card System                   Financial Sector    4.45       23.1      0.26        2.8
Development
Telecommunications                 Financial Sector    2.76       14.3      1.50       15.9
Development
PPF (Regional stock exchange)      Financial Sector    1.30        6.7      1.30       13.8
Development
Contingencies                      Financial Sector    1.63        8.5      0.73        7.7
Development
Total Project Costs                   19.26      100.0      9.43      100.0
Total Financing Required                    19.26      100.0      9.43     100.0
Two PPF advances (P-878-0 and P-878-1) related to the establishment of the regional stock exchange
totaling US$1.3 million granted in 1994 and 1996 are managed by BCEAO staff and will be refinanced
under the project.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would complement financial sector reforms undertaken in most WAEMU member countries in
recent years. It would minimize the settlement risk in the payments system for large value funds transfers.
It would introduce a modem institutional and legal framework for payment services in the sub-region. It
would reinforce the surveillance role of BCEAO over financial institutions. It would establish norms and
standards for payments across the monetary zone. It would strengthen the new BCEAO data base system
put in place to track clients who have issued bad checks or payments. It would facilitate non-cash
payments, and reduce the need for high cash liquidity in the system. It would enable the development of
new means of payments for the poor. It would promote the development of an inter-bank market. It would
improve the marketability of government debt, and foster the development of the regional stock exchange. It
would facilitate efforts to fight money laundering, and would lay the foundation for future developments
such as e-commerce.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would improve the quality of payment services, reducing costly float, speeding up circulation
of funds, and increasing the efficiency of funds transmission. It would provide appropriate tools to
financial institutions to facilitate enhanced cash management and avoid credit and liquidity risk. It would
contribute to a deepening of the financial sector. It would establish the conditions for expansion of regional
stock exchange activity. It would facilitate the development of government debt markets. It would reduce
transaction costs and improve the environment for private sector development. Finally, it would facilitate
regional economic integration.
Beneficiaries would be participating financial institutions, enterprises, the increasing number of people
using bank services, and small consumers who currently have no access to banking services. A baseline
survey of beneficiaries would be conducted at the outset of the project. Follow-up surveys would be
carried out when all the systems are in place and operating.
- 6 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The project would be implemented over four years, starting with the low value
clearing system, followed by the real time gross settlement system, and, in parallel, the inter-bank card
component.
Implementation Agencies: Project implementation would be coordinated by a special unit MRSMP which
has been created within BCEAO, which has been staffed with qualified BCEAO personnel for the duration
of the project. The unit would receive temporary assistance from specialized consultants. Banks would
participate closely in the implementation of the project. They would be responsible for the installation of
facilities required to make the systems work in their branches and head offices.
Oversight and coordination. The MRSMP reports to the Governor of BCEAO. It works closely with
consultative committees established at both the national and sub-regional levels, which comprise
representatives of beneficiaries and end-users, as well as international experts in payments systems. Banks
have established sub-committees on RTGS, treasurers, low-value payments, card systems and legal and
regulatory aspects, which advise the project implementation unit. The Committee of Experts, which
includes representatives from national committees and technical sub-committees, will meet regularly
throughout project implementation to provide advice and recommendations on options presented. This
committee was created to ensure the involvement and ownership of all stakeholders. As required, the
International Panel of Experts, drawn from European central banks and international organizations, will
participate in deliberations of the Committee of Experts.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements A financial management system
acceptable to IDA will be established to provide project management and IDA with accurate and timely
information regarding resources and expenditures. It will include accounting, financial reporting and
auditing as well as procurement and physical progress monitoring elements in compliance with the World
Bank's policies and procedures (OP/BP 10.02 as well as financial management initiative requirements). A
detailed action plan for the establishment of such a system was agreed during project preparation. It is
based on the conclusions of the financial management capacity assessment conducted during the
preparation phase, and which helped define the financial management arrangements as summarized
hereafter.
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
The report of the financial management capacity assessment can be found in project files. The conclusions
indicate that despite a well-established accounting organization and detailed administrative and accounting
procedures, BCEAO's current financial management system does not allow for keeping the project's
accounts as a sub-system of the main accounting system. This would require some adjustment to ensure that
the project's transactions would be recorded and reported on in detail and scope commensurate with World
Bank financial management requirements and the project's information needs. The required improvements
(defining an additional set of accounts to the existing chart of accounts to record separately transactions
related to the project or creating a separate cost center for the project within the main accounting system)
are not feasible within the current system based on the conclusions of the assessment. Therefore, it was
agreed that a separate autonomous financial management system would be more appropriate for the project.
BCEAO has detailed procedures presented in a five-volume accounting manual, in addition to several
guidelines describing specific procedures such as procurement of goods and services, monitoring and
depreciation of fixed assets, posting certain types of transactions, etc. Although these procedures and
guidelines are satisfactory, they could be cumbersome due to excessive pre-payment measures. The
- 7-



assessment therefore concluded that it would be appropriate to have simplified procedures applicable to the
project while maintaining internal control procedures that would ensure that funds are safeguarded. As a
result, a specific set of accounting procedures has been developed for the project and incorporated in the
Procedures Manual.
The specifications of the autonomous financial management system and the accounting manual, along with
the prerequisites, were taken into account in defining the project's overall financial management
arrangements presented hereafter.
Financial Management Arrangements
Accounting software: The project would be equipped with a multi-currency accounting software capable of
recording and reporting the project's operations by component, sub-component, activity, and expenditure
category, regardless of the origin of funds. The software should also offer a budget planning and monitoring
module, a contract monitoring module and a reporting module capable of generating the periodic project
management reports required under the financial management initiative, formerly known as LACI. Detailed
terms of reference for the selection of the accounting software were prepared by BCEAO and approved by
IDA during project preparation. The software should be installed and functioning satisfactorily to IDA prior
to effectiveness.
Accounting procedures: Project-specific accounting procedures have been developed based on BCEAO's
established procedures and guidelines which have been tailored to the project's needs for more flexibility and
rapidity while respecting internal control requirements. The draft manual has been submitted to IDA for
approval. The final version satisfactory to IDA is a condition of effectiveness.
Financial reporting: Separate financial statements will be prepared for the project annually, comprising i) a
statement of Source and Application of funds for the project during the current financial year and
cumulatively since the start of the project, and ii) a balance sheet. In addition, a quarterly report using the
Project Management Report models, including financial statements, procurement/contracts schedule and
output monitoring, will be submitted one month after the end of each quarter.
Auditing: The financial statements of the project will be audited each fiscal year by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA in accordance with acceptable auditing standards. The selection and appointment of the
project auditor, according to terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of effectiveness.
Accounting staffing: To ensure that the project's accounting is kept up-to-date and provides timely and
regular informnation, an accountant will be assigned to the project. The project's accountant will work under
the supervision of the accounting department as specified in the project manual of procedures. The
appointment of the accountant in the project team, according to terms of reference and qualifications
approved by IDA, will be a condition of effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
An integrated regional approach to improving payment systems is more effective and cost-efficient for
countries belonging to a monetary zone like WAEMIU than a national approach. Therefore it was decided
to focus the proposed operation at the regional level instead of preparing individual country projects.
The project was prepared by consultants in close coordination with the Committee of Experts, chaired by
-8 -



BCEAO, and including representatives of the banking community of each WAEMU member state,
international payments experts from several major western central banks, and representatives from the
World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF). Several meetings took place to agree on basic
principles and objectives of the payment system reform and the architecture and design of the new
infrastructure for the sub-region.
The first scheme, which was rejected, was the continuation of a fully decentralized clearing and settlement
system for all payments at the local level. The opposite scheme, which was rejected as well, was the
construction of a single centralized system at the regional level. The solution retained was the construction
of a flexible system composed of a few main components dealing respectively with systemically important
transactions (RTGS), clearing of low value transactions on a net basis, and a common card scheme and
system at the regional level. The committee agreed that a RTGS should be implemented for large value
transactions and settlement of net system balances, despite the high cost involved initially. The committee
also agreed that the payment leg of the settlement/delivery of securities held at BCEAO should be settled
through the RTGS.
Another solution, which was rejected, was the continuation of the paper-based clearing and settlement
system. The committee agreed that the low value clearing and netting system should be based on electronic
files. It was also agreed that the system would process all kind of instruments: checks, payment orders,
direct credits, automatic debits, card transactions, etc. Furthermore, the system's architecture will allow all
payees' bank payment transactions to be presented to the payor's bank in any location, which is not
presently the case.
Another solution, which was rejected, was the development by banks of their own independent card system.
The committee agreed that all banks in the area should support and participate in the development of a
single card system to reduce costs and increase business for all particpants. It also agreed that BCEAO
should play an initiating role in the promotion of the card system, with a specialized regional card center,
owned by commercial banks, in charge of development and management of the system.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
The absence of a quick and reliable clearing and settlement payment system has been identified as a serious
obstacle to the development of regional securities markets and government debt markets in WAEMU. The
Bank provided technical assistance to BCEAO in the initial phases of development of the regional stock
exchange, and the Canadian International Aid Agency (CIDA) is providing ongoing support to both the
exchange and the securities commission. The U.S. Treasury is providing technical assistance to BCEAO
and member states for the development of government securities markets in the region.
Indirectly, the project supports ongoing private sector development and financial sector work throughout
the region by lowering transaction costs and thereby increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of both
the financial and wider private sectors. It is consistent with the World Bank's regional financial sector
strategy of supporting regional initiatives to attain critical mass in small financial sectors. Finally, it
supports the regional assistance strategy currently under development by fostering regional integration and
intra-regional trade.
The World Bank has recently agreed to a request from Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC),
the Central Bank of the Central African Economic and Monetary Community, to provide assistance in
-9-



modernizing its payment system. The experience gained from the proposed project should prove invaluable
in dealing with very similar problems in the BEAC region.
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
. _______________________________  .________.___   _________ __  (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Support Government in the         Cote d'Ivoire Financial Sector     S             S
Privatization of banks and State arrears Adjustment
treatment                         (Ln. 3408, Cr. 2303)
Provide support in the financial sector  Burkina Faso PASP TA        S             S
reform activities including: bank  (Cr. 24720)
privatization, recovery trust and more
recently microfinance
Support Government in the         Mali Financial Sector
Privatization/restructuring of banks,   (ML-PA- 1748) (not yet
insurance companies, and microfinance effective)
Support Government in             Togo PERP - Cr. 3045               S             U
Privatization/restructuring of banks and Togo Financial Sector Adjust.
microfinance                      (TG-PA-35625)
Develop RTGS payment system and   Mauritius Financial Sector         S             S
support govermnent in debt        Infrastructure Project
management                        (Ln. 701 1-MAS)
Structural adjustment credit for balance Benin SAL II (Cr. 2283)     S             S
of payment support
Other development agencies
CIDA: microfinance, Regional Stock   BCEAO: PARMEC, AARCEC
Exchange
AFD: RSE, SME Finance
U.S. Treasury: study and promotion of BCEAO
Government securities markets in
WAEMU
International Labor Organization:  BCEAO: PASMEC
microfinance
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 10 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The first lesson drawn from experience is that the development and implementation of a payment system is
a complex process requiring the active involvement of all stakeholders. At the regional level, a Committee
of Experts representing stakeholders has been set up for the design of the project and has been closely
involved in all phases of project preparation. The same committee, composed of major stakeholders'
representatives, will continue to play a key consultative role during project implementation, and technical
sub-committees have been created with correspondant committees or working groups in each country.
The second lesson is that a proper sequencing of individual components is essential. Under the project, the
lower value system should be implemented first because it would handle the vast bulk of operations, and
would have the most immediate positive impact on the greatest number of end-users. This component,
unlike the RTGS, represents an incremental step for banks, and will not require a major change in internal
operating procedures or systems. It would be followed by the bank card system, whose success depends on
the existence of a rapid & reliable low value system. In parallel, the core functions (settlement and
accounting module) of the RTGS system would be implemented in order to settle the transactions from the
netting systems. Overlapping in the development and installation phases of each component need to be
carefully scheduled and managed in order to optimize quality and time.
The third lesson is that it is essential to provide a sound legal framework and to develop and enforce
suitable standards covering all critical aspects of payment system operation. The legal framework has been
carefully reviewed by consultants, who recommended several amendments to existing legislation.
Standards have been developed in close consultation with stakeholders, and will be enforced by BCEAO.
Rules and procedures would be developed under the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed project is the result of a direct request from Governor Banny to President Wolfensohn for the
Bank to provide assistance to modernize the payment system. BCEAO has established a full-time project
unit (MRSMP), which has been working with the Bank and the consultants who prepared the feasibility
study for almost two years. BCEAO has assigned a director in charge of the MRSMP who chairs the
Committee of Experts as well. Meetings of the committee were convened at regular intervals, and
attendance by stakeholder representatives has consistently been at a high level of responsibility. Members
of the BCEAO project unit have travelled to each member state to discuss the project with senior bankers
and other beneficiaries in-country, and the Governor has met with senior management of all banks in the
region in order to obtain their agreement to proceed with the project. The ministers of finance of the
member countries have been kept regularly informed on the status of project preparation, and are fully
supportive of the initiative. In June, the WAEMU Council of Ministers authorized Governor Banny to
conclude negotiations and sign the Development Credit Agreement with the World Bank. BCEAO has
committed significant financial and human resources to the project and will continue to do so throughout
project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has supported the reform of the financial sector in five countries out of the eight concerned,
through adjustment lending, technical assistance and investrnent lending. The Bank has been instrumental
in mobilizing funds for project preparation and for promoting an open dialogue between stakeholders
during project preparation. A bank payment system expert has attended key meetings of the Committee of
- 11 -



Experts, and, drawing lessons from experience around the world, has provided critical input to help build a
consensus on technical and institutional issues. The Bank has assisted BCEAO in the creation of an
international advisory panel composed of representatives of the central banks of Belgium, France,
Swizterland, Portugal, and a representative from the IMF.
BCEAO is a key player in the WAEMU region for promoting financial sector and fiscal stability and
economic reform. Developing and maintaining a partnership with BCEAO is paramount for the Bank's
macroeconomic and financial sector work in the eight member countries. This project would build on the
ongoing dialogue and help BCEAO introduce modern payments instruments and efficient clearing and
settlement processes with the support of the banking community in the area.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
It is quite difficult to quantify the project's benefits. Nevertheless, it is expected that the returns on the
investment required to modernize the payment system will be quite high. There are significant macro and
micro-economic benefits to developing an efficient payment system, including: i) promotion of economic
activity, particularly domestic and international trade and commerce, leading to greater regional integration
and a progressive switch from the informal to the formal economy as financial services become less costly
and more reliable; ii) improved monetary policy, as the ability of BCEAO to control monetary aggregates,
adjust reserve requirements, and utilize open market operations efficiently depends on a more reliable
payment system; iii) financial sector development, including the development of new financial instruments,
products and markets, increased competition among financial institutions, better service and lower
transaction costs to customers; iv) improved efficiency and cash management, reduction of float, and a
sharp decrease in delays for participating banks and their clients; funds which are currently tied up in
lengthy clearing and settlement processes will be available for more productive uses; and v) the reduction of
risk exposure for the Central Bank and the financial system as a whole because of the RTGS.
The design of a modem payment system should ensure the lowest cost to all parties, subject to appropriate
standards of speed, certainty, reliability, convenience and safety. The proposed three-pronged strategy
(RTGS, low-value, and card system) proposed for the WAEMU countries is the result of extensive
consultation with end-users, and was deemed to be the most cost-effective. The RTGS will handle time
critical, high-value payments with greater speed and security (at a higher cost), than the system for
handling bill payments and small checks.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Investment and recurrent cost estimates for the project reflect the professional judgment of experienced
payment system design practitioners and are consistent with costs incurred in establishing similar systems
in other countries. The banking community has been closely involved in the preparation of the project.
Cost estimates have been reviewed carefully by the Committee of Experts. Annual fees levied on
participating institutions are expected to amortize investment costs over a period of five to ten years.
Operating costs would be recovered through fees related to the volume of transactions. Benefits expected
by participating banks from the new payment system would more than offset their cost.
- 12-



Fiscal Impact:
Direct fiscal impact will be minimal. Insofar as a more efficient payment system should result in increased
economic activity in the formal sector, greater transparency in financial operations, and reduced delays and
transaction costs for government, government agencies and fiscal authorities, the indirect fiscal impact
should be positive.
3. Technical:
The technical architecture and functional specifications of the proposed payment system are fully
compatible with the present development of information technology in the banking system and with BIS's
recently published ten core principals on payment systems. A satellite-based telecommunications system is
in place linking BCEAO headquarters in Dakar with its national and local branches. It would be used for
the payment system under contractual conditions, to be defined. The legal specifications for use of the
system are being established in close coordination with the banking community. Security of information is
a key concern that has been consistently addressed during project preparation.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
BCEAO would be responsible for coordinating physical implementation of the payments system and for
operating the RTGS and low value clearing components. It would benefit from assistance from qualified
and experienced RTGS and low value payment systems consultants, who would specify and oversee the
acquisition and installation of appropriate technology, supervise operation of the systems and provide
training to relevant staff in BCEAO and participating banks. BCEAO would take a leadership role in the
development of an inter-bank card system. It would promote and help create the center in charge of
coo.dination and implementation of the bank card scheme. Taking into account the experience in France, a
solution envisaged is that the center would be created as a groupement d 'intret economique, which is a
non-profit limited partnership established for a specific purpose with joint responsibility of each member.
One principle agreed during the last meeting of the Committee of Experts is that this center will be able to
sub-contract to experienced services providers operational functions in order to optimize quality and costs.
4.2 Project management:
The project would be managed by the MRSMP at BCEAO, which has been in existence for approximately
two years and has had overall responsibility for project preparation. The Mission is headed by a Director,
and consists of a multidisciplinary team from BCEAO (finance, economics, law, etc.). Given the
importance and characteristics of each project component, a sub-project leader for the various components
(clearing and settlement, RTGS, card system, telecoms and legal framework) will be appointed who will be
responsible for coordinating all tasks required in the implementation of the given components. The
MRSMP will have recourse to specialized consultant services during project implementation and
installation of the new systems. It will, moreover, rely on input from national Consultative Payment
Committees and the Committee of Experts which would regroup bankers and other end-users.
4.3 Procurement issues:
For some of the material and equipment to be financed under the telecommunications component, BCEAO
is requesting sole-sourcing as the procurement method to be utilized. Due to inadequate
telecommunications in the region, in 1999 BCEAO set up and began operating its own private very small
aperture terminal (VSAT) satellite telecommunications network to connect its 25 offices. Since a modem
payment system requires reliable and secure telecommunications, this private network would be utilized by
- 13-



the financial community to transport payment transactions in a secure manner. The incorporation of this
network into the project would require upgrading the system and increasing its load capacity. The existing
network was acquired through international competitive bidding from the market leader at a cost of US$2.9
million. It would be necessary to acquire the expansion electronic cards and other material required for the
project from the same supplier at a cost of approximately US$1.4 million. Other materials for the telecoms
component would be procured through international competitive bidding.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management issues are discussed in C.4
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Not Applicable
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not Applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not Applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not Applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
This project does not entail interventions targeted at specific social groups. That said, it will include a
feasibility study on the use of electronic money for small payments such as electricity or water, with the
objective of increasing access to financial services to low-income households which are presently excluded
from banking services.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project has been developed in close consultation with major stakeholders. A consultative group, the
Committee of Experts, established for project preparation under BCEAO's chairmanship, met regularly to
review proposals made by consultants and to reach agreement on key aspects of the project. This
committee would continue to operate during project implementation. Eight national committees have also
been formed with the creation of sub-committees which would review and organize the implementation of
technical solutions regarding not only interbank systems but interfaces and new procedures to be installed
in each financial institution.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
- 14-



organizations?
The above consultative committees include consumer and business representatives. These end-users will
also be polled in baseline and mid-term reviews in order to establish their satisfaction with the new systems.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project implementation unit will rely on input from national Consultative Payment Committees and the
Committee of Experts, which are comprised of bankers and end-users.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
By improving the environment for private sector development, the project would have an indirect impact on
poverty alleviation. The increased security in the payments system would enable a large number of people
to switch to non-cash transactions, thereby reducing risks related to the need for them to keep cash in hand.
The study on e-money systems for very small payments, if successful, would open up opportunities for the
poor to be better integrated into the modem economy. These outcomes will be measured by performance
indicators on volumes of non-cash transactions, and through customer surveys.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project? ..
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestr (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        O Yes * No
Cutural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     C Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, HP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     OYes@No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is technically and financially sustainable. Technicians required to operate and maintain the
systems have been identified and would receive on-the-job training from specialized consultants. Each
participating institution would ensure that its staff is fully conversant with the new technologies and
methods. Operating costs of the new systems would be recovered from participating institutions, which
would in turn charge their clients for the services. Overall costs of the new system are expected to be lower
than those of the existing payment system.
Almost one-third of the total project costs are to be covered by commercial banks. This contribution of
banks to overall project costs does not constitute traditional "co-financing" but represents banks' financing
- 15-



of their own investment costs to prepare for the new system, and it is clearly in the best interests of the
banks to make the requisite investments. Most of the commercial bank financing will be used to finance the
interbank card system, which is a desirable but not necessary component to the project, and is not being
financed with IDA funds. Should several (or, in the case of the card project, all banks) opt not to proceed
with the required investment, it would not jeopardize the success of the new low value clearing and RTGS
components of the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Competition among banks does not            N        Competition among banks in the region is
increase;                                            increasing due to privitization and the entry of
new players in the market. The project would
help make end-users increasingly aware of the
benefits of improved payments.
Project benefits do not reach               N
end-users;
Banks are not committed to broaden their   N
client base.
From Components to Outputs
Participating banks are not fully          M         Most banks are keen on establishing a modem
committed to new system (they do not                 payments system, and are likely to continue to
make the investment required on time,                rely on the Committee of Experts for leadership;
they do not send highly qualified                    while some banks may be reluctant to make
representatives to the various national or            additional investment for the new inter-bank
regional consultative committees, they do            card, they understand that they cannot afford to
not actively promote the new instruments,            miss out on the new system. Moreover, in most
they are not fully committed to the                   countries, bank profitability is currently high,
inter-bank card);                                    making it an opportune moment to invest in new
technology.
System operators have difficulties with    M         Training provided under the project;
new technology and methods
Power supply and telecommunications        M          Privatization of utilities and back up system are
services are inadequate;                              improving availability of services; BCEAO will
allow use of its private satellite system
BCEAO does not regulate system             N         BCEAO is well respected as a Central Bank;
efficiently and in a transparent way;                 during project preparation it has sought
continuous dialogue with banks;
- 16 -



Legal and judicial environment             M         The Governments concerned are aware of the
deteriorates, making banks less confident            need to improve the legal and judicial
that the new system will work;                       environment for private business; it is envisaged
that the new regulatory framework for electronic
payments will rely on non-judicial recourse.
Financial environment deteriorates,        M         Macro dialogue with the eight countries
reducing the liquidity in the system.                concerned
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
e Establishment of a computerized accounting and financial management system satisfactory to IDA;
* Employment of an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
* Adoption of project's Manual of Procedures, including accounting, procurement and disbursement
procedures acceptable to IDA; and
* Employment of project accountant.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
E 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
- 17-



Ann Christine Rennie             Gerard A. Byam                    Charles Humphieys
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Dire sr            Country Manager/Director
- 18-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
AFRICA: BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
Key Performance
Hieriarchy of Objectl"           Indicatos           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Aswimptlons
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Deepen financial sector    M2/GDP ratio in WAEMU    BCEAO's annual reports and Macroeconomic stability is
member countries increases   national statistics      maintained in the WAEMU
from 23.2% in 2000 to 26% in                          area;
2003
Promote regional integration  Volume of intra-regional trade                     Political will to promote
and financial transactions                            regional integration;
increases
Improve environment for    Private investment increases
private sector development   by 15% percent p.a. on
average in the WAEMU
region
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improve efficiency and     Large value transactions   Quarterly reports from banks  Economic agents are
security of payments in the    settled real time      compiled by BCEAO and      increasingly confident that
WAEMU region                                          published on website       non-cash payments are secure,
rapid and cost effective
Payments problems are      Baseline survey and two    Regulatory environment is
reduced                    follow-up surveys of       conducive to the development
beneficiaries              of the formal sector.
Beneficiaries are satisfied with
new system
Non fiduciary transactions
increase by over 10% p.a.
- 19-



-I*#*>~~~~eyP ert  o   i m a;; 0nce' ^ ;
Output from each           Output Indicators:           Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Well functioning Real Time   RTGS: 90% of payments (in  Quarterly reports from banks  Competition among banks
Gross Settlement system    volume and amount) cleared   compiled by BCEAO          ensures that the benefits of the
(RTGS)                     in less than 15 minutes                                 project reaches the end users;
Payments are processed in the Annual surveys of
RTGS in less than 30 minutes participating banks
on average
Rejects less than 1% at end of
session
Well functioning clearing  Complaints decline over time; Client questionnaires     Banks remain committed to
system (COMPENS)           settlement completed at end of                          broaden their client base.
sessions; time required for
payment decreases from up to
15 to 2 days in-country and
from up to 25 to 3 days
inter-country by end 2003
Fees paid by end-users for
low-value transactions decline
in real terms by 25% from
year 2000 to 2004
Well functioning inter-bank   Number of cards in circulation
card system (MONETIQUE)  over 250,000 by
end 2004; number of available
POS and ATM, and number of
card transactions increase by
at least 10% p.a. once
inter-bank system is
operational.
Telecommunications system   Network response time (PING
operates satisfactorily    benchmark) less than 1
second; availability of network
over 95%; banks are satisfied
with new system
- 20 -



Key Piformance
Kilran:lu of Objecties           Indidatom           MonWtorLng 6 Evaluoin    Critical  snumepons
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Project support            (See table in main text)   BCEAO's progress reports    Committee of Experts
continues to include highly
qualified representatives from
participating institutions;
Large value payment systern                                                      BCEAO regulates system
efficiently and maintains open
dialogue with banks;
Low value payment system                                                         Systems operators have no
difficulties with new
technology and methods;
Inter-bank card system                                                           Banks proceed with
investment needed to make
the system work, are
committed to inter-bank card,
and manage their cash
balances efficiently;
Financial environment is
conducive to maintaining
liquidity of system;
Telecommunications facilities                                                    Telecommunications and
power services continue to
improve;
Legal framework is conducive
to new system and participants
agree to use non-judiciary
recourse
- 21 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
AFRICA: BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
The main objectives of the reform of payment systems in the sub-region are the following: to facilitate
economic and trade relations in the sub-region with a view to strengthening regional integration; to enhance
the penetration and the role of the financial sector in the economies of the countries concerned; to increase
the efficiency, safety, and timeliness of payment instruments available to governments, businesses and the
general population; to limit the impact (i.e. the systemic risk) of a single financial institution's failure upon
the whole financial sector; to improve instruments for monitoring and implementing BCEAO's monetary
policy in the sub-region; and to promote the development of the regional financial market.
The sub-regional dimension is an essential element of this project. Indeed, economic integration is suffering
from the inadequacy of the current payment system, which was cited as an obstacle by the business
community at the time of the project's feasibility study. Plans for a possible expansion of the monetary
union to other countries within the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) were taken
into account in the design of the project, so it should be possible to incorporate such an event without
significantly altering the system as presently designed.
By strengthening basic infrastructure in the financial sector, reducing costs and times required to effect
payments within the sub-region, and promoting new electronic payment instruments, this project is intended
to accelerate economic development and enhance the financial sector's stability and efficiency for the
benefit of all. These developments are expected to have a beneficial impact on all segments of the
population, including the most disadvantaged.
In order to monitor the project's actual impact on beneficiaries, opinion surveys will be conducted regularly
to ensure that targeted objectives have indeed been passed on by financial intermediaries to the ultimate
end-users.
The project has five main components: i) overall project support, including the legal framework and
training; ii) implementation of a real time gross payment system (the RTGS component) for operations
involving large or time-critical payments, monetary policy and payment of net clearing house settlements;
iii) implementation of a clearing system (the COMPENS component) for bulk payments, the design of
which is aimed at accelerating their transformation into electronic data exchanges; iv) establishment of a
regional interbank card system (the MONETIQUE component). The card component includes the design
and set-up of compatible technical infrastructure required to optimize bank card payment operations,
reduce costs and associated risks; and v) upgrading telecommunications infrastructure at the sub-regional
level, in order to ensure high-quality, low-cost operations. Efficient and reliable communications and data
transmittal are critical to the success of the project.
Description of components:
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.60 million
Global Project Support (GPS): US$ 2.60 million
(IDA US$1.6 M; BCEAO US$1 M)
The project support component includes project management and monitoring, procurement, training, legal
framework, and beneficiary surveys. Intemational and local consultants will be hired to help the project
- 22 -



team to manage and implement the project, establish appropriate rules and procedures, train staff of
participating institutions, and carry out surveys of beneficiaries. Approximately 60% of total costs for this
component consist of training and specialized consulting services to assist in project implementation and
development of detailed technical specifications for the various components (experts in RTGS, clearing &
settlement, card systems, legal, telecommunications, etc.). These costs will be financed under the proposed
IDA credit. The balance, representing operating costs for project management (staff, audit, accounting,
office supplies, etc.) will be paid by BCEAO.
The project's pre-feasibility studies, which have been underway for 18 months, are the responsibility of the
project unit (MRSMP) set up at BCEAO headquarters. Consultative Committees on Payments (Comites
consultatifs des paiements, CCP) have been set up in each country to ensure that objectives and system
specifications respond to strategy, objectives, requirements and constraints of financial institutions and
end-users. A Committee of Experts, composed of representatives of BCEAO and of national CCP's has
coordinated and validated pre-feasibility studies and project design. Finally, a group of international
experts (drawn from four European central banks, the World Bank and IMF) participated in meetings of
the Committee of Experts to share their experiences with defining and implementing payment system
reform in other countries or regions of the world.
This organizational structure will be strengthened for project implementation:
BCEAO's organization:
- BCEAO's Governor has ultimate responsibility for the project;
- the MRSMP is the project unit. It is headed by the Project Director (Chargee de Mission) and composed
of several full-time staff. The Project Director will be assisted by a senior international consultant during
the entire development and installation phases of the new payment systems. The project unit will be
assisted, as needed, by locally or internationally recruited short-terrn consultants charged with resolving
specific questions related to project sub-components, legal issues, or matters pertaining to training and
communication.
- at BCEAO headquarters, a Project Group, presided over by the MRSMP, will be composed of relevant
department directors and others involved in project implementation at BCEAO. The Project Group will be
in charge of specific studies and works required to implement the reform. It will be responsible for, in
particular, the adaptation of BCEAO's existing information systems and the new payment system
components under the direct responsibility of BCEAO (RTGS, COMPENS and Communication).
- within each national BCEAO office, a Technical Monitoring Committee has been created and a full-time
liaison officer has been appointed to address all issues related to the implementation of the new payment
systems.
Given the importance and specificity of each component, a team, under the authority of the MRSMP, will
be established to implement each component. Consultants will be hired, as required, to assist and
coordinate the tasks involved in implementing each component.
Stakeholder organizations:
a) In each member state:
- 23 -



The CCP, created during the feasibility study, and consisting of representatives of the banking profession,
the Treasury, the post offices' financial services, the business community and consumers has been
strengthened in its role by the establishment of specialized technical sub- committees. These committees
are regularly consulted on technical and strategic options, as well as on the procedural and organizational
arrangements necessary for the proper functioning of the new payment systems. In each country, five
sub-committees have been created to treat in-depth issues related to project design and implementation:
- treasurers' sub-committee in charge of developing detailed rules and procedures pertaining to:
management of liquidity and risks, daily timetables for clearing and settlement, supply of cash,
management of securities held by the Central Bank, international transfers, etc.
- RTGS sub-committee responsible for developing rules, standards and procedures for technical
operation and implementation of the RTGS system.
- sub-committee on clearing (COMPENS) responsible for developing detailed rules, standards and
procedures for technical operation, organization, and implementation of the clearing system.
- sub-committee on bank cards (MONETIQUE) responsible for developing detailed rules,
standards and procedures for operation of the bank card (monetique) system and for its technical
and organizational implementation, through the establishment of a regional center (Centre
monetique regional, CMR).
- sub-committee on legal and regulatory issues in charge of developing, in close collaboration with
the other sub-committees, the legal and regulatory arrangements needed to implement the new
payment systems.
b) At the sub-regional level
- a Committee of Experts, composed of representatives of the national CCPs, the Project Group, and the
project unit (MRSMP), will meet regularly to discuss options and make recommendations on questions
raised throughout project implementation. This is the same committee that participated in project design
and preparation.
The Committee of Experts will set up five sub-committees (similar to those operating in each country)
responsible, at the sub-regional level, for monitoring each component, and in particular for coordinating
project implementation within participating financial institutions.
As needed, the International Panel of Experts, which has advised on project design and preparation, may be
asked to participate in the work of the Committee of Experts.
The organizational scheme described above is represented in the following chart.
- 24 -



Council of Ministers
WAMU
...  .     .. ......   .....    
Governor
(BCEAO)
Department of Missions
and Projects.
. . . .. .. . .. .... ......... ........... ... ... . .. .. .. ... . .. ..... ..... ................ ............... .. ... ............
Monitoring                < Mission pour la             Project Group
Committee             Reforme des Systemes et             (BCEAO)
- (BCEAO) by country        Moyens dePaiement o                sub-region
(BCEAO - MRMSP)
Consultative                       .                      . Expert Committee
Payment Committee                Sub-project
Payment                       R T G s                 - CCP delegates
(CCP)
Sub-project             - International experts
COMPENSl
. OMPENS                Sub committees
Sub committees
Sub-project.
MONETIQUE                 RTGS -
RTGS -                                                         TREASURERS
TREASURERS                  Sub-project
COMPENS               .    :- - - - ----LEGAL   -          COMPENS
MONETIQUE                       Sub-project                MONETIQUE
LEGAL
LEGAL                           TELECOMMUNICATION
sub-region
by country
Note: The composition and structure of each team will be determined upon start-up of the phase with preparation
of the technical specifications for each component, and prior to the issuance of tender documents to suppliers of
systems.
IDA support is focused on project management and related issues that will ensure that the interests of all
stakeholders are taken into account. IDA financing will cover the following:
Project management:
* assistance to overall project management: an international consultant (24 months);
* assistance and training of component managers: an international consultant (6 months);
* Committee of Experts meetings to monitor project progress and ensure that recommendations made
by system participants, end-users and payment systems experts will be applied.
Training:
* assistance in implementing a plan for training of participants in the financial sector (provision for
six-month consultancy and coverage of costs associated with a training seminar in each country).
- 25 -



Legal and regulatory framework:
*   assistance with legal and regulatory issues (provision of three months consultancy).
Detailed technical specifications of sub-systems:
* assistance in developing technical specifications for the RTGS component and international tender
preparation for the supply of the relevant technical system (three-month consultancy);
*   assistance in developing technical specifications for the clearing (COMPENS) component and
international tender preparation for the supply of the technical system (three-month consultancy);
*   assistance with the establishment of an institutional framework for the card center (CMR) and for the
preparation of technical specifications for systems to be implemented under the card (MONETIQUE)
component (six-month consultancy);
*   assistance in defining specifications of the telecommunications component in order to upgrade and
improve security of existing telecommunications infrastructure as required for proper operation of the
new payment systems and international tender preparation for the supply of relevant technical systems
(three-month consultancy).
Evaluation and monitoring of results:
* implementation of baseline and follow-up surveys intended to monitor impact of new payment systems
on end-users (businesses, general population, government).
E-money:
*   feasibility study regarding the implementation of a system based on the use of e-money or smart-card
technology, e.g. for self monitoring consumption and payment of public utility charges (electricity,
water, transportation, health, etc.) by consumers, including low-income households who do not have
bank accounts.
The BCEAO will cover all other operating expenses (staff, overhead, logistics) required for project
implementation.
Project Component 2 - US$2.50 million
Real-Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS): US$ 2.5 million
(IIDA US$2.00 M; BCEAO US$0.3 M, Banks and financial institutions US$0.2 M)
The main objectives of the sub-regional RTGS system are:
*   to reduce risks associated with operations involving large value or urgent payments and risk of
systemic contagion caused by the failure of a participant due to a lack of liquidity at the time of
settlement. Without RTGS, settlement may occur at the end of the day, for example, and may
compromise the entire day's clearing operations, leading to a risk of systemic failure.
*   to ensure speed, completion and security of funds transfers throughout the sub-region, in accordance
BIS Payment System's Core Principal recommendations,
*  to foster the development of financial markets in the sub-region.
On the basis of procedures implemented within the RTGS system, large value payments, or those deemed
- 26 -



to be critical or urgent on behalf of clients or between banks (especially payments related to financial
markets, monetary policy operations, and settlement of clearinghouse operations), are final and processed
in real time by means of simultaneous debiting and crediting of participants' accounts held on BCEAO's
books.
The RTGS system is installed at BCEAO headquarters (with a back-up site), and technical platforms
(including software and hardware) are installed at the headquarters of each participant. The system
includes in particular the following modules: transaction monitoring, management of settlement accounts,
management of transactions queues, exchange of infornation with participants, and intraday liquidity
management.
Three types of participation in the RTGS system are envisaged:
*   Direct participants. who have installed the above-mentioned platformn within their own establishment
and who benefit from real-time and direct communication with the RTGS system;
* Indirect participants. who have not installed a platform in their own institution and instead use the
technical platform installed within the main BCEAO branch in each country (or the technical platfortn
of another direct participant);
*   Sub-participants, who entrust the processing of their operations to another establishment which is a
direct (or indirect) participant. In this case, the sub-participants do not have settlement accounts in
BCEAO's books. A direct (or indirect) participant represents them and assumes financial and liquidity
risks associated with these operations.
The architecture of the RTGS system is composed of three levels:
_ A technical platform, installed at the headquarters of each direct participant or, for indirect participants
and BCEAO departments, at BCEAO national branches and headquarters. About 50 access points are
envisaged.
*   A system of connection and transfer between these platforms and the central RTGS system, either via
the "transfer service" already offered in its own network by BCEAO, or by using a service based on
SWIFT FIN Service, or a combination of the two (e.g., SWIFT for financial transactions, and
BCEAO's internal network for exchanges of information) in order to reduce operating costs;
*   The central system (the heart of the RTGS) including in particular the modules for processing
transactions, liquidity management, management of queued-up transactions, settlement, and exchange
of information with participants.
The studies accompanying the preparation of detailed specifications, which are to result in an intemational tender
for the whole system, will identify the technical solutions to be implemented.
- 27 -



The following diagram shows the architecture of the RTGS in a simplified form:
Financial Institution         Financial Institution      Financial Institution
"Issuer"                Indirect Participant          "Beneficiary"
A   AA
Participant's Platform  |--   -.  Participant's Platform
BCEAO
Financial                       nNational Branch                        Finncial
order                          BCEAO Platform                         transfer
Information
NETWORKSERVICES: BCEAO Transfers /SWIFT FIN service
Core RTGS                                    BCEAO  HQ
Transaction Checking and Exchange Process
Checking and Management of Liquidity
Queuing and Optimization processing
Settlement of transaction in Settlement Account
BCEAO internal informaTion system
General Accounting ( general ledger)
Government Securities Management
Fiduciary Deposits and withdrawals Management
CFAF coverage of foreign exchange operations
In order to carry out the RTGS project, a small project team, led by a project head with, if required, the
help of a full-time consultant for the duration of the project (i.e., about 18 months) will be set up within the
BCEAO.
MRSMP          BCEAO (HQ)          lExpert Committee
lSub-Committee RTGS
Sub project team RTGS|
Representatives of Committee of Experts
- 28 -



- Project head
- External consultant (if required)
- Other consultants/experts
- (Supplier's team)
A technical sub-committee will be put in charge of monitoring and facilitating, at the sub-regional level, the
development and implementation of the RTGS system, especially within financial institutions.
IDA will finance:
* Detailed studies and preparation of specifications (cf. Component 1);
*   Full-time assistance (if required) to the head of the RTGS component (18 months of local or
international consultant services);
* Meetings of the RTGS technical sub-committee;
* The external development and supply of the RTGS application software system;
*   BCEAO's hardware equipment platform.
The BCEAO will finance other operating costs associated with the RTGS component, required adaptations
to BCEAO's internal information systems, testing and acceptance procedures.
Financial institutions (direct participants) will finance investment and installation costs of the hardware
platform required to access the RTGS system. This equipment will be supplied as part of the overall
RTGS system.
The fees to be paid by financial institutions for services provided by BCEAO, which is responsible for
operating the RTGS system, will vary depending on mode of participation and volume of operations.
Simulations performed by the consultant at the time of the feasibility study show that, given anticipated
volumes, cost per operation should be acceptable to participants. However, revised cost and billing
structures will be defined during the project implementation phase after completion of the bidding process.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.10 million
Clearing System (COMPENS): US$ 4.1 million
(IDA US$2.1 M; BCEAO US$1.4 M, Banks and financial institutions US$0.6 M)
The clearing system has the following main objectives:
* to shorten the time required for clearing checks or other paper transactions (both within and between
member states). When transactions are "out of station" or "off-site", delay should be reduced from
several weeks to three days;
* to reduce the risks and costs associated with delays and with manual procedures for handling and
transporting paper instruments;
* to promote and make possible the development and automation of new electronic payment instruments;
* to reduce the need for cash balances to cover clearing operations, by centralizing the accounts of
financial institutions held at the BCEAO at the national level, thereby eliminating the need to maintain
credit positions at each local BCEAO branch for clearing operations.
- 29 -



The principles underlying the new clearing and settlement system are as follows:
*   each financial institution branch presents, in the form of electronic data, payment transactions (checks,
notes, transfers, debits, card transactions, etc.) for which clearing and settlement is required;
*   this presentation may involve three types of transactions: in-city, in-country, or inter-country (within
the region);
*   in the case of paper instruments (checks and notes), a digitized image is attached to the clearing data in
order to facilitate control procedures by the payor institution (e.g. verification of signature);
*   these electronic files are transmitted by the payees' financial institution branch (electronically or on
diskette) to the nearest BCEAO access point (local or national branches);
*   BCEAO's access point transfers these files to the national clearinghouse system installed at BCEAO's
national branches (one per country);
*   upon receipt of these files, at a specified cut-off time, an electronic clearing process is completed at the
national level to calculate balances of each participant, with value dates assigned according to
transaction categories (for example: D (clearing date) for "in-city", D+2 for "in-country", D+3 for"
inter-country"). These dates have to be agreed and reduced progressively as technical improvements are
achieved within financial institutions;
_ each participant is informed of the overall balance that results from the clearing session and should
ensure that the balance (if it is in a debit position) to be posted in his BCEAO settlement account will
be covered when the settlement occurs about one hour later (in the RTGS system);
*   in the case of insufficient funds, all clearing balances are temporarily rejected and clearing house
participants and management will invoke the established rules (coverage, injection of liquidity,
guarantees, etc.) so that all debit balances will be covered and settlement can occur upon a second
presentation to the RTGS system;
*   once settlement has occurred (or before for information purposes), the paying banks receive all relevant
files (clearing data and images) that allow them to monitor transactions in order to accept or reject
them;
*   Rejected operations are presented again at a new clearing session, within a timeframe to be agreed
based on the quality and rapidity of the transfer and the processing of the images of the paper
instruments by the paying bank;
*   Studies are underway to define detailed procedures for payment and delivery of securities.
For archiving purposes as well as to constitute evidence in the event of a claim by a client or a financial
institution, paper instruments are transferred, separately from electronic transactions and via appropriate
circuits, from the receiving bank to the payor bank. An exchange window, which is a simple letter box, is
made available to payors and payees at BCEAO's local and main offices.
- 30 -



The system can be represented in simplified form by the following Diagram:
|Beneficiary bank   || Bac  ee                                      aosBn 
i|Beneficiary ban k                       Brnc lee              avr
t                                  | ~~~~~~~~PavorBn
Local window
Access clearing point
BCEAO (local or national branch)               r inhIi merts
BCEAO National Branch              Coutry level
Electronic____________________________________
Clearin th
of a t slearinoe (alan b 1 m nonmt)iw
MRM       E BhElOllHQ BCEEe CommiteeE
HQ                I                                             lQ
In order to carry out the clearing component, a small team, led by a project head with the help, if required,
of a full-time consultant for the duration of the project (about 12 months) will be set up within BCEAO.
MRSMP           BCEAO (HQ         )          xetComte
Sub project team CLEARING                  Sub-Committee
CLEARING
Representatives of the Committee of Experts
- Project head
- Full-time consultant (if required)
- Other consultants
- (Supplier's team)
At the sub-regional level, a technical sub-committee will be in charge of monitoring and facilitating the
development and implementation of the clearing system, particularly within participating financial
institutions.
- 31 -



IDA will finance:
*   detailed studies and preparation of specifications (cf. Component 1);
*   full-time assistance (if required) to the head of the COMPENS sub-project, for a total of 12 months of
local or international consultant time;
*   Meetings of the COMPENS technical sub-committee;
*   external development and supply of the system (software);
*   Fifty percent of the cost of BCEAO's platform servers.
The BCEAO covers other operating costs of the sub-project, adaptation of its internal information system,
testing and acceptance procedures, and fifty percent of the cost of the hardware platform for its national
branches.
Financial institutions that are members of the clearing network will finance equipment and software for the
digitization of paper payment instruments (checks, letters of exchanges), and file transfer mechanisms.
Equipment for digitizing paper instruments may be pooled on a cost sharing basis between the BCEAO and
the banks.
Project Component 4 - US$4.50 million
Interbank Card System (MONETIQUE): US$4.5 million
(EDA US$03 M; BCEAO US$0.1 M, Banks and financial institutions US$4.1)
The main objectives of setting up an interbank card system at the level of WAEMU are the following:
*   to strengthen the consistency and the image of the sub-region's financial sector by creating a WAEMU
card logo, which would be displayed on individual cards and would be promoted by joint advertising
campaigns;
*   to promote the use of electronic payment instruments to replace cash;
* to strengthen the position and bargaining power of sub-regional card issuers vis-a-vis international card
networks (such as VISA, MasterCard, etc.);
*   to reduce commissions and transaction processing costs, i.e., acquisition, transfers, authorization,
settlement, by optimizing the required technical infrastructure (equipment, networks and software), for
the benefit of banks in the sub-region;
*   to control risks (fraud) associated with electronic payments.
Two distinct approaches should be considered:
*   the establishment of an entity in charge of overall coordination and strategic decision-making on behalf
of all members of the interbank arrangement: global business strategy, legal rules, determination of
- 32 -



interbank commissions, operating procedures, certification, technical standards ensuring multilateral
compatibility of systems, etc.
*   operational management and control of common technical infrastructure in order to reduce costs and
ensure the quality of products and services offered, while at the same time controlling the risks
associated with this activity for both participant banks and clients.
The creation of a Regional Electronic Banking Center (CMR) has been agreed. This Center will be directly
responsible for oversight and cooperation activities, but it would delegate, insofar as possible, operational
activities to one or several specialized subcontractors, in order to minimize costs and guarantee that the
best quality of service is provided to all card users (cardholders, merchants and banks).
Customer relations will remain the exclusive responsibility of banks in order to ensure real competition.
General conditions and standard contracts will be developed by the CMR, but each bank will remain free to
determine the conditions (i.e., fees and levels of service) it will grant its own customers. A minimum level
of interbank service (customer's obligations and rights) will, however, need to be defined in order to: i) give
a concrete meaning to sub-regional interbank services for clients; and ii) conduct efficient promotional
campaigns.
Due to the commercial nature of the card component, the financing will be provided primarily by the
private banking community. Ultimately, the success or failure of this component will depend to a very
large degree on their efforts in marketing the product. The establishment of interbank arrangements
requires legal, economic and technical analyses, some of which are to be financed under the IDA credit.
Studies conducted by the consultant during the feasibility study served to define basic operating principles
and schemes for the bank card component. Consultant's proposals are now being analyzed in more detail
by specialized sub-committees created in April 2000 within the eight national CCPs.
- 33 -



A description of the general operating principles is presented below.
Functional Scheme (authorization)
Electronic terminals of merchants                   Automatic Teller Machines
Banks may, as they wish,
either have their terninals
linked up to their own
Transaction Acquisition Centers                      installatons or to those of a
k       C                          cononn center.
Baniks      r          I Common center(s)_
......... .  ......... ...                             l            nternationaI authorization |
r t fl r / ............. 41 ~~~~~centrs:
Banks may, as they wish,  Authorization center            Common authorization
either have their           of issuing bank                      center
authorizations processed                                     (by delegation)
out of their own
installations orfrom
those of a common
L center.
Collection of transactions:
The choice is open, with regard to the process of remote collection of transactions from POS equipment,
between the use of a bank's own centers (for its merchants) or one or several common centers. (Remote
collection is most often done in late evening or during the night.) After collection and verification by the
acquiring center (bank or common), inter-bank card transaction files will be prepared for further clearing
and settlement.
Clearing:
Interbank card operations are incorporated into payment transactions files remitted to local access points
for low value payments (see clearing system described above); however, these remittances will probably be
centralized in each country in BCEAO's main national branch.
Personalization of cards:
It would be desirable to centralize equipment and the corresponding processing, in order to ensure an
adequate level of security, and particularly in order to obtain certification from the international card
networks (such as VISA, MasterCard, etc.) and expected economies of scale.
- 34 -



Certification of merchants' terminals:
To ensure the required quality of card operations, POS terminals, whether installed by banks or by a
common service provider, will need to be pre-certified in accordance with procedures set out by the CMR.
Installation and maintenance of these POS terminals may be sub-contracted to common entities.
Each functional and technical element of the system's architecture (card production and personalization,
authorization centers, acquiring centers, risk management systems, remote transaction collection, POS and
ATM management, etc.) will be the subject of detailed specifications. International bidding will be
conducted to find the optimal technical solutions (for common equipment and systems) and provider(s) able
to provide the management of the systems and quality service at a competitive cost. The architecture will
have to be flexible in order to accommodate future growth in transaction volumes.
Benefits expected from the establishment of the interbanking arrangements described above will be
analyzed in more detail by an independent consultant in order to identify economic and technical conditions
required to ensure the profitability of this approach.
IDA will finance:
* detailed studies and preparation of specifications (international consultant: 6 months);
* full-time assistance (if required) to the head of the sub-project, for a total of 24 months of local or
international consultant's time; and
* Meetings of the technical sub-committee of the component.
Project Component 5 - US$2.80 million
Telecommunication Systenm US$2.8 million
(IDA US$1.5 M; BCEAO US$0.7 M, banks and financial institutions US$0.6 M)
The actual installation of the three systems mentioned above depends on a high-quality and efficient
telecommunications network at the regional level. The network architecture to be put in place must have
the following characteristics:
* high capacity, with the possibility of expansion, in order to handle a volume of traffic that may increase
rapidly;
* a high degree of availability;
* reliability, integrity and confidentiality of financial data;
*   uniform high quality of service at all access points in the network; and
* optimized cost.
Telecommunications providers and networks in the sub-region are not always adequate and the
interconnections between national networks among member states are inadequate. Therefore, with the
- 35 -



objective of interconnecting its 25 sites for its own requirements, BCEAO has set up and operated its own
private satellite telecommunications network since January 1999.
New communication services are required to serve the new payment system infrastructure, and the existing
network infrastructure needs to be upgraded. A component to upgrade the telecommunications
infrastructure has therefore been included in the project.
The communications system component of the project has two sub-components:
*   the "back bone" sub-regional network, that is based upon the existing private VSAT network;
*   in each capital city, the construction of an interbank network connected to the sub-regional network.
Telecommunication Infrastructure
BCEAO's Satellite network
,  t         | ~~~Comme`rci-al Banks HQ_
LRCsEAO  |    *'4                                       1 i
Capital City radio loop
1.    Sub-regional satellite network (back bone)
The implementation of the sub-regional network has the following objectives:
* to strengthen the capacity of BCEAO's internal network in order to bear the increased inter-country
traffic that will result from the introduction of the new payment systems.
* to take into account the banking community's training requirements and offer distance learning
facilities.
To interconnect its 25 sites, the BCEAO has set up a private VSAT satellite telecommunications network
acquired through international competitive bidding from the market leader, for a total cost of US$2.9
million. The network is star-shaped, with a central hub equipped with a 7.3 meter antenna installed at
BCEAO headquarters and VSAT stations at remote sites. This architecture facilitates centralized
administration, with the central hub handling system configuration and monitoring network activity.
- 36 -



The project will produce an increase in the global capacity of this infrastructure and add a
videoconferencing service to facilitate training.
2.     National interbank network
The plan is to install, in each member state's capital city, a local radio loop for in-country interbank
exchanges. All main offices of participating banks and financial institutions will be linked by radio to the
national BCEAO branch in the relevant country. This is critical for real time transactions from commercial
banks' headquarters and BCEAO's national branches.
The radio loop offers clear-cut advantages, including flexibility, ease of deployment and maintenance, and
very competitive operating costs.
Indeed, in order to handle heavy transmission traffic, the radio loop configuration requires only the
installation of an omnidirectional antenna at the national BCEAO branch and unidirectional antennae at
headquarters of individual banks. However, this technology may require that relay antennae be installed in
heavily built-up areas.
For the sub-regional network sub-component, the increase in load will require extension cards and other
equipment from the same supplier that is compatible with current installations. For videoconferencing, the
existing installation can be upgraded by installing the InTELEconference option that uses antennae already
installed at BCEAO sites, thus optimizing the use of the space satellite bandwidth. The above equipment
will be procured from the same supplier on a sole source procurement basis.
Videoconferencing terminals, as well as local radio loops, will be procured through international
competitive bidding.
To carry out this project, an internal BCEAO team has been created. In collaboration with banks and
World Bank specialists for distance learning facilities, the team will conduct preliminary studies and draw
up specifications. It will conduct bidding procedures, and monitor the execution of contracts.
IDA will finance:
* detailed studies and preparation of specifications (consultant: 3 months);
* BCEAO's satellite telecommunications system upgrade for the sub-regional network;
* BCEAO's videoconferencing system upgrade for distance training within the sub-region.
BCEAO will finance the radio communication systems to be installed in its main offices under the local
radio loop sub-component and the operating costs of the communication sub-project, including the rental of
space satellite bandwidth from Intelsat.
The participating financial institutions will cover the cost of the acquisition and installation of
telecommunications terminals supplied under the "local radio loop" sub-component.
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
AFRICA: BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
Local       For.gnTtl
Pioj;ct Cost y rn C  mpiont               US Siliond   US $mi        US miion
1. Overall project support and management                  1.27          1.33         2.60
2. RTGS                                                    0.23          2.24          2.47
3. Low Value System                                        0.99          3.06          4.05
4. Card System                                             0.54          3.91          4.45
5. Telecoms                                                0.00          2.76          2.76
6. PPF                                                     0.00          1.30          1.30
Total Baseline Cost                                        3.03         14.60         17.63
Physical Contingencies                                                                0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.30          1.33          1.63
Total Project Costs               3.33         15.93        19.26
Total Financing Required               3.33         15.93         19.26
La01I       Foreign        Total
Proj9ct Cost 0 y Category               US $million    US $Amillion   US $milfion
Goods                                                        0.00          10.74        10.74
0.00
Services                                                     0.86           1.04         1.90
Training                                                     0.00           0.29         0.29
Operating Costs                                              2.17           1.23         3.40
PPF                                                                         1.30         1.30
Unallocated                                                  0.30           1.33         1.63
Total Project Costs      3.33          15.93        19.26
Total Financing Required       3.33         15.93         19.26
- 38 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
AFRICA: BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
Economists typically analyze the benefits of an efficient payment system from two perspectives. At the
macroeconomic level, they assess the relationship between the efficiency of the system (reflected in the
velocity of the circulation of money) and the money supply for a given level of economic activity. On the
microeconomic level, their concern is with welfare losses that result from transaction costs associated with
payment systems.
While this project's benefits are quite difficult to quantify with any degree of precision, the following points
should help in assessing the cost effectiveness of the project:
Summary of benefits and costs:
There are significant macroeconomic and microeconomic benefits to developing efficient payment systems
in the WAEMU.
1. Promotion of economic activity. Payment systems promote economic activity, particularly commerce
and trade (both domestic and international). Without reliable and efficient payment mechanisms,
companies have difficulty acquiring raw materials and supplies, paying wages, and receiving payment for
delivery of goods and services. Funds which are tied up in clearing and settlement are not available for
more productive uses. Furthermore, a reliable and efficient payment system is a prerequisite for economic
players to switch progressively from the informal economy, and risks associated with it, versus the use of
financial sector services. The trend toward using more official payment infrastructure and less informal
economy will have an impact on tax collection due to a better transparency of exchanges.
2. Improved monetary policy. Large and unpredictable levels of float influence short-terrn liquidity in
the economy and create uncertainty in controlling monetary aggregates. The ability of the BCEAO to
manage the global liquidity of the financial sector in real time and adjust reserve requirements efficiently
and use indirect policy instruments through open market operations depends on a more reliable regional
payment system.
3. Financial sector development. Efficient payments systems facilitate the development of new financial
instruments, products and markets, such as debt and equity markets. In WAEMU, the current inefficient
and unreliable payment system represents an obstacle to efforts to develop a regional capital market and
government securities market. Improved payments should also lead to increased competition, better
service, and lower transaction costs in financial institutions and enable them to develop new products and
sources of fee income (card services, bank remittances).
4. Improved efficiency and cash management. The current payment system in WAEMU does not allow
banks or companies to manage their treasury operations efficiently. For example, branches of banks in the
region must now maintain liquidity in numerous accounts with correspondents or local BCEAO offices and
cannot compensate for deficiencies in one branch with excess liquidity in another. A unique and centralized
settlement account hold in BCEAO's books will allow better treasury management by financial institutions.
5. Regional integration. Despite the existence of monetary union in the region since independence,
markets remain fragmented and progress towards effective economic and financial integration has been
slow. Significant uncertainty and delays for intra-regional payments represent a significant obstacle to the
- 39 -



development of intra-regional trade. Given the small size of the economies of WAEMU member states,
increased integration is a pre-requisite to improving economic efficiency and achieving economies of scale.
The sub-regional dimension of the project in its various components will strengthen the image of the region.
6. Credit risk management. Lengthy and unreliable payments systems creates credit risk between the two
parties to the transaction, between their two banks, and possibly between the Central Bank and one or
more banks in the system. A modem payment system such as the one proposed by the BCEAO minimizes
these risks.
7. Systemic risk: One key objective of modem payment systems is to mitigate the risk that a failure of a
single financial institution puts at risk the entire sector by a domino effect: this may happen when clearing
and settlement mechanism allows that at the end of the day a large debit position of one participant cannot
be covered and all transactions of this participant have to be reversed. The architecture of BCEAO's
payment system through the protection of bulk transaction netting systems and the RTGS used for
settlement of large value transactions is designed in compliance with the BIS payment systems core
principals addressing this issue.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
The design of an efficient payment system should guarantee the lowest cost to all parties subject to
appropriate standards on speed, certainty, reliability, safety and convenience and not just the lowest cost
system available. These competing considerations often lead to multiple systems to respond to different
transaction requirements. A system for handling time critical, high value payment requires greater speed
and security (at a higher cost) than a system for handling bill payments or small checks.
Based on an analysis of requirements in the WAEMU region, and in consultation with the financial
community and end-users, the proposed three-pronged payment system (RTGS, low-value, and inter-bank
card components) was deemed to be the most cost-effective strategy. The active participation of private
commercial banks in the design and implementation of the system should also help ensure a cost effective
solution, as banks ultimately will bear most of the cost of the system, either through up-front investment or
through user fees based on full cost recovery.
The proposed costs for the various components are in line with costs of similar on-going payment system
projects in other emerging countries (Mauritius, Moldova, Estonia), and are in fact lower than they would
have been a few years ago as costs for payment system technology have been declining. The regional
approach adopted in this project further enhances cost effectiveness, as a number of smaller national
payment systems would have been significantly more costly.
The choice of an electronic clearing and settlement process. is a guarantee that the system will be able to
respond to modernization of commercial banks' operations and networks. Electronic banking operations
would be introduced as a standard type of operation in the future without the need to modify the design and
architecture of the proposed systems.
- 40 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
AFRICA: BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
Years Ending
| Year I     Year 2  | Year 3      Year 4     Year 5  | Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            2.3       10.1        2.5        1.0
Recurrent Costs             0.3        0.5         1.2        1.4
Total Project Costs           2.6       10.6        3.7        2.4        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               2.6       10.6        3.7        2.4        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   2.2        5.8         1.3       0.1
Government                 0.3         1.4        0.9        1.2
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial
Co-financiers
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.1        3.4         1.5        1.1
Others
Total Project Financing      2.6       10.6        3.7        2.4        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-41 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
AFRICA: BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
Procurement
General
1.    A Procurement Assessment Review for BCEAO was carried out in June 2000 showing that
procurement procedures in BCEAO do not conflict with Bank guidelines. No special exceptions, permits,
or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since
BCEAO's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in
its regulations.
2.     Goods financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999),
and Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. One sole
source procurement will be used for the purchase of the upgrade of the existing satellite communication
network built by BCEAO.
3.    Consultant Services financed under the credit will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in September
1997, and January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used for
appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e. those not
exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. The BCEAO staff will be briefed
during appraisal and will receive any additional clarification during negotiations about the features of the
Consultants Guidelines, in particular with regards to advertisement and bid opening.
4.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been prepared and issued in the June 30, 2000 United
Nations Development Business to advertise for major consulting assignments and any ICB. The program
elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods are summarized in
Table A below. Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are summarized in Table B below.
Goods
5.    A large volume of activities financed under the credit (US$5.8 million) will be used to procure
goods (hardware and business application software) under ICB, IS or NS, and sole source procedures.
6. For some of the material and equipment to be financed under the telecommunications component (5),
BCEAO is requesting sole-sourcing as the procurement method to be utilized. Due to inadequate
telecommunications in the region, in 1999 BCEAO set up and began operating its own private VSAT
satellite telecommunications network to connect its 25 offices. As a modern payment system requires
reliable and secure telecommunications, this private network will be utilized by the financial community to
effect payments. The incorporation of this network into the project will require upgrading the system and
increasing its load capacity. The existing network was acquired through international competitive bidding
from the market leader, at a cost of US$2.9 million. It will be necessary to acquire the expansion electronic
cards and other material required for the project from the same supplier at a cost of approximately US$1.4
million. Other materials for the telecoms component will be procured through international competitive
bidding.
-42 -



Consultant Services
7.    Consulting services financed under the credit would be for: (i) studies, preparation of bidding
documents, accounting systems, financial management support, and financial audits; and (ii) technical
assistance and consultancies on technical matters and training--skills gap analysis and skills development.
Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$2.3 million, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997 revised in September 1997,
and January 1999). Selection would be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through
Quality-and Cost-Based Selection by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and
cost evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The Project Unit (MRSMP) would
ensure widely publicized procurement notices to get candidacies from consultants. Based on agreed upon
criteria, the MRSMP will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish
short-lists.
8.    Other methods would also apply. For audits and other services of a standard nature not exceeding
$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000, the Least-Cost Selection would be the most
appropriate method -- the firm with the lowest price being selected provided its technical proposal received
the minimum qualifying mark.
9.    Consultants services for small and simple services, for small studies and technical assistance (for
contracts not exceeding US$50,000 and up to an aggregate amount of US$1.1 million) would be based on
Consultants' Qualifications, based on the consultants' experience and competence relevant to the
assignment.
10.   Services for small studies and technical assistance which can be delivered by individuals, may be
selected through comparison of qualifications among Individual Consultants expressing interest in the
assignment or approached directly.
IDA Reviews
11.   Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of US$100,000 equivalent for goods will be
subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would cover about 65% of the contract
amounts for goods and consultants (see Table B below). Selective post-review of contracts awarded below
the threshold level will apply to about one in three contracts and will be carried out by Bank staff, using
audits, and other consultants, as necessary.
12.   Bank staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the
Borrower. Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the review of budgets, short-lists,
selection procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract awards, and negotiated contracts.
Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, respectively. However, the exception
to prior IDA review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of their value, to
single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determnined by IDA, or to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value above the above-mentioned prior review thresholds.
13.   Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions.
14.   For training abroad and in-country, the program (containing names of candidates, costs estimates,
- 43 -



content of courses, periods of training and selection of training institutions) will be reviewed by IDA
annually.
15.    Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: one supervision mission every six
months will include special procurement supervision for post-review/audits.
16.    Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any material
extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would increase aggregate cost
by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower should specify the reasons thereof and seek IDA's
prior no-objection for the proposed modification.
Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements
17.    The MRSMP, the project unit of BCEAO in charge of the project, would be entrusted with
processing all procurement services as defined in the project's Manual of Procedures.
Procedures Manuals
18.    A procedures manual acceptable to IDA will be established as a condition of effectiveness. The
Project's procedures manual and internal organization would include, inter alia: (i) procedures for calling
for bids, consultants, and vendors, and awarding contracts; and (ii) disbursement procedures. The Manual
of Procedures will be submitted to IDA for approval prior to credit effectiveness.
19.    Payment to Contractors. The BCEAO has agreed with IDA in principle to open a special account
in its books.
20.    Prior to effectiveness, the BCEAO will submit and agree with IDA on: (a) a draft procurement
plan for the first year; (completed) and (b) the Manual of Procedures. The BCEAO will also give
assurances that it will: (a) use the procedures manual; (b) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for
ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation
reports; (c) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (d) update the
procurement plan /indicating compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement,
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances
for contingencies, as well as revised timing of estimated procurement actions on a regular basis to compare
target times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all
procurement-related documents; and (e) carry out, during quarterly reviews, an assessment of the
effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance, as they relate to the program's procurement
experience, and propose for IDA any modification to the current procedures to the extent that would
accelerate procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and
adequate control over contract awards and payments.
21.   The BCEAO will take the necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the
following target time periods:
Procurement Phases                         Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents           4
-44 -



Preparation of bids by bidders            4
Bid evaluation                            4
Signature of contracts                    4
Payments                                  4
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category          ICB           NCB           Other           B.       Total
1. Works                                                                                  0.00
()            ()            ()            ()          (0.00)
2. Goods                          5.70           0.50          1.50          4.10         11.80
(3.90)        (0.50)        (1.50)        (0.00)       (5.90)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00          3.70          0.00         3.70
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. p.m. PPF                       0.00           0.00          1.30          0.00          1.30
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.30)        (0.00)        (1.30)
Total                           5.70          0.50          6.50          4.10         16.80
(3.90)        (0.50)        (2.80)        (0.00)       (7.20)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/
-45 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
E-t0xpenjdi;00tur  QBs    QBS       SFB       WS        CQo       thier    N.&.  Totl Cost
A. Firms           0.60      0.00      0.00      0.20      0.00      0.50      0.00      1.30
(0.60)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.50)    (0.00)    (I. 1 0)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.10      0.00      0.00      1.10
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (I. I0)    (.00)    (0.00)    (I.10)
Total   0.60      0.00      0.00     0.20      1.10      0.50      0.00      2.40
(0.60)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.10)    (0.50)    (0.00)    (2.20)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-46 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                  $100,000 and above             ICB              All contracts exceeding
$100,000 threshold
under $100,000     LCB & National Shopping          ($7.0M)
3. Services
4.Consultants/training    $100,000 and above       QCBS + short list      TOR, short-lists, draft
contracts, and selection
reports; ($1.1 M)
$50,000 to 100,000            QBS                  TOR ($0.3M)
under $50,000                CQ
5. RoutinelStandard        Less than $50,000          Least Cost
contracts Miscellaneous
6.Miscellaneous                  All                     DC                      $1 .4M
(telecom equip.)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$8.05 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-47 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1enditure Category           Amount in US$mlflon           Financing Peorcen
Materials and equipment                     5.20                          100%
Consultants                                  1.90                         100%
Training                                    0.29                          100%
PPF                                          1.30                      Amount Due
Unallocated                                 0.74
Total Project Costs                         9.43
Total                                        9.43
NB: BCEAO is exempt from all taxes and duties in Member states
Financial Management Arrangements
General
I .    A financial management system, acceptable to IDA, will be established for the Payment System
Project. The financial management system will provide accurate and timely information regarding resources
and expenditures. It will include accounting, financial reporting and auditing elements as well as
procurement monitoring. As required by Bank's policies and procedures (OP/BP 10.02), a financial
management specialist was involved in the project from the preparation stage to ensure that financial
management requirements are correctly addressed. This involved an assessment of the project's financial
management capacity to identify any need of improvement in order to fully comply with Bank's
requirements and project's needs. Based on the results of this assessment, the arrangements for the project'
s financial management were defined with the client along with a detailed action plan (see table below) to
ensure that a sound financial management system would be in place by credit effectiveness at the latest.
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
2.    Implementation arrangements: The project implementation over four years would be coordinated
by a special unit created within BCEAO composed of staff from existing departments assigned to the
special unit for the duration of the project with the assistance from specialized consultants (the MRSMP).
With regards to the project's financial management system, it was envisaged to develop it as a subsystem
of BCEAO's main accounting system or as a separate system. Both options were examined and the
separate system was chosen for reasons detailed in the assessment hereafter.
3.     Organization of the accounting function: BCEAO's accounting system is under the responsibility
of the Accounting and Budget Department composed of the following units: Headquarters accounts unit,
Central accounts unit, Budget unit. The Headquarters accounts unit ensures the control and the posting of
all transactions related to the headquarters accounts. It prepares the headquarters financial statements and
defines accounts' balances to be consolidated by the Central accounts unit in the overall financial
statements. The mission of the Central accounts unit is to consolidate financial information from BCEAO's
- 48 -



national branches and from the headquarters in view of presenting consolidated financial statements. The
Budget unit has the responsibility for the preparation and implementation and monitoring of the
headquarters' budget. It also ensures the consolidation of the national branches' draft budgets before
presentation to the Board of Directors for approval.
4.     Description of the existing accounting system: According to BCEAO's statutes, the accounting
operations are posted with respect to commercial and banking practices. BCEAO accounts are kept as
described in the Accounting Manual composed of five volumes which deal with the following aspects: i)
general accounting principles; ii) the chart of accounts, accounting entries posting and approval
procedures; iii) entries treatment for each type of accounting transaction; iv) mechanisms for transactions'
approval and control of accounts reports. The accounting system is decentralized. Transactions are initiated
within the operational departments where manual entry forms are prepared. After approval by the managers
in charge, these forms are transmitted to the Accounting Department accompanied by supporting
documents for control and processing, including several levels of checks, control and approval of items
posted before these items are validated into the books of accounts.
5.     Consolidated financial information is available from the system every 10 days and monthly. The
annual financial statements are audited by independent audit firms.
6.     BCEAO has a computerized double entry accounting system, which is undergoing many changes
within the framework of the modernization of the information system decided by management in 1997.
These changes include a new chart of accounts and revised entry treatment for accounting transactions. The
objective is to reach compliance with international accounting standards. The new system is expected to be
in place around December 2000.
7.    Assessment of the project's accounting system: As BCEAO is a well-established institution, the
first option envisaged was to keep the project's accounts within BCEAO's main accounting system.
Implementation of such an option would require some adjustment to ensure that the project's transactions
would be recorded and reported on in detail and scope commensurate with World Bank financial
management requirements and the project's information needs. In this respect, all possibilities were
discussed with representatives from BCEAO Accounting and Information Technology departments. These
possibilities would include defining an additional set of accounts to the existing chart of accounts to record
separately transactions related to the project or creating a separate cost center for the project within the
main accounting system. The current situation of the accounting system does not allow the creation of a
separate cost center for the purpose of the project's accounting. Creating a separate set of accounts for the
project within the existing accounting system would be difficult to handle. In fact, the current system is not
flexible enough to be customized according to the financial information needs of the project such as
monitoring transactions by expenditure categories, project activities, budget planning and implementation,
reporting on financial implementation. In other words, the current situation does not allow a sub-system for
the project within the main accounting system to meet the Bank's accounting and financial reporting
requirements and the project's financial information needs.
8.     The new system to be put in place should be able to overcome the shortcomings presented above,
however its timing is not suitable for the project. Therefore, it was noted that a separate autonomous
financial management system would be more appropriate for the project for the following reasons. Such an
option would meet both the project's financial information needs as well as the Bank's financial
management requirements. Given that this autonomous system for the project does not exist yet, it could
not be formally assessed at this stage of project preparation. The assessment consists rather in identifying
the needs to be fulfilled and defining an action plan to show how the implementing entity can develop
- 49 -



appropriate financial management capacity in order to ensure that an adequate financial management
system satisfying Bank's requirements will be in place prior to project effectiveness at the latest. Therefore,
the following paragraphs present recommendations to achieve this objective.
Financial Management Arrangements
9.     Accounting software: The project would be equipped with a multi-currency accounting software
capable of recording and reporting the project's operations by component, sub-component, activity, and
expenditure category, regardless of the origin of funds. The software should also offer a budget planning
and monitoring module, a contract monitoring module and a reporting module capable of generating the
periodic project management reports required under the Financial Management Initiative, formerly known
as LACI. Detailed terms of reference for the selection of the accounting software were prepared by
BCEAO. They were submitted to and approved by IDA during project preparation. The software should
be installed and functioning satisfactorily to IDA prior to effectiveness.
10.   Accounting procedures: Besides the accounting software, it is necessary to assess the procedures
that will be used to implement the project's activities. This is done below. As mentioned above, BCEAO
has detailed procedures presented in a five-volume accounting manual. In addition, several guidelines were
issued to describe specific procedures such as procurement of goods and services, monitoring and
depreciation of fixed assets, posting certain types of transaction, etc. Overall BCEAO procedures are
satisfactory in terms of internal control. Also, as BCEAO is a well-established and respected institution, it
would generally be more appropriate that they use their own procedures to implement the project insofar as
they are satisfactory. However, following discussions with BCEAO staff, it was noted that the existing
procedures could be cumbersome due to the number of people involved in the approval process and the low
level of delegation. BCEAO budgetary and accounting procedures include excessive pre-payment measures
and are characterized by insufficient delegated responsibility so that even small payments require
authorization at a high level of management and must go through a large number of checks and controls.
11.    This situation might be inappropriate for the implementation of the project. Therefore, it was
deemed desirable to have simplified procedures applicable to the project while maintaining internal control
procedures that would ensure that funds are safeguarded. In fact, while recognizing the need to facilitate
project implementation through simplified procedures, it is also important to avoid dismantling existing
checks and controls without substituting adequate new measures. For this reason, it was agreed during
project preparation that this concern would be addressed through a manual of accounting procedures to be
developed for the project. This manual would be based on existing procedures, which would be simplified
for more flexibility and rapidity while respecting the internal control requirements. The manual would be
tailored to the project's needs. This would include a description of the accounting system: (chart of
accounts, cost accounting coding, accounting standards to be applied for the project, presentation of main
account entries, format of the project's financial statements and other reports including PMR, diaries, filing
system, etc.), various operational procedures (budget planning and monitoring, procurement, recording
transactions in the books of accounts, disbursement, reporting, etc.). As the project's expenditures are an
integral part of BCEAO accounts and should be reflected in BCEAO financial statements, the scope of the
manual will include coordination mechanisms between the project's and BCEAO central accounting
systems to ensure all project transactions are also posted in BCEAO accounts. The draft manual was
submitted to IDA for approval prior to negotiations. The adoption of the manual, satisfactory to IDA,
is a condition of effectiveness.
12.   Financial reporting: Separate financial statements will be prepared for the project. They will
comprise: i) a statement of Source and Application of Funds for the project during the current financial
year and cumulatively since the start of the project, and ii) a balance sheet. These two financial statements
- 50 -



will be prepared annually. In addition, an agreement was reached during negotiations to submit a quarterly
report using the PMR (Project management Report) models including financial statements,
procurement/contracts schedule and output monitoring, one month after the end of each quarter. BCEAO
will also provide it own annual reports to IDA.
13.   Auditing: The financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA.
Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the
audited period. The auditor will provide an opinion on: i) the project financial statements (statement of
Source and Application of Funds and Balance sheet); ii) the statement of expenditures (SOE); iii) the
special account (SA).
14.   The auditor will also issue a separate management report on Internal Controls and operational
procedures outlining any recommendations for improving internal accounting controls and operational
procedures identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
15.   As BCEAO financial statements are for each year audited by independent auditors, BCEAO asked
during project preparation whether they could keep the same auditor to audit the project's accounts. IDA
should have no objection to such an option provided that the auditor is acceptable to IDA and the work is
done based on termns of reference approved by IDA. BCEAO is in the process of changing their auditor but
the selection is not finalized yet. If the selected audit firm was not acceptable to IDA, a separate selection
process would have to be launched for the audit of the project's accounts. In any case, the appointment of
an auditor acceptable to IDA for the project according to terms of reference satisfactory to IDA is a
condition of effectiveness.
16.   Accounting staffing: BCEAO has a large number of accounting staff with the required
qualifications although with limited experience of project accounting. Discussions with representatives
from the Accounting and Budget Department confirmed that they should have no major difficulty to satisfy
the project's accounting requirements. Nevertheless, as the weaknesses identified above regarding the
procedures apply also to the accounting and budget department, the project implementation team
recommended that a full-time accountant be assigned to the project. This suggestion aims at ensuring that
the project's accounting is kept up-to-date and provides timely and regular information. The appointment
of the accountant according to terms of reference and qualifications approved by IIDA will be a
condition of effectiveness. Depending on workload, BCEAO is considering whether the appointment will
be done by reassigning an accountant from the accounting department to the project or by recruiting
someone from outside BCEAO. In any case, the work of the accountant will be done under the supervision
of the accounting department as will be detailed in the project manual of procedures to be developed.
Use of the PMR-based disbursement method
Based on the description above, all the tools necessary to prepare quarterly PMR should be in place by the
date of effectiveness. These tools consist of the computerized financial management system and the manual
of administrative and accounting procedures. The computerized financial management system will be
customized to the specific needs of the project to allow an automatic generation of the quarterly PMR
according to the models presented in the LACI Implementation Handbook and Financial Management
Manual (draft version). However given that a new system has to be installed and despite all measures
proposed above to develop appropriate financial management capacity, it is recommended to begin with
traditional disbursement arrangements through a Special Account and SOEs (statements of expenditures).
It is expected that after a period of 18 months of project implementation, the project's financial
management capacity will be strengthened enough to prepare accurate PMRs that could be used as a basis
- 51 -



of disbursement as required under Financial Management Initiative (FMI). A new assessment of the
financial management system will be done by March 31, 2002 to determine compatibility with the FMI and
to propose the use of the PMR-based disbursement method or any strengthening action plan necessary to
meet the FMI requirements
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for contracts below the
value of $100,000 equivalent for goods, $100,000 for consulting firms, and $50,000 for individual
consultants, training, and incremental operating costs for which disbursements would be based on
Statements of Expenditures (SOE's). Supporting documentation for SOE's would be retained by the
borrower for review by IDA missions and external auditors. All expenditures above the thresholds
indicated above would be eligible for direct payment.
Special account:
Under Traditional Procedures. In order to facilitate project implementation, BCEAO will open a Special
Account. The authorized allocation CFAF 600,000,000 or equivalent) will cover four months of eligible
expenditures. Upon effectiveness, an amount representing 50% of the authorized allocation will be
deposited into the Special Account. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly. The
applications will include details identifying the amounts withdrawn.
Under PMR Disbursements. Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the
lesser of: a) the amount requested; and b) the amount which IDA has determined, based on the Project
Management Report accompanying the application, is required in order to finance eligible expenditures
during the following six-month period, provided the total account balance does not exceed the equivalent of
US$4,000,000.
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
AFRICA: BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       19                           30
First Bank mission (identification)              03/15/98                     03/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                      08/15/99                      08/28/2000
Negotiations                                     10/15/99                     09/05/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    01/15/2001
Prepared by:
BCEAO
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Ann Rennie                        Task Leader, AFTPF
Charlie Garrigues                 Senior Payment System Specialist, FSD
Jer6me Chevallier                 Consultant
Olivier Lambert                   Financial Specialist
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye          Financial Management Specialist, AFMSN
Claudine Morin                    Senior Counsel, LEGAF
Josette Percival                  Language Team Assistant, AFTPS/F
Amy Champion                      Operations Assistant, AFTPS
Bourama Diaite                    Consultant, Procurement
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
AFRICA: BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Timetable for Project Implementation (5/19/00)
*   Procurement Plan (June, 2000)
*   Cost Tables by component (June 2000)
*   BCEAO Project Presentation to WAEMU Banks April, 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Aide-memoire, Back-to-Office Report, May, 1998
*   Back to Office Report, July, 1998
*  Aide- Memoire, November 1998
*   Aide-Memoire, January, 1999
*   Presentation to BCEAO, April, 1999
*   Aide-Memoire, March, 1999
*  Aide-Memoire and Back to Office Report, May, 1999
*   Aide-memoire and Back to Office Report, June, 2000
*   Minutes of PCD Review Meeting, April, 2000
-   Financial management capacity assessment
*   Minutes of Decision Meedting, August, 2000
*  Aide-Memoire and Back to Office Report, September, 2000
C. Other
*   Call for Bids for Feasibility Study, July, 1998
=  Consultants' Terms of Reference and bid documents, July 1998
   Ernst & Young Feasibility Study, Phase 1,June 1999
= Ernst & Young Feasibility Study, Phase 2, October 1999
Ernst & Young Feasibility Study, Phase 3, January 2000
*Including electronic files
- 54 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
AFRICA: BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions      disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                  Purpose                                 IBRD    IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
NOT
APPLICABLE
Total:
- 55 -



AFRICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
NOT APPLICABLE
Total Portfolio:
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
AFRICA: BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
UEMOA at a glance
2/1 81D
Low &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                       midde
UEMO      Income       Development dtamontr
1998
Population, mid-year (IWlilIOns)                                 66.6   4,889.8                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atfas metomdI US$)                                390      1,260
GNP (Atlas methoc, USS billions)                                  26.0   6,123.6
Average annual growth, 199248
Population (%)                                                     2.8       1.5
Labor torte ()                                                     2.7       1.9     GNP                              Gross
per                            primnary
Most recernt esimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                capia                        enrollment
Poverty (% o(popularlon below national poverty fine)
Urban population (%" of total populaio0n)                          33        41
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                   48        65
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bIrths)                           99        59
Child malnutdtion (% o(childen undter5)                                        ,               Access to safe water
Access to safe taler (% otpopuladon)                               SS        75
Iliteracy(% orpopulaton age 15+)                                   66        27
Gross primary enrdoment (% ofschool-age populaton)                 63       107               UEMOA
Male                                                             74       110               Low & mikdle Income group
Female                                                           51       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1988      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                            16.3     25.0      25.3       27.0
Goss domestic investment/GDP                  24.1     15.5       17.8      18 .
Exports of goods and serfces/GDP              29.3     25.3      33.7       32.4                     Trade
Grossdomesticsasngs/GDP                       15.0      9.7       15.D      15.8
Goss national savingsdGOP                     15.5      7.4       12.0      14.1
Current account balance/GOP                  -14.3     -9.2       -6.9      -6.4     D
Interest payments/GDP                          1.6      2.6        2.3       2 9     Domestic                     biveotment
Total debt1GOP                                44.2     98.6      115.3     107.4     Savings    +
Total debt servce/eVporls                     13.9    27.7        21.3      22.5
Present wlue of debt/GOP                                                    82,4
Present alue of debt/e,orts                                                235.2
Ihdebtedness
1978-88  1988-98      1997      1998
(average annual gfwth)
GDP                                            0.9      2.6        5.4       4.8         .     UEMOA
GNP per capita                                -2.3      0.0        2.9       2.6               Low & rniddle income gMup
Exports of goods and seces                     2.6      3.3        6.8       1.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988      1997      1998      Growth or investment andrdur I%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                   32.1     32.4       30.7      30.7
Industry                                      16.4     19.9       20.9      21.5     10
Manufacturing                                8.4      14.3      14.1      14.5
seraces                                       51.4     47.7       48.5      47.9 o
d1    94   95   94   07 99
Private consumption                           70.5     75.3       73.1      72.9    orc I
General government consumption                14.6     15.0       11.9      11.3              .Qr I          - -DP
Imports of goods and services                 38.3    31.0        36.6      35.3                    GD_         GCP
1978-88  1988-98      1997      1998      arowtn of exports and imports (7)
(average annual growth)                                                              is
Agrculture                                     1.4      2.8        1.5       3.1     1
Industry                                       3.8      3.3        9.9       8.1 1    o
Manufacturing                                3.3       2.6       8.7       7.9      s
Servces                                       -0.2      2.1        6.4       4.8
Private consumption                            1.2                 4,77  4   5.9        .         iJ4J   a5         97   go
General government consumption                 0.7      0.4        53       -0.5      s
Gross domestic investment                     -5.1      4.2       10.4      13.0    10
Imports of goods and serfces                  -0.5      1.7        6.5       5.4               -Ewts         .   Imponx
Gross national product                         0.6      2.9        5.7       5.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estigrates. This table was produced from the Development Erconomics ceetral database.
UEMOA (West Afican Economic and MonetaryUnion) indudes Benin, Burkina Faso, Cdte dchoire, Guinea-Bissau. Mali. Niger, Senegal,
and Togo. The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (n bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing,
the diamond will be incomplete.
-57 -



UEA10
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978     1988      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic pnces                                                                      4
(% change)
Consumer prices                                3.4      5.6       3.4       2.6    30-
Implicit GOP deflator                          7.7      0.9       3.1       3.1    20
Government finance                                                                  10
(% or GDP, includes current grants)                                                  0,
Current revenue                                 ..    18.8       17.0      16.8             93   94   s5   96   97   98
Current budget balance                          ..    -2.7        3.0       3.9                -GDP deflator  -Q--CPI
Overall surplusideficit                         ..    -7.9       -3.1      -3.1     _
TRADE
1978     1988      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             ,    6,601      8,782     8,479     o0,00
Manufactures                                   ..   1,182      1,541    1,517      750
Total imports (cit)                                   5,870     7,509     7,646
Food                                          .. 1,277         1,429    1,469      500
Fuel and energy                               ..    603        1,140    1,012      2,500 i*
Capital goods                                 ..   1,252       1,695    1,823
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      64        100       101    !        2   93  94  5   5   97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      57        110      105             M CExports    E Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..    113          91        96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1978    1988      1997      1998      CurrentaccountbalancetoGDP(%)
(UsS$ milions)ll
Exports of goods and services                4,762    6,297     8,650     9,078      0
Imports of goods and services                6,392    7,913     9,073     9,628     -
Resource balance                            -1,631   -1,615      -423     -550
.4
Net income                                    -455   -1,268    -1,044     -980
Net current transfers                        -7          58                  1
Current account balance                     -2,330   -2,301     -1,734    -1,728     -
Financing items (net)                        2,249    2,416     1,965     1,629    |- +
Changes in net reserves                        81      -115      -231       100     12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        749      919      2,229     2,495
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         7,198   24,665    29,151    29,033
IBRD                                        211    1,818      1,058      950                  G: 2,370  A: 950
IDA                                         301    2,146      5,777     6,440
Total debt service                            709    1,922      1,924     2,012       F 4443                      B: 6,440
IBRD                                         21      316       254       215
IDA                                           2       25         76       85
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                      : _ k _   {
Official grants                             452    1,090      1,388     1,569                                      c 1,515
Official creditors                          507      745        228      369                                              I
Private creditors                          1,014      -19      -441     -300
Foreign direct investment                   215       80        587      527            E- 9,487               :3828
Portfolio equity                              0        0         18        6
World Bank program
Commitments                                 137      425        537      638      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               126      432        415      500      B - IDA    D- Other mutilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          5      155        199      187      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   121      277        216      313
Interest payments                            18      186        130      113
Net transfers                               103       92         85      199
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                        2/18/00
UEMOA (West African Economic and Monetary Union) includes Benin, Burkina Faso, C6te dIvoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger,
Senegal, and Togo. Inflation figures are median values. Balance of payments items excluding exports and imports are simple
sums and may not reconcile.
- 58 -



