Report No. PID9055
Project Name                     Africa Region-BCEAO Regional (@)
Payment Systems Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Finance
Project ID                       3APE54884
Borrower(s)                      BCEAO
Implementing Agency
Address
BCEAO (Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest)
Dakar, Senegal
Contact Person: Mme. Fatimatou Zahra Diop,
M. Jean-Claude Brou
Tel: 221-839-05-00;
Fax: 221-823-93-35
Email: fzdiop@bceao.int; jbrou@bceao.int
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 16, 2000
Projected Appraisal
Date                             December 8, 2000
Projected Board Date             September 26, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The present payment system is a constraint to the development of business
and banking services in the WAEMU area. It is slow, unreliable,
cumbersome and costly to all participants. The formal sector is still
narrow in the WAEMU region, and most monetary transactions are in cash.
The number of bank accounts is small: it is estimated that less than 6.4
percent of the estimated 24 million active population in the region have a
bank account compared to 90 to 95 percent in developed countries. The
daily average volume of checks, representing about 80 percent of non-cash
transactions, was only around 35,000 in 1996.In the 1980s, poor
macroeconomic policies and mismanagement of banks, many of them in the
public sector, led to economic decline and a financial sector crisis in
most member countries. The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994,
supported by economic reform programs, has restored a healthy export-led
growth in most countries of the area. Most countries have also
implemented far-reaching reform programs in their own financial sectors,
including privatization of banks and reinforcement of supervision at the
regional level by the Banking Commission.Because, inter-alia, the present
payment system is not efficient, the inter-bank market in the WAEMU area
is almost non- existent despite diverging financing requirements among
member countries throughout the year. Most bank refinancing is done
through BCEAO. Over-liquid banks have few opportunities for investing
their funds, and therefore tend to keep high balances with the Central
Bank at low interest rates. On the other hand, banks in need of
refinancing borrow from the Central Bank, but at a higher cost than they
would get on the inter-bank market. Until recently, the telecommunications
sector was a major stumbling block to the development of an efficient



payment system. In most countries, telecommunications are being
privatized, however, which should improve service reliability and reduce
costs over time. In recent years, banks in the region have invested
heavily in the development of information technology, including for
addressing the Y2K issue. BCEAO has also recently developed its own
satellite network to connect its 8 national (agence principale) and 15
local branches (agence auxiliaire) in WAEMU countries. This
infrastructure will be used as the basis for improving the payment systems
at a relatively low cost.The legal framework, including inter-bank rules
and procedures to ensure that payment transaction processing is fully
compatible from one participant to the other, and fully transparent for
banks' clients, needs to be strengthened, in particular with regards to
electronic payments.
2. Objectives
The primary objective of the project is to establish and install an
appropriate set of regional payment mechanisms to satisfy the evolving
needs of all market sectors in the West African Economic and Monetary
Union (WAEMU) - consumer, retail, industrial, commercial, government,
financial markets, and international - for making payments in a safe,
sound, secure and timely manner with certainty and at an acceptable cost.
A secondary, but nevertheless equally important objective, is that the new
payments systems satisfy internationally accepted standards and core
principles and thus ensure a high level of user confidence in the WAEMU
financial systems.A well-functioning payments, clearing and settlement
system is key to an efficient financial sector, and plays an important
role in reducing credit, liquidity and systemic risks in the system. By
supporting the implementation of a state-of-the-art payment system for the
entire WAEMU region, the project would contribute to the development of
non-cash transactions, the strengthening of banks, the deepening of the
financial sector, and, more generally, increased regional integration and
the expansion of trade and investment among and within member countries.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has supported the reform of the financial sector in five
countries out of the eight concerned, through adjustment lending,
technical assistance and investment lending. The Bank has been
instrumental in mobilizing funds for project preparation and for promoting
an open dialogue between stakeholders during project preparation. A bank
payment system expert has attended key meetings of the Committee of
Experts, and, drawing lessons from experience around the world, has
provided critical input to help build a consensus on technical and
institutional issues. The Bank has assisted BCEAO in the creation of an
international advisory panel composed of representatives of the central
banks of Belgium, France, Swizterland, Portugal, and a representative from
the IMF.BCEAO is a key player in the WAEMU region for promoting financial
sector and fiscal stability and economic reform. Developing and
maintaining a partnership with BCEAO is paramount for the Bank's
macroeconomic and financial sector work in the eight member countries.
This project would build on the ongoing dialogue and help BCEAO introduce
modern payments instruments and efficient clearing and settlement
processes with the support of the banking community in the area.
4. Description
The project includes five components:    (i) project support; (ii) a real
- 2 -



time gross settlement system (RTGS); (iii) a low value clearing system
(COMPENS); (iv) an inter-bank card system, including a feasibility study
for e-money (Monetique); and (v) a common telecommunications and computer
infrastructure based on BCEAO's facilities.The project support component
includes project management and monitoring, training, procurement, legal
framework, and beneficiary surveys. International and local consultants
will be hired on a temporary basis to help the project unit (Mission pour
la Reforme des SystOmes et Moyens de Paiement, MRSMP) manage and implement
the project, establish appropriate rules and procedures, train staff of
participating institutions, and carry out surveys of beneficiaries.The
RTGS component includes the establishment of a real time gross settlement
system at the regional level. The system would be open to banks and other
financial institutions, who would have to select one of two modes for
participating. A direct participant would access its own account at BCEAO
and have a direct technical on-line access to the RTGS. An indirect
participant would have a settlement account managed by BCEAO, but no
technical access to the RTGS. A non-participating financial institution
could be represented by a direct or indirect participant. In that case,
the institution would have no settlement account with BCEAO. The direct
or indirect participant would be financially responsible for all
transactions made on behalf of that institution.The RTGS system is
intended to meet the demand for high value or time-sensitive payments of
the wholesale sector of the market (inter-bank transactions, securities
settlement, BCEAO monetary operations, settling of the daily net balances
of the low value clearing and settlement system, and time critical
payments in the corporate and government sectors). It would settle the
payment leg of securities transactions held by BCEAO with a direct link
with the delivery of securities. The settlement of the payment of
securities traded on the Regional Stock Exchange (RSE) could also be made
through the RTGS. By 2003-04, it is estimated that the RTGS system would
process about 250,000 transactions annually. A key objective of the RTGS
is to mitigate the risk that failure of a single financial institution
puts the entire system at risk. This may happen when a large debit
position of a participant cannot be covered and all transactions need to
be reversed. The proposed RTGS will be designed in compliance with Bank
of International Settlements (BIS) payment system principles which address
this risk. The low value clearing component would upgrade existing systems
at the national and regional levels to make them more efficient. It is
designed to meet the daily low-value payment needs of a broad spectrum of
users, including consumer, retail, commercial, industrial, and
government. It would also cover a variety of payment instruments (checks,
automatic debits and credits, payment orders, card payments, etc.). To
avoid the drawbacks associated with the clearing and transport of paper, a
new scheme has been designed. It would allow a payee's bank to present
all its national instruments to the nearest and most convenient local or
national BCEAO branch. All paper transactions, including outstation
transactions, would be given locally to the payor's bank at the same
locations as the former clearing houses (e.g., BCEAO offices). The
payor's bank would have the responsibility to inform the payee's bank of
a payment rejection within an agreed number of days due to transaction
and fund availability control. In parallel, interbank clearing and
settlement would be done on the basis of electronic files: local
transactions and local bilateral balances would be sent by local BCEAO
branches and consolidated at the national level for settlement.Initially,
settlements would be made using the current accounts of participating
- 3 -



banks held at national branches of BCEAO. When the large value clearing
and settlement system (RTGS) is in place, accounting and settlement of
national multilateral balances would be processed directly in this
system. By 2004, it is estimated that this system would process about 20
million transactions annually. The inter-bank card system would develop a
common bank card product, enabling any bank customer to use it in any
Automated Teller Machine (ATM) or participating merchant's facility (Point
of Sale - POS) in the sub-region. This component would include the
formulation of a regulatory framework and contractual arrangements, the
establishment of a center in charge of regulating the system on behalf of
banks and maintaining relations with international bank card networks like
VISA, MASTERCARD, etc. The center could subcontract technical operations
to one or more service providers in order to minimize costs, share
investments, and increase the reliability and security of the system. It
is estimated that in 2003-04, about 250,000 cards would be in use,
resulting in about 5 to 10 million transactions annually. The success of
the card component, which is being financed largely by commercial banks in
the region, will ultimately depend on the efforts of these banks in
marketing the card as a desirable product. The project would include a
feasibility study on the use of e-money systems, such as smart cards, for
small payments as a means of expanding the use of non-cash means of
payment to those who do not currently have bank accounts, including the
poor.  Payment of electricity bills, for example, 90t of which are
currently paid in cash, could be targeted for this study. For all three
payments systems described above, the BCEAO's telecommunications satellite
network would be used to effect transactions with a high degree of
security and at low cost. Local networks would have to be built and
secured for connecting banks' local branches and ATMs and POS facilities.
Banks would finance the cost of developing the local networks and would
utilize BCEAO's telecommunication facilities, as appropriate, to minimize
costs.Project Costs by Component
Project support
Real Time Gross Settlement System
Clearing System
Bank Card System
Telecommunications
PPF (Regional stock exchange)
Contingencies
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       3.88
IBRD
IDA                              9.43
OTHER PRIVATE
COMMERCIAL SOURCES
(UNIDENTIFIED)                   5.95
Total Project Cost               19.26
6. Implementation
Implementation period: The project would be implemented over four years,
starting with the low value clearing system, followed by the real time
gross settlement system, and, in parallel, the inter-bank card
component.Implementation Agencies: Project implementation would be
coordinated by a special unit MRSMP which has been created within BCEAO,
-4 -



which has been staffed with qualified BCEAO personnel for the duration of
the project. The unit would receive temporary assistance from specialized
consultants. Banks would participate closely in the implementation of the
project. They would be responsible for the installation of facilities
required to make the systems work in their branches and head
offices.Oversight and coordination. The MRSMP reports to the Governor of
BCEAO. It works closely with consultative committees established at both
the national and sub-regional levels, which comprise representatives of
beneficiaries and end-users, as well as international experts in payments
systems. Banks have established sub-committees on RTGS, treasurers,
low-value payments, card systems and legal and regulatory aspects, which
advise the project implementation unit. The Committee of Experts, which
includes representatives from national committees and technical
sub-committees, will meet regularly throughout project implementation to
provide advice and recommendations on options presented. This committee
was created to ensure the involvement and ownership of all stakeholders.
As required, the International Panel of Experts, drawn from European
central banks and international organizations, will participate in
deliberations of the Committee of Experts.Accounting, Financial Reporting,
and Auditing Arrangements. A financial management system acceptable to
IDA will be established to provide project management and IDA with
accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures. It
will include accounting, financial reporting and auditing as well as
procurement and physical progress monitoring elements in compliance with
the World Bank's policies and procedures (OP/BP 10.02 as well as financial
management initiative requirements). A detailed action plan for the
establishment of such a system was agreed during project preparation. It
is based on the conclusions of the financial management capacity
assessment conducted during the preparation phase, and which helped define
the financial management arrangements as summarized hereafter.Financial
Management Capacity AssessmentThe report of the financial management
capacity assessment can be found in project files. The conclusions
indicate that despite a well-established accounting organization and
detailed administrative and accounting procedures, BCEAO's current
financial management system does not allow for keeping the project's
accounts as a sub-system of the main accounting system. This would require
some adjustment to ensure that the project's transactions would be
recorded and reported on in detail and scope commensurate with World Bank
financial management requirements and the project's information needs. The
required improvements (defining an additional set of accounts to the
existing chart of accounts to record separately transactions related to
the project or creating a separate cost center for the project within the
main accounting system) are not feasible within the current system based
on the conclusions of the assessment. Therefore, it was agreed that a
separate autonomous financial management system would be more appropriate
for the project.BCEAO has detailed procedures presented in a five-volume
accounting manual, in addition to several guidelines describing specific
procedures such as procurement of goods and services, monitoring and
depreciation of fixed assets, posting certain types of transactions, etc.
Although these procedures and guidelines are satisfactory, they could be
cumbersome due to excessive pre-payment measures. The assessment therefore
concluded that it would be appropriate to have simplified procedures
applicable to the project while maintaining internal control procedures
that would ensure that funds are safeguarded. As a result, a specific set
of accounting procedures has been developed for the project and
- 5 -



incorporated in the Procedures Manual.The specifications of the autonomous
financial management system and the accounting manual, along with the
prerequisites, were taken into account in defining the project's overall
financial management arrangements presented hereafter.Financial Management
ArrangementsAccounting software: The project would be equipped with a
multi-currency accounting software capable of recording and reporting the
project's operations by component, sub-component, activity, and
expenditure category, regardless of the origin of funds. The software
should also offer a budget planning and monitoring module, a contract
monitoring module and a reporting module capable of generating the
periodic project management reports required under the financial
management initiative, formerly known as LACI. Detailed terms of reference
for the selection of the accounting software were prepared by BCEAO and
approved by IDA during project preparation. The software should be
installed and functioning satisfactorily to IDA prior to
effectiveness.Accounting procedures: Project-specific accounting
procedures have been developed based on BCEAO's established procedures and
guidelines which have been tailored to the project's needs for more
flexibility and rapidity while respecting internal control requirements.
The draft manual has been submitted to IDA for approval. The final version
satisfactory to IDA is a condition of effectiveness.Financial reporting:
Separate financial statements will be prepared for the project annually,
comprising i) a statement of Source and Application of funds for the
project during the current financial year and cumulatively since the start
of the project, and ii) a balance sheet. In addition, a quarterly report
using the Project Management Report models, including financial
statements, procurement/contracts schedule and output monitoring, will be
submitted one month after the end of each quarter. Auditing: The
financial statements of the project will be audited each fiscal year by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with acceptable
auditing standards. The selection and appointment of the project auditor,
according to terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of
effectiveness.Accounting staffing: To ensure that the project's accounting
is kept up-to-date and provides timely and regular information, an
accountant will be assigned to the project. The project's accountant will
work under the supervision of the accounting department as specified in
the project manual of procedures. The appointment of the accountant in the
project team, according to terms of reference and qualifications approved
by IDA, will be a condition of effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
The project is technically and financially sustainable. Technicians
required to operate and maintain the systems have been identified and
would receive on-the-job training from specialized consultants. Each
participating institution would ensure that its staff is fully conversant
with the new technologies and methods. Operating costs of the new systems
would be recovered from participating institutions, which would in turn
charge their clients for the services. Overall costs of the new system
are expected to be lower than those of the existing payment system.Almost
one-third of the total project costs are to be covered by commercial
banks. This contribution of banks to overall project costs does not
constitute traditional "co-financing" but represents banks' financing of
their own investment costs to prepare for the new system, and it is
clearly in the best interests of the banks to make the requisite
investments. Most of the commercial bank financing will be used to
- 6 -



finance the interbank card system, which is a desirable but not necessary
component to the project, and is not being financed with IDA funds.
Should several (or, in the case of the card project, all banks) opt not to
proceed with the required investment, it would not jeopardize the success
of the new low value clearing and RTGS components of the project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The first lesson drawn from experience is that the development and
implementation of a payment system is a complex process requiring the
active involvement of all stakeholders. At the regional level, a
Committee of Experts representing stakeholders has been set up for the
design of the project and has been closely involved in all phases of
project preparation. The same committee, composed of major stakeholders'
representatives, will continue to play a key consultative role during
project implementation, and technical sub-committees have been created
with correspondant committees or working groups in each country.The second
lesson is that a proper sequencing of individual components is essential.
Under the project, the lower value system should be implemented first
because it would handle the vast bulk of operations, and would have the
most immediate positive impact on the greatest number of end-users. This
component, unlike the RTGS, represents an incremental step for banks, and
will not require a major change in internal operating procedures or
systems. It would be followed by the bank card system, whose success
depends on the existence of a rapid & reliable low value system. In
parallel, the core functions (settlement and accounting module) of the
RTGS system would be implemented in order to settle the transactions from
the netting systems. Overlapping in the development and installation
phases of each component need to be carefully scheduled and managed in
order to optimize quality and time.The third lesson is that it is
essential to provide a sound legal framework and to develop and enforce
suitable standards covering all critical aspects of payment system
operation.  The legal framework has been carefully reviewed by
consultants, who recommended several amendments to existing legislation.
Standards have been developed in close consultation with stakeholders, and
will be enforced by BCEAO. Rules and procedures would be developed under
the project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Not Applicable
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ann Christine Rennie
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 473-2726
Fax: 522-1198
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
-7-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 17, 2000.
- 8 -



