                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000532




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IDA-34240)




                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.2 MILLION
                         (US$ 9.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                  CENTRAL BANK OF WEST AFRICAN STATES

         BANQUE CENTRALE DES ETATS DE L'AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST

                                     (BCEAO)

                                      FOR A

               BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT




                                  February 29, 2008




Financial and Private Sector Development
Africa Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective 02/27/08)
               Currency Unit = C.F.A. Francs BCEAO
                        1.00 = US$ 0.002295
                     US$ 1.00 = CFAF 435.750

                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 ­ December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
ATM          Automated Teller Machine
BCEAO        Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BIS          Bank of International Settlements
CCP          Comités Consultatifs des Paiements
CIP          Centrale des Incidents de Paiements
CMR          Centre Monétique Régional
COMPENS      Low-value clearing system
CTMI         Centre de Traitement Monetique Interbancaire de l'UEMOA
DSP          Département des Systèmes de Paiements
ECOWAS       Economic Community of West African States
FSAP         Financial Sector Assessment Program
GIM          Groupement Interbancaire et Monétique de l'UEMOA
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MONETIQUE    Interbank card system
MRSMP        Mission pour la Réforme des Systèmes et Moyens de Paiement
OHADA        Organization for the Harmonization of African Business Law
OPCS         Operational Policy and Country Services
POS          Point of Sale
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
RSE          Regional Stock Exchange
RTGS         Real Time Gross Settlement
SME          Small and Medium Enterprise
SICA         Système Interbancaire de Compensation Automatise dans l'UEMOA
STAR         Système de Transfert Automatise et de Règlement dans l'UEMOA
VSAT         Very Small Aperture Terminal
WAEMU        West African Economic and Monetary Union
WAMU         West African Monetary Union
                  Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                Country Director: Mark D. Tomlinson
                 Sector Manager: Iradj A. Alikhani
             Project Team Leader: Sherri Archondo
               ICR Team Leader: Olivier J. Lambert

                                                AFRICA
                     BCEAO Regional Payment Systems Project
                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 24
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 26
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 28
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 35
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 36

A. Basic Information

                                                                     BCEAO REGIONAL
Country:                Africa                 Project Name:         PAYMENT SYSTEMS
                                                                     PROJECT
Project ID:             P054884                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-34240
ICR Date:               03/03/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:             BCEAO
Original Total
                        XDR 7.2M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 7.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
BCEAO
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
African Development Bank (AfDB)
Commercial banks


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/15/1998    Effectiveness:        02/06/2001         02/06/2001
Appraisal:             08/28/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              10/19/2000    Mid-term Review:                         01/18/2004
                                     Closing:              07/31/2005         07/31/2005


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:          Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                          22                22
Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement             57                57
Telecommunications                                               21                21


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Legal institutions for a market economy                        Secondary        Secondary
Other financial and private sector development                  Primary          Primary
Regional integration                                           Secondary        Secondary
Standards and financial reporting                               Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Mark D. Tomlinson                 Charles Humphreys
Sector Manager:           Iradj A. Alikhani                  Gerard A. Byam
Project Team Leader:      Sherri Ellen Archondo              Ann E. Rennie
ICR Team Leader:          Olivier J. Lambert
ICR Primary Author:       Olivier J. Lambert



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary objective of the project is to establish and install an appropriate set of
regional payment mechanisms to satisfy the evolving needs of all market sectors in the
West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) - consumer, retail, industrial,
commerc ial, government, financial markets, and international - for making payments in a
safe, sound, secure and timely manner with certainty and at an acceptable cost. A


                                               ii

secondary, but nevertheless equally important objective, is that the new payments
systems satisfy internationally accepted standards and core principles and thus ensure a
high level of user confidence in the WAEMU financial systems.

  A well-functioning payments, clearing and settlement system is key to an efficient
financial sector, and plays an important role in reducing credit, liquidity and systemic
risks in the system. By supporting the implementation of a state-of-the-art payment
system for the entire WAEMU region, the project would contribute to the development of
non-cash transactions, the strengthening of banks, the deepening of the financial sector,
and, more generally, increased regional integration and the expansion of trade and
investment among and within member countries.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDOs were not revised. It remained to "Improve efficiency and security of payments in
the WAEMU region".

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval         Target         Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Large value transactions
                                                                            STAR allows banks
                                                                            to:
                                                                            - improve cash
                                                                            mgmt
                                                                            - facilitate
                                                                            interbank exchgs

Value          Cash management:                                             - reduce payment

quantitative orTransfer: from 1 to 8 days Settled in real time              risks

Qualitative)   Checks: 3 to 30 days                                         - reduce transfers
                                                                            delays between
                                                                            WAEMU countries
                                                                            from up to 3 wks to
                                                                            less than 3 minutes
                                                                            - settle clearing
                                                                            balances within
                                                                            acceptable delays
Date achieved 09/26/2000                  07/29/2005                        06/25/2004
Comments       In Jun 04, system reached qualitative and quantitative goals. STAR still not used
(incl. %       by large corp. & admin. Not yet identifiable trend in reduction of average cash
achievement)   bal. held by banks at BCEAO to settle operations. (100% achieved).
Indicator 2 :  Payments problems

Value          On average 14 problems                                       There are no

quantitative orper year per bank due to   Are reduced                       problems linked to

Qualitative)   slowness and mistakes.                                       slowness. There
                                                                            are still problems



                                               iii

                                                                            linked to mistakes
                                                                            (new systems) but
                                                                            those are declining.
Date achieved 09/26/2000                   07/29/2005                       12/31/2007

Comments        Problems occurred in the begin. owing to mistakes & lack of understanding of

(incl. %        various systems (STAR & SICA) which resulted in tech. rejections. With better

achievement)    understanding & more automation, these rejections are declining to low level.
                (75% achieved).
Indicator 3 :   Most beneficiaries are satisfied.
                                                                            70% of banks are
                                                                            satisfied with
Value           Most beneficiaries were Most beneficiaries                  STAR. All banks
quantitative or not satisfied with         are satisfied with               included in 2006
Qualitative)    previous system.           new system.                      survey and using
                                                                            SICA, were
                                                                            satisfied.
Date achieved 09/26/2000                   07/29/2005                       12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Surveys done in 2001, 2005 and 2006 show major improvement and satisfaction.

achievement)    (95% achieved).

Indicator 4 :   Non Fiduciary transactions.
                The majority of the                                         Non fiduciary
Value           population is using cash                                    circulation: from
quantitative or transactions (77%)         Increase by over                 CFA 2,800 billion
Qualitative)    instead of checks and      10% p.a.
                transfers, which were                                       12-2000 to CFA 5.5

                used by the enterprises.                                    billion in 09-2007.

Date achieved 09/26/2000                   07/29/2005                       12/31/2007
Comments        Surveys in 01, 05 & 06 conclude an increase in the usage of checks and transfers
(incl. %        as opposed to cash. Figures from BCEAO 07 confirmed an increase of on
achievement)    average 10% p.a. in non fiduciary circulation. (100% achieved).


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Well functioning RTGS (STAR)
                                           90% of large                     In 2006, average
                                           payment cleared in               settlement time was
                                           less than 15                     41 seconds

Value                                      minutes

(quantitative   -No system

or Qualitative) -1 to 8 days (transfers)
                                           Payments are                     99% settled in less
                                           processed in less                than 30 minutes.
                                           than 30 minutes




                                                iv

                                            Rejects < 1% at                  Financial rejects <
                                            the end of the                   0.1%
                                            session                          (Technical rejects
                                                                             or errors: 2.7% in
                                                                             2007)

Date achieved 09/26/2000                    07/29/2005                       12/31/2007
Comments        In 07, all 8 national clearing platforms and 90 banks were connected directly to
(incl. %        STAR, BRVM & CTMI. Technical rejects are declining with use & capacity
achievement)    building. (100% achieved).
Indicator 2 :   Well funtioning clearing systems for low value payments (SICA).

                                            Complaints are                   In 07, techn. rejects
                Many complaints about                                        are below 1%.
                previous manual system.     declining over
                                            time.



                                                                             1 to 4 days
                Time to clear checks and                                     depending check or
Value           low value tranfers:                            6 days        transfer, intra or
(quantitative   from 3 to 45 days           2 to 3 days                      inter WAEMU
or Qualitative) (intra / inter WAEMU)                                        countries




                                            Fees paid by end
                                            users decline by                 BCEAO invoicing

                                            25%                              banks CFA 170
                                                                             p/check.
Date achieved 09/26/2000                    07/29/2005         12/31/2007    12/31/2007

Comments        Country systems started in 05 w/ Mali, in 06 in Senegal, Burkina, Cote d'Ivoire,

(incl. %        Benin, in 07 Guinée-Bissau & Togo. Main delays due to telecom & lack of

achievement)    readiness of banks internal systems. Intercountry SICA operational Q1 08 (90%
                acheived)
Indicator 3 :   Well-functioning inter-bank card system (GIM / CTMI)
                Number of cards in          over 250,000 by                  About 400,000
                circulation 200,000         end of project                   cards; only 50,000
                                                                             are domestic
                                                                             regional cards
                                                                             (GIM), 150,000 are
Value                                                                        international and
(quantitative                                                  NA            200,000 private.
or Qualitative)




                Number of                   + 10% once                       POS: 1000-1500


                                                  v

               POS 443                   system operational                 ATM: 300 to 500
               ATM 5                                                        include. 80 GIM




               Card transations          + 10% once                         operational but not
               Number value              system                             yet adopted by all
               2,4 million               operational                        banks
               CFA 155 billion

Date achieved 09/26/2000                 07/29/2005          12/31/2007     12/31/2007

Comments       CTMI established in 05 for inter-operability of cards. In Dec. 06, CTMI able to

(incl. %       demonstrate tech. functional capabilities. First banks connected in 07. In Dec

achievement)   07, 5 banks connected in 3 countries. Adding 21 banks in 08 is the objective.
               (20% achieved).
Indicator 4 :  Telecommunications system operates satisfactorily.

               Network response time     less than 1                        600 milliseconds

               (PING benchmark)          second.                            daily average over
                                                                            8 countries


Value
(quantitative  Availability of network   Above 95%                          BCEAO
or Qualitative)                                                             VSAT:99.9%
                                                                            SWIFT: 99.99%


               Satisfaction of banks     yes                                yes

Date achieved 09/26/2000                 07/29/2005                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The BCEAO VSAT improvement benefited STAR, SICA & other applications

achievement)   (accounting system and videoconferencing). (100% achieved).


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP                 Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     05/14/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.41
  2     11/20/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.87
  3     05/21/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      2.44
  4     12/19/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      4.05
  5     06/19/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      5.40
  6     11/28/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      8.24
  7     12/06/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      9.85



                                              vi

  8   12/14/2004        Satisfactory        Satisfactory           9.85
  9   06/13/2005        Satisfactory        Satisfactory           9.85
  10  06/02/2006        Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory    9.85
  11  06/26/2007        Satisfactory        Satisfactory           9.80



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                     vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) project was in line with the
objectives of the draft Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS) for West Africa.
The RIAS was approved by the Board of Directors on July 11, 2001 (Report number
22520). This strategy established a greater focus on regional integration in West Africa,
and a focus on promoting regional integration by reinforcing existing regional bodies
including West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) institutions.

Two specific objectives of the RIAS were reducing the high costs of doing business in
the sub-region and integrating the financial market. On that matter, this project was an
instrument to achieve the main objectives of that strategy since its aim was to stimulate
and support the emergence of sub-regional financial instruments such as mortgage
markets and others.

As stated in the RIAS, the business environment also needed to be improved in each
country and better regionally integrated for goods and infrastructure services. One
important pillar of the business environment was a financial sector which would
contribute to attracting investors and to making it easier for financial institutions to
operate across WAEMU countries. An integrated financial sector requires a functioning
intra-regional payment system. The BCEAO project was the RIAS' instrument to
achieve that goal.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The primary objective of the project was to establish and install an appropriate set of
regional payment mechanisms to satisfy the evolving needs of all market sectors in the
WAEMU - consumer, retail, industrial, commercial, government, financial markets, and
international - for making payments in a safe, sound, secure and timely manner with
certainty and at an acceptable cost.

A secondary, but nevertheless equally important objective, was that the new payment
systems satisfy internationally accepted standards and core principles and thus ensure a
high level of user confidence in the WAEMU financial systems. A well-functioning
payment, clearing and settlement system is key to an efficient financial sector, and plays
an important role in reducing credit, liquidity and systemic risks in the system. By
supporting the implementation of a state-of-the-art payment system for the entire
WAEMU region, the project would contribute to the development of non-cash
transactions, the strengthening of banks, the deepening of the financial sector, and, more
generally, increased regional integration and the expansion of trade and investment
among and within member countries. To achieve these objectives, the project had five
components: (i) project support; (ii) a real time gross settlement system (RTGS, renamed
STAR-UEMOA: Système de Transfert Automatisé et de Règlement); (iii) a low value
clearing system (COMPENS), renamed SICA-UEMOA: Système Interbancaire de


                                               1

Compensation Automatisé); (iv) an inter-bank card system; and (v) a common
telecommunications and computer infrastructure based on BCEAO's facilities.

Key Performance Indicators as set out in the PAD:

Key indicators included increasing the volume of non-cash transactions processed by the
system, the development of electronic transactions, and the reduction in payment delays
and intermediation costs for domestic, regional and international transactions.

Sector indicators:
    · M2/GDP ratio in WAEMU member countries increases from 23.2 percent in 2000
       to 26 percent in 2003;
    · Volume of intra-regional trade and financial transactions increases; and
    · Private investment increases by 15 percent p.a. on average in the WAEMU
       region.

Outcome/Impact Indicators:
    · Large value transactions settled real time;
    · Payments problems are reduced;
    · Beneficiaries are satisfied with new system; and
    · Non fiduciary transactions increase by over 10 percent p.a.

Output Indicators:
(a) Well functioning Real Time Gross Settlement system (RTGS):
    · RTGS: 90 percent of payments (in volume and amount) settled in less than 15
       minutes;
    · Payments are processed in the RTGS in less than 30 minutes on average; and
    · Rejects less than 1 percent at end of session.

(b) Well functioning clearing system (COMPENS):
    · Complaints decline over time; settlement completed at end of sessions; time
       required for payment decreases from up to 15 to 2 days in-country and from up to
       25 to 3 days inter-country by end 2003.

(c) Well functioning interbank card system (MONETIQUE):
    · Fees paid by end-users for low-value transactions decline in real terms by 25
       percent from year 2000 to 2004; and
    · Number of cards in circulation over 250,000 by end 2004; number of available
       POS and ATM, and number of card transactions increase by at least 10 percent
       p.a. once inter-bank system is operational.

(d) Telecommunications systems operates satisfactorily:
    · Network response time (PING benchmark) less than 1 second; availability of
       network over 95 percent; banks are satisfied with new system.




                                            2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The project's Overall PDOs and key indicators were not revised.

However, there was a minor revision to the intermediate indicators which led to the
amendment of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) on August 16, 2004 and
Schedule 6 was modified and clarified.

Intermediate indicators were revised as follows:

    · Time required for payment decreases from up to 15 days to 6 days in-country and
        from up to 25 to 6 days inter-country, by Project closing;
    · Fees paid by end-users for low-value transactions decline in real terms by 25%
        from the year 2000 by Project closing;
    · Number of cards in circulation over 250,000 by Project closing; number of
        available automatic teller machines (ATM) or point of sale (POS) outlets and
        number of card transactions increase by at least 10% per annum once the
        MONETIQUE system is operational; and
    · Network response time (PING test) in less than 1 second.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

Beneficiaries are participating financial institutions as well as the increasing number of
people having access to financial services.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of five components: The following is a brief description of the
project components as approved.

(i) Global Project Support (GPS) : US$ 2.60 million
(IDA US$1.6 M; BCEAO US$1 M) ­ 16.5% of IDA financing.

This component included project management and monitoring, procurement, training,
legal framework, and beneficiary surveys. International and local consultants were hired
to help the project team to manage and implement the project, establish appropriate rules
and procedures, train staff of participating institutions, and carry out surveys of
beneficiaries. Costs linked to training and specialized consulting services to assist in
project implementation and development of detailed technical specifications for the
various components (experts in RTGS, clearing & settlement, card systems, legal,
telecommunications, etc.) were to be financed by International Development Association
(IDA) credit. The balance, representing operating costs for project management (staff,
audit, accounting, office supplies, etc.) were to be funded by BCEAO.




                                              3

(ii) Real-Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS): US$ 2.5 million
(IDA US$2.00 M; BCEAO US$0.3 M, Banks and financial institutions US$0.2 M) ­
21% of IDA financing.

The RTGS component included the establishment of a RTGS at the regional level which
would be open to banks and other financial institutions. The main objectives of the sub-
regional RTGS system were:

·    to reduce risks associated with operations involving large value or urgent payments
     and risk of systemic contagion caused by the failure of a participant due to a lack of
     liquidity at the time of settlement. Without RTGS, settlement may occur at the end of
     the day, for example, and may compromise the entire day's clearing operations,
     leading to a risk of systemic failure;
·    to ensure speed, completion and security of funds transfers throughout the sub-region,
     in accordance with BIS Payment System's Core Principal recommendations; and
·    to foster the development of financial markets in the sub-region.

IDA funded detailed studies, consultants, consensus building, experts committees,
hardware and software.

(iii) Clearing System (COMPENS): US$ 4.1 million
(IDA US$2.1 M; BCEAO US$1.4 M, Banks and financial institutions US$0.6 M) ­
22% of IDA funding.

The low value clearing component was intended to upgrade existing systems at the
national and regional levels to make them more efficient introducing automated clearing
to replace manual operations. It was to be designed to meet the daily low-value payment
needs of a broad spectrum of users and to cover a variety of payment instruments (checks,
automatic debits and credits, payment orders, card payments, etc)

The clearing system had the following main objectives:

·    to shorten the time required for clearing checks or other paper transactions (both
     within and between member states). When transactions are "out of station" or "off-
     site", delay should be reduced from several weeks to three days;
·    to reduce the risks and costs associated with delays and with manual procedures for
     handling and transporting paper instruments;
·    to promote and make possible the development and automation of new electronic
     payment instruments; and
·    to reduce the need for cash balances to cover clearing operations, by centralizing the
     accounts of financial institutions held at the BCEAO at the national level, thereby
     eliminating the need to maintain credit positions at each local BCEAO branch for
     clearing operations.

IDA funded detailed studies and technical specifications definition, consultants to support
the process and substance, software and 50 percent of BCEAO platform servers.


                                                4

(iv) Interbank Card System (MONETIQUE): US$4.5 million
(IDA US$0.3 M; BCEAO US$0.1 M, Banks and financial institutions US$4.1) ­
2.8% of IDA funding.

The inter-bank card system was meant to support the development of a common bank
card product, enabling any bank customer to use it at any automatic teller machine
(ATM) or participating merchant's facility (point of sale - POS) in the sub-region The
main objectives of setting up an interbank card system at the level of WAEMU would be
the following:

·   to strengthen the consistency and the image of the sub-region's financial sector by
    creating a WAEMU card logo, which would be displayed on individual cards and
    would be promoted by joint advertising campaigns;
·   to promote the use of electronic payment instruments to replace cash;
·   to strengthen the position and bargaining power of sub-regional card issuers vis-à-vis
    international card networks (such as VISA, MasterCard, etc.);
·   to reduce commissions and transaction processing costs, i.e., acquisition, transfers,
    authorization, settlement, by optimizing the required technical infrastructure
    (equipment, networks and software), for the benefit of banks in the sub-region; and
·   to control risks (fraud) associated with electronic payments.

Due to the commercial nature of this component, the financing was meant to come
essentially from the private banks community. IDA funded some legal, economic and
technical analyses required to establish an interbank card agreement in addition to
supporting the process of consensus building (consultants and sub-committees meetings).


(v) Telecommunication System: US$2.8 million
(IDA US$1.5 M; BCEAO US$0.7 M, banks and financial institutions US$0.6 M) ­
16% of IDA financing.

For all three payment systems, the BCEAO telecommunications satellite network was
meant to be used to effect transactions with a high degree of security and at a low cost.
Local networks would have to be built and secured for connecting banks' local branches
and ATM and POS facilities. The actual installation of the three systems would depend
on a high-quality and efficient telecommunications network at the regional level. The
network architecture to be put in place would need to have the following characteristics:

·   high capacity, with the possibility of expansion, in order to handle a volume of traffic
    that may increase rapidly;
·   a high degree of availability;
·   reliability, integrity and confidentiality of financial data;
·   uniform high quality of service at all access points in the network; and
·   cost effective.




                                               5

The communications system component of the project would have two sub-components:

·   the "back bone" sub-regional network, that is based upon the existing private VSAT
    network; and
·   in each capital city, the construction of an interbank network connected to the sub-
    regional network

IDA funded detailed studies and preparation of technical specifications, satellite
telecommunication upgrade and videoconferencing upgrade.

1.6 Revised Components

Components were not formally revised, but were adapted during the course of
implementation following the detailed studies carried out at the beginning of the project.
For instance, the Low Value System went beyond what was initially envisaged with
check imaging, and the telecom component was modified in view of local constraints in
some countries.

1.7 Other significant changes

The original concept remained the same throughout but the project adapted to three main
changes: the number of banks increased during that period from about 60 to 100; the
implementation period of the program increased from four to seven years; overall
reported costs increased from about US$18 to US$67 million1.

Some costs are borne by the private banks in all components and in the card component
entirely, as the card system was considered from the outset a private sector activity.
Obviously, with more banks active in the WAEMU, overall cost for this reform is higher.
But there is also another reason. Costs incurred by private banks are declared to BCEAO,
but not verified. And our discussions with commercial banks have led us to confirm that
they have included in their reported costs, activities goods and services beyond what was
considered initially strictly "external and additional" to payment systems modernization.
In fact, the project catalyzed investments in systems upgrade (accounting for instance)
and modernization that have improved those institutions beyond strictly payment systems.

Other costs are "public costs" essentially those borne by BCEAO. It was decided to book
as project costs, all costs linked to the project implementation unit (MRSMP) and also
costs of operating the subsequent Payment Systems Department (DSP) until July 31 2008.
It could be argued that, as soon as systems are operating, those DSP costs should be part
of BCEAO's regular budget. Other "public" costs were underestimated, among which
efforts, time and investments needed to ensure similar level of understanding, capacity
and development among all eight countries; naturally, this also had an impact on the
implementation timeframe.



1On a more comparable basis, staff estimate that "non private" costs amount to US$34 million.


                                                    6

In 2002, BCEAO invited the African Development Bank to parallel finance with ADF
some additional costs identified; BCEAO also increased its own share of financing. IDA
did not increase its credit amount.

In that context, the project's Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR)
preparation date was extended twice in agreement with Operations Policy and Country
Services (OPCS): first, from January 31, 2006 to January 31, 2007, and second, from
January 31 2007 to January 31 2008. The objective was to have the ICR preparation date
to coincide with the closing date of African Development Bank (ADB) credit (now
scheduled to close on July 31 2008 as it has been extended) and allow full
implementation of the program2. At this time, we do have a sufficient view of the
situation to produce an adequate ICR. To be noted that IDA funds were fully disbursed
as initially planned, and that the Credit's closing date was not extended.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was well prepared and was the result of multi-year intense dialogue with
BCEAO, which culminated in this particular project design. Before 1997, little if no
financial sector work was carried out at the regional level. But starting in 1997, after the
issuance of the "Financial Sector Note" for Cote d'Ivoire, the Africa Financial Group
embarked on an effort to deepen the relation with BCEAO on Financial Sector
development issues. The dialogue with BCEAO included the following areas: (i)
regulatory framework for banks and supervision; (ii) regulatory framework for capital
markets and supervision3; (ii) microfinance regulatory framework and supervision4; (iii)
regional accounting framework called SYSCOA; (iv) payment instruments and systems;
(v) regional payment incidents data base; and (vi) business laws including collateral laws.
This effort resulted in two reports: Capital Market Supervision in the WAEMU Report
(Nov. 1998) and Bank Supervision in the WAEMU (April 1999). In 1999, despite needs
in various areas, it was decided that IDA would proceed formally with a focused
strategically important project which carried maximum ownership from BCEAO. This
would limit the risks and would enhance chances of success for a first project with
BCEAO, hopefully leading later if necessary to follow-ons.

The design was adequate as it reflected the World Bank's position at the time to focus
"payment projects" almost entirely on systemically important payment systems and not
get involved in retail payment systems meant to be private in order to avoid distorting



2ADB credit was disbursing slowly: for instance, September 30 2007, i.e. 10 months before closure,
disbursement rate stood at below 23%.

3Including with the Capital Markets Commission

4Including with various countries MOF


                                                   7

competition. Actually, this project's design was innovative: for the first time a payment
project covered ­to varying degrees-- all payment systems including retail, to bring
comprehensiveness and coherence. At the time, it took a special effort from the project
team to convince peers and management that it made sense to include all the three
components (RTGS, automatic check clearing and cards) in the project.

The first critical assumption was "macroeconomic stability for the region". The
simmering Togolese and upcoming Ivorian political crisis had not been factored in. But
this was not foreseeable especially for Cote d'Ivoire. Despite the fact that
macroeconomic stability was not maintained across all WAEMU countries, the project
moved ahead albeit with some delays. Another critical assumption was "the political will
to promote regional integration". Clearly some countries were more inward looking
during project years, trying to resolve internal problems. But even if the political will did
not show, according to some, the already achieved integration allowed the region to
withstand and overcome the two crises. Certainly no country wanted to leave WAEMU
and the already achieved integration provided some stability; in addition, Guinea-Bissau
joined in 2000 evidencing rather the attractiveness of such union.

Critical risks from outputs to objectives identified were adequate but their rating may
have been underestimated. Those risks include lack of competition among banks and
above all the fact that benefits do not reach end-users with banks unwilling to broaden
their client base (for instance, through price decrease due to volume growth). It is too
early to say whether these risks which have all been rated low, really are low, taking into
account the current advancement of the project.

Critical risks from components to outputs identified initially were adequate and
adequately rated between modest or low. Those include lack of commitment from banks,
difficulties with new IT, weak energy and IT infrastructure, deteriorating legal
framework, lack of adequate leadership from BCEAO. Some of these risks (lack of
initial commitment from banks and weak IT infrastructure) did materialize to some extent
and were mitigated appropriately. Others never materialize: for instance BCEAO
established promptly a special unit to lead the project which consistently delivered
quality work.

This is a complex project requiring active involvement of all stakeholders. That lesson
was incorporated appropriately in the design insofar that BCEAO set up various
committees at various levels in all countries to ensure full buy in. The two other lessons
i.e. sequencing and sound legal framework appeared less important. Each component
moved at its own speed: in this project, sequencing was more the result of whether
impediments to move forward were overcome and when, rather than a deliberate
decision; similarly the legal framework was technically ready early on, but only adopted
by some National Parliaments5 years later.



5In The WAEMU, some laws must be adopted by each country parliament within six months of the
regional council of ministers decision. But it does not take place and regional laws can take years to
become enforceable over the WAEMU territory.


                                                     8

2.2 Implementation

Implementation was led by a strong team in BCEAO, initially "Mission pour la Reforme
des Systèmes et Moyens de Paiements" which later became a full-fledge "Direction" in
the Central Bank. The leadership remained stable and the staffing adequate insofar that it
grew with needs. Recognizing that designing such complex systems for eight countries is
challenging, processes were built to ensure broad understanding of issues and ownership
of solutions.

These broad consultations resulted in some changes on technical aspects: specifically,
different local telecom components and solutions were identified, changes in the low
value clearing component were sought (scanned images exchange) and an additional
capacity building effort was decided in various areas. Some of the costs associated with
these changes were funded by the African Development Bank/ADF which approved a
complementary project in July 2002 for approximately US$10 million equivalent.

However, despite leadership at the BCEAO level, the project moved slower than
anticipated: the length of the procurement phase was underestimated and the installation
and launching of the systems (in particular the nine SICA systems) more difficult than
initially planned. One could also consider that initial estimates were optimistic. To be
noted that there had been no prior experience of such a regional project anywhere in the
world, dealing with such a comprehensive payment infrastructure.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The results framework was well designed, clear and key performance indicators were
precise and measurable. BCEAO statistics allowed adequate measurement of indicators.
In addition, as planned, a survey was commissioned to set a base line in 2001 and
measure evolution for quantitative and more qualitative indicators in 2005 and 2006.
However, the survey was less useful than it could have been: some questions remained
unanswered and results over time not always comparable: for instance, some
data/responses were collected in four countries of WAEMU and then at another point in
time, in the four other countries of WAEMU.

For the completion report, the results framework was used to assess objectively
performance and helped BCEAO focus on outcomes including on measurable outcomes.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Initial (minor) financial management weaknesses identified by the auditors were
promptly corrected. Initially, the lack of knowledge of Bank procurement process
impacted the length of procurement of the first contracts; but the procurement activity
improved with experience. No significant fiduciary issue was identified. There have
been no issues in safeguard compliance as they were not applicable.




                                             9

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

At ICR time, there is no specific post completion operation identified in the area of
payment systems nor there is a need. However, the challenge remains to ensure that this
payment platform is effectively shared by all. This satisfactory project may lead to a
consideration of another TA/Investment project for BCEAO to further strengthen and
develop the regional financial system with the objective of supporting access to finance.
This was confirmed during the WAEMU regional Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP) exercise.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives have remained relevant, the design appropriate and
implementation adequate. A recent review of the Regional Integration Assistance
Strategy (June 2006) concluded that the RIAS has not been fully implemented but its
conceptual framework remains valid. It recommended that the Bank focus its efforts on
(i) macroeconomic convergence; (ii) trade liberalization; (iii) business environment; and,
(iv) costs of services. The BCEAO Regional Payment Systems Project falls squarely in
the "improving business environment" and in the "reducing cost of doing business"
categories broadly defined.

The design has remained relevant. Today, with a new emphasis on retail markets,
consistent with the "access to finance" focus, payment systems project to focus to a larger
extent on systems serving all segments of retail markets, see BEAC Regional Payment
System Project or the Payment and Banking Systems Modernization Project for the
Kyrgyz Republic; however, it is unlikely that the design of this project would have been
very different today due to the specific situation encountered in WAEMU and more
specifically the fact that some banks were way ahead in the card business. Nevertheless,
the world is changing fast, including the attitude of policy makers to leave the
development of this market segment entirely to competition forces; this is illustrated in
Brazil, as the Central Bank is considering legislation to force cooperation among market
participants to ensure interoperability among card operators.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project has achieved its PDO to a large extent already. Indeed, the primary objective
of the project was to establish and install an appropriate infrastructure of regional
payment mechanisms and systems to satisfy the evolving needs of all market sectors in
the WAEMU - consumer, retail, industrial, commercial, government, financial markets,
and international - for making payments in a safe, sound, secure and timely manner with
certainty and at an acceptable cost.

All three systems (STAR, SICA and CTMI) are operational. They all provide the
infrastructure for safety, soundness, and timely manner with certainty. However, at this

                                              10

time it is too early to confirm that all costs are acceptable, which does not mean that costs
are not acceptable. With regard to STAR, there are no complaints in terms of what
BCEAO invoices the banks at this time. Most banks have kept previous prices on
transfers (higher than what is paid to BCEAO) and only the benefit of timely execution of
funds transfer has been shared with their clients. With regard to SICA, there are
disparities among WAEMU countries: banks in Senegal are currently passing on the
entire CFA 170 per check cleared to their customers while this is not the case in other
WAEMU countries. With regard to the card clearing and settlement system (CTMI), it is
too early to draw any conclusion except that it is bound to be lower than an international
settlement through VISA or Mastercard via London or Cairo.

A secondary objective was that the new payments systems will satisfy internationally
accepted standards and core principles and thus ensure a high level of user confidence in
the WAEMU financial systems. At this point, this objective has only been reached in
part, since, for instance, intraday credit procedures for STAR are missing and the
guarantee fund for SICA remains to be established. But BCEAO is aware and intends to
comply in 2008. Furthermore, in setting up its new Payment Systems Department (DSP),
BCEAO created an Oversight Division (OD) in charge of ensuring compliance with
internationally accepted standards. DSP has planned to critically review in 2008 main
systems against core principles. DSP is also working on establishing the best
organization for the OD (sharing of responsibilities between Headquarters and National
BCEAO Agencies), tools and methodology for an effective oversight, including
partnerships for instance with the banking supervision commission.

Full benefits or impact of this project's positive outcome will be realized once more
people are drawn into the financial system as institutions handling large number of retail
payments i.e. Governments and utility companies especially, implement the Law by
paying salaries or by ensuring that most payments are received electronically as opposed
to cash.

Financial depth measured by M2/GDP improved from 23 percent in 2000 to 28 percent in
2006; both intra WAEMU trade and credit to private sector grew by about 60 percent,
and intra WAEMU transferred amounts increased in value by a factor of 3, over the same
7-year period. Finally, non fiduciary transactions increased over the project period at an
average rate of 10 percent per annum. Based on figures provided by BCEAO, over the
period 2000 to 2007 sector indicators improved; but it is difficult to attribute these
improvements to this project. The credit will definitely support such positive trends: first,
by removing impediments and second, by facilitating financial transactions.

3.3 Efficiency

The total project costs seemed to have increased from US$18 million to US$67 million.
The anticipated project costs appear currently about 4 times (408 percent) compared to
initial estimates. But figures provided by BCEAO for this ICR are not quite comparable
as other expenses (mainly from the private sector) are included. Staff estimates of "non
private" costs (a better comparator) amount to US$34 million.



                                               11

It is our judgment that this project has been quite efficient: a US$10 million IDA credit
has leveraged about US$24 million of additional public resources and catalyzed
approximately US$34 million in private resources. As a result, about 100 banks are more
efficient and both credit and liquidity risks ­associated with payments, in eight countries
are lower (US$100 million worth of transactions were processed through STAR in 2007),
and an infrastructure supporting the integration agenda of the WAEMU has been put into
place.

As mentioned in para. 1.7, this major increase has two main explanations. First, initially,
the project costs only included external and additional costs for commercial banks such
as the purchase of new hardware and software strictly related to systems installations.
However, what is actually reported by banks is much beyond this strict definition and
includes their internal systems upgrade, capacity building etc... Furthermore, the number
of banks increased significantly almost by a factor of 2, from 60 to about 100. This is
reflected in the financing Table in Annex 1 where private commercial banks funding
went from approximately US$6 to US$34 million. In fact, this project catalyzed much
needed efficiency investments in the banks much beyond what was strictly necessary "to
be hooked" to the new payment systems.

Second, BCEAO's decision to treat all costs related to payment systems until July 31,
2008 as project costs increased overall costs. That is why "project support" costs went up
from approximately US$2.5 million initially planned to US$11.5 million and that
BCEAO counterpart financing went roughly from US$4 to US$13 million. The issue is
the date after which BCEAO operational and administrative expenses should be sustained
by BCEAO administrative budget and fees/commissions paid by participants. In the case
of STAR-UEMOA for instance, since it started in June 2004, it could be argued that
starting in 2005, operational and administrative costs should not be part of the project.

In addition, there are other legitimate reasons for the cost increase. The main ones are the
following:
            -   under-estimation of costs of efforts needed to ensuring that understanding
                and capacity are even among the eight WAEMU countries;
            -   under-estimation of the cost of the RTGS system;
            -   choices made in the low value clearing and settlement system i.e. number
                of access points and more sophisticated local platforms;
            -   slide in the value of the Dollar by 50 percent against Euro between Sept 26,
                2000 (Board date) and December 31, 2004 (date of quasi full disbursement
                of IDA funds) in a zone were there is a fixed parity between Euro and
                CFA and most contracts and costs are established in Euros.6
            -   Project duration increased by almost a factor of 2: initially planned for
                four years, the project will last more than seven years; as a result project
                management cost is mechanically increased.




6Even though the Credit is in SDRs and it limited the impact of the dollar slide.


                                                   12

This cost increase did not have any impact on IDA financing since the Credit amount was
not increased; collectively private banks' funding increased about six times, BCEAO
increased its share 3.5 times, ADB committed a FAD amount equivalent to IDA
(although unlikely to be fully disbursed). This situation ensured that the project remained
fully funded. It also evidenced a consensus about the value and efficiency of this project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.
             -  Most results on which BCEAO has full control have been achieved to a
                large extent as key targets are met;
             -  Those results achieved are very likely to be sustainable;
             -  Even though more needs to be done in various areas such as payment
                oversight and IT continuity, BCEAO is aware and has started to tackle
                those areas;
             -  There is strong ownership by BCEAO and commitment to use this
                payment systems modernization effort to broaden access to financial
                services;
             -  Private commercial banks have been investing to ensure adequate linkages
                with their own systems evidencing interest.
             -  Despite the following shortcomings:
                        The interbank card system has not yet achieved its goals and there
                        is uncertainty as to what the final outcome will be. But, the card
                        system was considered from the outset to be primarily a
                        commercial activity, with most of the funding, decision-making,
                        and timing determined by private sector participants.
                        Overall much higher costs, although figures are not strictly
                        comparable since the definition of these costs shifted to include
                        more items and most of these costs are borne by commercial banks.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

This project should have a positive impact on "access to finance" hence on reducing
poverty. This positive impact should come most directly via the "card component" which
is ­at this stage--the least advanced as it depends entirely on the banks with BCEAO
facilitating. Now that the CTMI has demonstrated its effectiveness, both, interviewed
commercial banks and microfinance institutions (MFIs) are exploring ways to issue cards
adapted to their customers requirements including credit, debit or prepaid services
including electronic purse. There are still many issues to be resolved including adequate
understanding of legislation and regulatory framework but in that respect BCEAO has
launched a major effort to ensure that all institutions are aware of the new possibilities
offered.


                                               13

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

As mentioned earlier, a new payment system department (DSP) has been created which is
in charge of operating both systems (STAR and SICA) and oversight over all systems
including those which are not operated by the Central Bank. In addition, DSP is in
charge of the Payment Incidents Database (CIP). This new database is based on the
following principles: one regional database, automatically updated by the banks' systems
and accessible by internet both by banks and individuals. The system is ready but the
database is not fully loaded yet, as all banks have not provided all the data i.e. bank
accounts. The objective is to launch officially the system country per country once the
data loading has reached at least 75 percent of all bank accounts in that country. Main
challenges include: similar names for different people, and, different names for one
person or enterprise: there is not yet a uniform identification number for individuals or
enterprises in WAEMU.

Payment system projects do contribute to institutional strengthening most notably on
smaller banks and financial institutions providing payment services as they mandate
generally an upgrade of their information systems. Once upgraded the system can
usually provide better client and risk management tools and the institutions are
effectively strengthened. Evidence of that is clearly demonstrated by the amounts of
project related costs declared by commercial banks and showing up as project costs. As
mentioned earlier, this is the result of a shift in the definition used at appraisal rather than
a true increase.

Equally important, the Central Bank, BCEAO, itself, also benefits from this
strengthening. The fact that BCEAO is operating both main systems (STAR and SICA)
has forced a revision of its accounting plan: a new software (called BAOBAB) will
structure liquidity management by business lines. In addition, a cost accounting software
(called COSMOS) is being introduced and should be operational in 2008. COSMOS
should be able to allow BCEAO to strategically price its services to banks, based on
actual costs and not only on forecasts; this does not mean necessarily full cost recovery.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Since establishing an adequate payment system in an eight country zone is a major
challenge and must be highly consensual, the DSP in BCEAO has been at the forefront of
culture change within the Central Bank moving away from command and control type of
behavior towards a much more open and consensual decision making process. This is a
positive outcome as BCEAO still remains the most powerful institution in the WAEMU.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Three surveys were conducted in 2001, 2005 and 2006. In 2001 all WAEMU countries
were surveyed but in 2005 and 2006 only four countries and four different countries: in
2005, Cote d'Ivoire, Benin, Senegal and Niger; in 2006, Burkina-Faso, Guinea-Bissau,


                                               14

Mali and Togo. As a result, these surveys provide non comparable quantitative data but
do provide qualitative information on trends that can be compared to a certain extent.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: MODERATE

With regard to STAR and SICA, the risk that detrimental changes will occur, leading
back to the previous situation or worse is rated NEGLIGEABLE. Technically, main
challenges have been overcome, it has been properly funded, and advantages are clear
resulting in strong ownership by both BCEAO and stakeholders. However, should a
disaster strike BCEAO HQ, then since there is not yet a remote disaster recovery site, all
recent data would be lost and the financial system would be impaired for some time.

With regard to the card system, the risk that the expected outcome --full interoperability
of the card systems, is not reached is rated SUBSTANTIAL at this point. There are
banks well ahead in the card business and it is not sure that their interests are fully
aligned with those banks with zero development in that area. If many card systems were
to co-exist, then that situation would impose high social costs on a poor region and this is
not optimal. But those "advanced banks" (also the largest ones) are now stating that they
are willing to join Groupement Interbancaire ett Monétique de l'UEMOA (GIM). Until
they effectively do so, uncertainty will prevail and the objective of fully interoperable
regional cards in the WAEMU region will remain a goal. The December 2007 GIM
General Assembly focused on reforming structures and institutions supporting this goal
to ensure faster results.

Despite the following mitigating factors:

            -   Technically the common card processing and clearing infrastructure is
                operational since mid 2007 as evidenced by the early joining of five banks
                from three countries;
            -   Approximately 30 member banks are planned to be connected before the
                end of 2008;
            -   Those who are not yet members and which are the most advanced are
                reconsidering their position vis-à-vis joining GIM following discussions
                between BCEAO senior management and these banks' HQ in France;
                however, a key element for making a convincing business case will be the
                agreed level of interbank commissions; and
            -   With about US$8 million already invested in the CTMI, member banks are
                unlikely to abandon their financial investment and therefore are inclined to
                try to reach an agreement with current non member banks (most advanced
                in that area) to achieve full interoperability.

As a result, the overall assessment of risk to development outcome is rated MODERATE:
the main outcomes on the largest components and largest share of IDA funding have been
reached and the risk rating that these outcomes will not be sustained is negligible. The
yet unrealized outcome is linked to retail markets, is impacting directly access to finance


                                               15

and the risk rating of not being realized is substantial; but, this component weighed only
23 percent of initial project costs and 3 percent of IDA funding.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

As mentioned this project was the result of a long and intense dialogue. It remains
strategically relevant. The project was crafted carefully with technical experts supporting
an innovative regional agenda. There was excellent cooperation in the World Bank
between the "Region" and the "Center". The project incorporated consultation processes
at different levels to ensure that solutions would be informed by best practices while
adapted to the local context.

The main shortcomings include (i) the underestimation of total costs including optimistic
timeframe, although the project did leverage and catalyze all needed resources; and (ii)
the difficulties to ensure full buy-in the card component by the most advanced banks in
the card business.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Supervision or implementation support provided by the World Bank was moderately
satisfactory. First, over the period, there were four Team Leaders (TLs): that is not a
slow turnover resulting at one point in time in a two-month wait to obtain a no objection
which can be justified but must be well explained. In the first phase of implementation
BCEAO had to learn Bank procurement procedures which may have contributed to initial
slowness. Second, the TL did not factor in well enough expert advice from the "FSD
Center" and as a result, provided no objection on a Request for Proposal (RFP) that
resulted in a sub-optimal product which does not incorporate latest best practices. As a
result, the current low value clearing system ­in the absence of a planned guarantee
fund--is more risky and less compliant with Bank of International Settlements (BIS) core
principles than it would have been otherwise. Hopefully this is only temporary. Third,
the last TL was nominated late once all IDA funds had been disbursed; nevertheless the
TL coordinated well with the ADB and joint missions were the common practice. The
stable presence of a technical expert provided consistent support along the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The combination of both ratings and a satisfactory outcome, leads to rate World Bank
performance as satisfactory.

                                              16

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) BCEAO Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Senior BCEAO management was supportive of the project providing adequate resources
especially when the shortfall was identified to ensure completion.

(b) Implementing Agency i.e. DSP Performance

Rating: Highly satisfactory

The initial "Mission for Payment Systems Reforms" was headed by a dynamic and
committed BCEAO manager who was able to handpick young and energetic staff. This
led to an efficient team of committed people and therefore strong ownership. This
Mission is now a Directorate (DSP) and the manager a Department Director. She is
supported by an efficient Associate Director; this structure allows the Department
Director to travel around WAEMU countries to ensure all countries are treated equally
and that understanding of the reform and capacity is built adequately.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Combining supportive senior management and efficient implementing Agency ratings,
led to a clear satisfactory rating.


6. Lessons Learned

    · Payment system projects are complex, and building understanding, capacity and
        necessary consensus should not be under-estimated in terms of the time needed
        nor in terms of financial resources especially in an eight countries sub-region;
    · The project should have the flexibility to deal with unexpected developments such
        as: studies results, technology changes or challenges and higher costs. The
        project needs to be managed flexibly;
    · Continued dialogue and involvement with all stakeholders in the design and
        implementation process of the project can alleviate potential conflict between
        divergent views among stakeholders: this is starting to pay off with the new card
        system;
    · Payment systems in general should follow international best practice and BIS
        standards;
    · Payment systems projects where possible should leverage past World Bank and
        IMF work: much work had been done in the financial sector in the various
        countries;

                                             17

   · A strong commitment from key stakeholders is essential;
   · Before undertaking a technically and managerially complex project, the Bank
      needs to place a special emphasis on assuring that adequate institutional and
      procurement capacity is in place; and
   · Finally, with the Bank's current emphasis on "Access to Finance", a payment
      systems project today may be structured differently: such a project would
      probably not only focus on improvements in wholesale markets, i.e. systemically
      important, but also on all segments of retail markets where emphasis may be less
      on competition and more on cooperation.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

No issues have been raised beyond what is mentioned in this ICR.




                                          18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component
                                                      Actual/Latest
          Components              Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
                                    (US$ million)       Estimate
                                                      (US$ million)         Appraisal

PROJECT SUPPORT                            2.60           11.59              446%
RTGS                                       2.47           11.23              454%
CLEARING SYSTEM                            4.05           23.97              592%
BANK CARD SYSTEM                           4.45           16.77              377%
TELECOMMUNICATIONS                         2.76            3.10              112%
             Total Baseline Cost         16.33            66.65              408%
Physical Contingencies                                       0
Price Contingencies                        1.63              0
              Total Project Costs        17.96            66.65              371%
Project Preparation Fund (regional
Stock Exchange)                            1.30            1.30

Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00             0
      Total Financing Required           19.26            67.95              353%

Latest estimates are based on BCEAO internal documents and show a financial execution
rate of less than 60 percent as of November 30, 2007.


(b) Financing

          Source of Funds              Type of      Appraisal Actual/LatestPercentage  of
                                     Cofinancing    Estimate     Estimate
                                                  (US$ million) (US$ million) Appraisal

IDA                                      n/a         9.43          9.43         100%
ADB -African Development Fund          parallel        0           11.11         NA
Counterpart funds from BCEAO           parallel      3.88          13.15        339%
Private Commercial Banks                 n/a         5.95          34.27        576%
                                Total                19.26         67.95        253%

Due to major US$/Euro fluctuations during project period, the following exchange rates
(linked to disbursement timing) have been used:
            -   for IDA: US$1 = FCFA 554 as it is fully disbursed i.e. Euro/US$ = 1.15
            -   Costs & non IDA funds: US$1 = FCFA 488 i.e. a Euro/US$ = 1.3




                                             19

Graph: Evolution of the Euro/Dollar Spot Rate Over the 2000 to 2007 Period.




                              20

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Project Support

This component contributed in many ways to the success of the project. First, by
supporting the establishment of the BCEAO project team initially, which led and still
leads the project.

Second, by drafting of a new legislative and regulatory framework including the
following:
           -    Règlement no. 15/CM/2002/UEMOA about payment systems. Such
                règlement is directly applicable to all countries as it is approved during the
                regional Council of Ministers;
           -    Directive no. 7/CM/2002/UEMOA about Anti Money Laundering
                measures; and
           -    Directive no. 8 concerning measures to encourage use of modern means of
                payments through financial intermediaries.

           Both Directives need to be approved by National Parliaments. So far seven
           parliaments but Cote d'Ivoire have adopted it.

Règlement no. 15 includes the following main items:
           -    BCEAO role in the area of payment systems;
           -    The fact the transaction through the system are irrevocable;
           -    Acknowledgment of multilateral clearing and settlement;
           -    The right to have a bank account under minimum conditions;
           -    Recognizing mechanisms to ensure adequate finality of e-transactions; and
           -    Possibility to use identified negotiable paper as collateral.

Third, three MoUs were produced to define rights and obligations of BCEAO and each
participants or sub-participants in STAR, SICA and CTMI.

Fourth, this component provides the resources to build within the eight WAEMU
countries the needed understanding and capacity necessary to ensure a broad consensus
and thereafter broad dissemination of the legislative and regulatory framework.


Component 2: Real Time Gross Settlement System for high systemic value transfer

The STAR system became operational June 25, 2004. A central system is located in
BCEAO HQ in Dakar, Senegal. Direct participants have direct access to the central
system via SWIFT network; indirect participants via BCEAO VSAT network. Each
national BCEAO Agencies participate and supervise operations. BCEAO HQ is in
charge of technical operations management. All eight SICAs (soon to be nine), the
Regional Stock Exchange (BRVM) and card system (CTMI) settle in STAR.

                                              21

Transfers going through STAR are managed on a FIFO basis taking into account priority
level of transfers indicated by BCEAO or the initiating bank. Should a transaction not be
settled at the end of the day for lack of provision in the settlement account, then it is
rejected and needs to be resubmitted the next day (financial reject).

The system requires high degree of compliance in terms of labeling orders. Initially,
many orders were rejected as the orders were improperly submitted: technical rejects.

During 2006, average transaction time was 41 seconds. Average reject rate was three
percent; most were technical rejects linked to new participants. On both accounts, STAR
has reached its technical objectives i.e. to settle 90 percent of transactions in less than 15
minutes with a rejection rate below five percent.


Component 3: Low value clearing and settlement system

Currently eight (clones) national systems are operational; during the first quarter of 2008,
the ninth system dealing with inter-countries clearing will be operational. This clearing
platform is an addition to the initial design to improve regional integration and provide a
hot back up to each national SICA. Overall, this current solution (8+1) grew out of the
existing organization, modernizing manual ways of doing business and not rethinking a
radically different way of doing business by removing local access points in secondary
BCEAO locations. In the future, there will be most probably scope for economies of
scale. In the data transmission part, national local radio loops were initially planned; but
after the technical, security and costing studies it was decided that dedicated landlines
were more cost effective. Investments in digitization of paper instruments became more
expensive as commercial banks did not always unite to purchase scanning equipment.

Start-up problems occurred at the beginning, linked to:

            -   fear of fraud, but those proved to be unfounded;
            -   fear that electronic proof is insufficiently legally binding and as a result in
                some countries, banks are still exchanging both e-files and paper;
            -   issues are still pending related to paper archiving;
            -   adequate scanning of documents: in some rare cases, 10 percent of images
                are missing; and
            -   size of IT investments needed i.e. scanners and software interface
                developments between various systems.


Component 4: Bank card system

This component supported and resulted in the establishment of GIM-UEMOA and
CTMI-UEMOA. After four years GIM can claim 73 member banks i.e. 70 percent of
banks and 85 percent of clients. The largest most advanced banks are not yet part of GIM.
Issues were obviously competitive position and their investments. This situation is being
resolved as GIM is helping those subsidiaries of large French groups to make the

                                               22

business case to join GIM. GIM has negotiated good deals with both VISA and
MASTERCARD on behalf of the members, agreed on acceptable guarantee funds. GIM
is now ready also to include microfinance institutions as members. However, the large
looming presence of BCEAO, which facilitated the process, has created confusion
somehow insofar that banks are not sure whether this is a BCEAO initiative or their own
This business must remain in the private sector, and GIM and BCEAO should be
communicating more in that respect. GIM is at a critical time evidenced by its lack of
resources and low activity which may be the result of the lack of enthusiasm from
members to contribute financially more to its development. The December 2007 General
Assembly, focused on reforming/adapting structures and institutions to support better the
interoperability goal and ensure faster results. The fact that the CTMI is truly operational
since mid 2007 and has demonstrated its technical capability has created a new dynamic
among banks to join especially the smaller ones. But those do not always have all the
needed resources to join-in, as a card-system represents a complex endeavor and sizable
investment. Nevertheless, as of mid-February 2008, six banks from four countries7 were
already connected through CTMI-UEMOA and seven more banks from an additional two
countries8 were in the process of being connected.


Component 5: Telecommunications

To be noted that initial assumptions were based on National Telecom companies offering
adequate services. This was not always the case and prompted changes to ensure
satisfactory data transmission.

As a result, the final telecom architecture is as follows. In the case of STAR, the data
transmission channel is SWIFT from each bank to BCEAO HQ. In case of problems,
banks communicate with BCEAO National agency via dedicated lines and BCEAO
VSAT relays to HQ. In the case of SICA, each participating bank has a dedicated line to
BCEAO National Agency; the result of the low value clearing (multilateral balances) is
transmitted to BCEAO HQ into STAR via BCEAO VSAT. The regional stock exchange
(BRVM) and its Central depository/settlement bank use a dedicated line to link to STAR.
The card processing and clearing system (CTMI) has its own private VSAT network
between countries and Dakar and a dedicated landline to STAR.

BCEAO VSAT network is the critical backbone and was upgraded in the course of the
project. Its capacity was multiplied by more than four. Currently its capacity is used at
70 percent approximately and, according to IT Department, its availability is 99.9 percent.
This upgrade allowed BCEAO to install videoconferencing between its main offices,
from which the ICR mission benefited.



7CNCAS - Senegal; BIB - Burkina; Attijari Bank - Senegal; BACB - Burkina; BDM - Mali; BIAO - Cote
d'Ivoire.

8BFA - Cote d'Ivoire; Versus Bank - Cote d'Ivoire; BNI - Cote d'Ivoire; CNCE - Cote d'Ivoire; BIA -
Niger; BRS Group ­ Senegal & Mali; BTD - Togo.


                                                  23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


An economic and financial analysis was not provided in the PAD as it was argued that
quantifying all identified benefits was too difficult. This is still true. However, in this
section, we seek to provide some information about pricing policy of the both systems
STAR and SICA.

BCEAO is not providing these payment services to the commercial banks for free
although, in an initial phase lasting a few months, services were provided free of charge;
then BCEAO introduced and enforced its pricing policy.

BCEAO has established for both STAR and SICA, a yearly fixed fee meant to contribute
to systems amortization and a flat fee per operation meant to cover cost of operations. In
the case of STAR, the fee per operation varies according to the time of the day: a transfer
requested in the morning is cheaper than in late afternoon9. Both levels of fixed fee and
fee per operation were based on business assumptions (number of transactions) which
have proven optimistic. For the time being, BCEAO is subsidizing operations although
to what extent exactly is not entirely clear as in the case of SICA as there are not yet
enough track records.

With regard to SICA, the level set by BCEAO of CFA170 per cleared check seems to hit
a resistance barrier at least in Senegal where commercial banks are passing on 100
percent of that cost to their customers.

Pricing policy by both BCEAO and banks is strategic: during a recent Regional FSAP it
was recognized that BCEAO main challenge is that such technological reform is not
confiscated by banks and that bank customers share those benefits. It was recommended
to BCEAO not to forget the main goal which is to improve access to finance. In that
respect, the pricing policy is one instrument that can contribute to creating incentives to
bring people into the financial system and to use less cash, including e-money as soon as
it will be broadly available.




9First, BCEAO computed total investments costs for each system and then estimated operational costs.
Investments are amortized over a five-year period and shared among participant: an annual fee is invoiced
by BCEAO. Operational costs have been determined based on assumptions made on the number and
volume of operation per year to establish the price per operation. The price will be reviewed annually.


                                                     24

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Ann Rennie               Lead Financial Sector Specialist    AFTFS TTL (1999-2001)
Noel Tshiani             Senior Financial Sector Specialist  AFTFS TTL (2001)
Charlie Garriges         Consultant                           FSD    TTL (2002-2004)
Sherri Archondo          Senior Operations Officer           AFTFS TTL (2004-2006)
Olivier Lambert          Senior Financial Sector Specialist AFTPD TTL ICR

Maïmouna Savané          Private Sector Development
                         Specialist                          AFTPS

Bourama Diaite           Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPC Procurement
Fily Sissoko             Sr Financial Mgmt. Specialist      LCSFM Financial Mgmt
Keba Ba                  Financial Analyst                  AfDB
Mahdi Ahmed Ismail       Financial Analyst                  AfDB

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks       US$Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                      32.00                      180.73
  FY99                                      39.76                      219.69
  FY00                                      24.67                      136.29
  FY01                                        7.37                      41.01
                        Total:              32.04                      577.72
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                        3.77                      72.89
  FY02                                      14.33                       61.26
  FY03                                      17.80                       50.38
  FY04                                      20.94                      100.40
  FY05                                        4.39                      27.68
  FY06                                        3.11                      19.80
  FY07                                        0.75                       9.70
  FY08                                        0.78                       5.8
                        Total:              65.87                      347.91




                                         25

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                    26

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                  27

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



                             SUMMARY COMPLETION REPORT
                  BCEAO REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEMS PROJECT
                                   FOR WAEMU COUNTRIES


INTRODUCTION

         The Summary Completion Report synthesized here concerns a Credit Agreement
between the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and the International Development
Association (IDA), signed in 2001. The focus of the Agreement is the BCEAO Regional Payment
Systems Project for the WAEMU Countries (WAEMU is the West African Economic and Monetary
Union), part of a general effort to accelerate regional economic integration, strengthen the
financial system, improve the monetary policy framework and support previous BCEAO
interventions.

Given the weakness of payment systems in the WAEMU zone, the BCEAO undertook to
modernize them and its Governor established a task force in 1998: the "reform mission"; its
activities were expanded in 2000 to include management of the payment incident center. Project
feasibility studies concluded in 2001 with the validation of a number of options, from which
strategic reform themes were selected. The Project received financing from the World Bank, the
African Development Bank and the BCEAO itself.

The Report describes the Project's implementation and assesses its implementation and impact.


1. PAYMENT SYSTEM REFORM WITHIN THE WAEMU

1.1 Background

         The Project is justified by a number of shortcomings, including the absence of a well-
organized system to handle transfers quickly and securely; the low level of payment automation,
resulting in delays and cash flow problems; the inadequate use of modern payment mechanisms
such as bank cards; the poor performance, in terms of transaction times, of current systems; and
the unsuitability of the current legal framework.

1.2 Project objectives

         The basic objectives of the Project are to improve the efficacy and efficiency of payment
systems in the sub-region, and to limit systemic risk; to facilitate economic and trade relations
between economic actors; to expand the reach and role of the financial sector in the economies
of WAEMU member countries; and to consolidate the BCEAO's monetary policy oversight and
implementation instruments.

The sub-regional dimension is a crucial element of this initiative, as economic integration has
been suffering from the inadequacy of payment infrastructures. The proposed expansion of the
WAEMU Zone was also taken into account, to allow for future growth without disrupting existing
infrastructures.

By strengthening basic financial infrastructures, reducing costs and processing times, improving
the security of transactions, and promoting new payment instruments, the Project will accelerate
economic development, further stabilize the financial sector, and improve its efficacy. These
changes are expected to have a positive impact on both the banking and financial system and the
population.




                                                 28

1.3 Project description

    The reform of WAEMU payment systems focuses on three main themes:

    · The modernization of the systems for large transactions or systematically important
        payments, through the introduction of a Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system
        known as STAR-UEMOA.
    · The modernization of the systems for retail payments, through the introduction of an
        automated clearing system known as SICA-UEMOA.
    · The development of a regional bank card system, initiated by the BCEAO, through a
        WAEMU group for inter-bank bank card payment (GIM-UEMOA) and a WAEMU inter-
        bank payment center for bank cards (CTMI-UEMOA).

These three systems are governed by a solid legal and regulatory framework; an array of
management principles in compliance with international standards of security, processing times
and risk management; and a reworking of the mechanisms used by the payment risk
management entity. They are supported by a broadband telecommunications infrastructure,
ensuring optimal quality at minimum cost.

2. IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
2.1 The WAEMU automated transfer and payment system (STAR-UEMOA)

        STAR-UEMOA went into service on June 25, 2004; each transaction is settled on a
gross, real-time basis. STAR-UEMOA is characterized by quick processing, high security, wide
availability and affordable cost, and adheres to the following principles:

    · Irrevocability of the transaction.
    · Processing of orders according to priority level and arrival sequence.
    · Automatic verification of adequate funds in the payer account.
    · Immediate imputation of transactions to the accounts involved.

Prior to STAR-UEMOA, payment instructions between participants from WAEMU countries were
processed through their current accounts at the BCEAO and the provision of funds between
National Branches, requiring one to five days. With STAR-UEMOA, payments are practically
instantaneous and occur in a few seconds. The reduction in transaction fees is also significant:
the true cost of a transaction worked out to CFAF 2,196 for 2006, while a STAR-UEMOA
transaction billed to banks costs between CFAF 150 and 420 due to a BCEAO operating subsidy.
Banks also enjoy a fee-free start-up period of six months, and pay, instead of CFAF 7,000,000,
an annual fee of CFAF 5,500,000 or CFAF 6,000,000 (for direct and indirect participants
respectively), payable over five years, to cover investments and the cost of any future changes.

STAR-UEMOA has since expanded, to include the Regional Stock Exchange transactions, the
automated clearing system (SICA-UEMOA), and that of the inter-bank payment center for bank
cards (CTMI-UEMOA). The system is operating to the satisfaction of all participants, and positive
trends can be noted in the performance indicators.

2.2 The WAEMU automated clearing system (SICA-UEMOA)

        SICA-UEMOA became operational in stages between November 17, 2005 and June 28,
2007, and constitutes a major innovation. Previously, inter-bank transactions transited daily
through the 23 clearinghouses of the Union, in the main branches or sub branches of the
BCEAO; the clearing process was essentially manual. With SICA-UEMOA, trades are paperless
and backed by scanned images; participants transmit transaction details electronically, from their
own offices and in all cities in which the BCEAO is represented. The maximum settlement time for
checks is one day after presentation, and transfers are settled on the same day.




                                                 29

SICA-UEMOA consists of nine automated clearing systems, namely eight national systems and
one regional system. Participants pay an annual subsidized fee of CFAF 5,000,000, instead of
CFAF 12,324,960; invoicing of offset orders, to cover operating costs, is done quarterly for a unit
cost of CFAF 170 per transaction. As the system started up in each country, banks were
exempted from paying the invoices for the first quarter of operation. Transactions from January 1
to September 30, 2007, totaled 4,366,953, for a value of CFAF 12,777 billion. The introduction of
the sub-regional system remains to be completed, but transaction testing is underway with a view
to starting up in January 2008. The establishment of the SICA-UEMOA guarantee fund by late
December 2008 is also a necessary step in achieving compliance with international standards of
credit offset system protection.

The banking sector must now foster the emergence of an inter-bank exchange `space', and
encourage discussion of any associated problems; working groups on banking integration have
been created at the initiative of the BCEAO at the national and regional levels. The BCEAO has
also supported the creation of an association gathering all professional groups and regulatory
bodies in the banking and financial sector and responsible for addressing any standardization
needs (CONOBAFI).

2.3 The regional inter-bank card payment system

          The bank card component of the reform is focused on the integration of banking in the
Union; the introduction of a bank card valid throughout the WAEMU zone and beyond; and the
use of embedded, EMV-compliant chips to enhance transaction security.

WAEMU's system features an inter-bank payment center for bank cards, CTMI-UEMOA, and an
inter-bank card governance body, GIM-UEMOA (currently with 74 members). Together they
promote the expansion of bank card integration within the Union and handle the operational and
technical aspects of bank cards. CTMI-UEMOA has been providing bank card services for GIM-
UEMOA member establishments since June 15, 2007.

A VSAT-based telecommunications architecture is already operational in Burkina Faso, Mali and
Senegal, and since August 2007 five banks in these countries are enjoying regional
interoperability: their customers can use the bank card terminals of any of the other four banks.
Deployment of the VSAT network in other countries is being phased in, and each WAEMU
member country will eventually install a dedicated VSAT relay antenna for bank card
transactions, located within a GIM-UEMOA member bank.

2.4 Legal frameworks of reform

          The legislative framework for payment systems went into effect on September 19, 2002,
after its approval by the WAEMU Council of Ministers, and consists of the following basic texts:

    · Regulation 15/CM/2002/UEMOA concerning payment systems in WAEMU member
          countries, which defines the respective roles played by banks, the courts, the Central
          Bank, and the general public.
    · Directive 08/CM/2002/UEMOA concerning measures to promote access to banking
          facilities and the use of non-cash payment.
    · Instruction 01/SP/2006 of the BCEAO concerning the issuance of electronic currency and
          e-currency establishments.
    · Laws transposing the Directives to the national level.

2.5 The Payment Incidents Center (CIP)

          The Project allowed for a critical review of the CIP's legal and regulatory framework, and
a new version of the CIP's data processing application was put in place to allow automation
between payment rejections and corresponding CIP entries. This new mechanism will enhance
payment security and the confidence of economic actors, but its start-up also depends on the
updating of information systems of the account-holding establishments (ETC); implementation will
be effective once the overall declaration rate for a country exceeds 75 percent. Senegal and Mali
(rates of 78.66 percent and about 75 percent respectively) can plan on starting the new CIP data-

                                                  30

processing application in the first quarter of 2008; other WAEMU countries can expect
commissioning of the CIP mechanism in the first half of 2008.

2.6 The telecommunications system

          The private telecommunications network linking BCEAO sites has been strengthened by
national operators to meet the needs of the new payment systems. The installation of
telecommunications links to connect banks and financial institutions to SICA-UEMOA is complete
in practically all countries.

2.7 Surveillance of payment systems

          After launching the payment systems, the BCEAO began to implement its oversight; it is
concerned with the security and efficacy of all payment systems within WAEMU, whether or not
they are BCEAO-operated. Oversight focuses on the smooth functioning of all systems on the
basis of exchanges of information, in-depth consultation with operators, and spot-checks.

2.8 Administrative and financial management

          BCEAO authorities assigned to the reform mission (MRSMP), the task of implementing
the Project in WAEMU member countries. A payment systems directorate (DSP) was created to
manage and oversee the new systems, and payment systems departments were created within
the BCEAO national agencies. Financial management is essentially based on the Project's
manual of accounting, administrative and financial procedure prepared by the MRSMP and
approved by the World Bank.

As of October 30, 2007, public expenditures for the Project were funded by the IDA, the African
Development Fund (AFD) and the BCEAO. Funds totaling CFAF 9.292 million were committed,
for a utilization rate of 54.4 percent. These public investments led to private sector investments by
participants, estimated at around CFAF 19,483 million FCFA. Expenditures for payment system
reform totaled CFAF 28,830 million (breakdown in CFAF millions: management (3,166); RTGS
(3,400); credit off-setting (compensation) (10,516); bank cards (10,770); telecommunications
(978)).

By the end of the Project, expenditures will total CFAF 36,533 million (breakdown in CFAF
millions: RTGS (9,098), credit off-setting (15,487) and bank cards (11,949)).

At start-up, projected costs of CFAF 11,881 million were financed by the IDA (CFAF 5,227
million), the BCEAO (CFAF 2,115 million), and commercial banks (CFAF 4,539 million). By the
end of the Project, overall costs which were triple those projected, will total CFAF 36,533 million
and will be financed by the IDA (CFAF 5,203 million), the AFD (CFAF 5,425 million), the BCEAO
(CFAF 6,422 million) and commercial banks (CFAF 19,483 million). The cost increase is mainly
due to an under-estimate of the costs of changing the information systems of participants; to the
expansion of the project's scope to include a payment delivery system using scanned images;
and to the intensification of communication and training activities necessary to the reform.

Despite the under-estimate of costs to be borne by the commercial banks, it appears that 53
percent of the reform, instead of the initially forecast 38 percent, will be privately funded. The
reform thus brought about substantial private investment, and public funds (IDA/AFD/BCEAO) will
cover 47 percent of costs instead of the initially forecast 62 percent.


3. PROJECT PERFORMANCE

3.1 Assessment of Project design

          Upon completion of the Project, what results were achieved?

STAR-UEMOA: The number of participants in STAR-UEMOA quintupled, from 19 at start-up
(June 2004) to 104 (November 2007). The average number of daily transactions processed
increased six-fold between 2004 (224) and October 2007 (1,469). The average daily value of
transactions performed totaled CFAF 221.1 billion in October 2007, compared to CFAF 73.2
billion in June 2004. Average daily bank liquidity was CFAF 595 billion in October 2007.

                                                  31

Performance indicator results are robust:

      · The average annual technical rejection rate was 3 percent as of the end of October 2007,
          meeting the maximum standard of 5 percent.
      · The rate of rejection for insufficient funds averaged 0.02 percent in October 2007 --well
          below the maximum standard of 1 percent.
      · Between January 1 and December 31, 2006, the monthly average payment settlement
          time under STAR-UEMOA was 41 seconds, compared to 57 seconds in 2005.
      · Over 97 percent of payments are performed in less than 15 minutes (performance
          indicator baseline is 90 percent).
      · STAR-UEMOA has helped intensify trade and financial integration among WAEMU
          countries.
      · The volume of trans-border transactions has increased steadily, from 24,648 in 2004 to
          26,688 in 2005, to 51,503 in 2006.
      · The value of inter-country payments was CFAF 1,014.1 billion in 2004, CFAF 3,207
          billion in 2005 and CFAF 3,602.2 billion in 2006.

SICA-UEMOA: The number of transactions processed in the system is increasing steadily,
reflecting growing user confidence. SICA-UEMOA is operating on the basis digital files and
images, and processing times and the risk of error have been reduced: rejections over the entire
period due to error or inadequate mastery of the system represented about 0.01 percent of items
submitted.

The legal framework: The legal framework should be complete with the establishment of further
legal measures, expected in the course of 2008.

Regional inter-bank bank cards: The establishment of a card-based payment system has
experienced a developmental delay, due to problems in the participating banks, funding and
technical constraints, and the installation of the CTMI-UEMOA platform. Overall funding of CFAF
2.2 billion was not obtained until 2006. CTMI-UEMOA is in production however, with five banks
connected in Burkina Faso, Mali and Senegal, and another 35 to be connected during 2008.

The payment incident center (CIP): Start-up remains dependent on the updating of banking
information systems and account-holder rosters, the availability of the ETC access network and
the new software package. The new application is to start up in the first semester of 2008.

3.2 Achievement of Project objectives

          Overall and where the financial sector is concerned, the objectives of the Project have
been achieved and will be consolidated further as a high-quality management process is put in
place. Non-financial actors and the general public have yet to enjoy the results of the reform, and
a communications campaign has been initiated by BCEAO.

3.3 Achievement of financial and economic forecasts

          Financial forecasts, based on the number of participants and transactions, have not been
fulfilled to the degree anticipated.

Financial forecasts: Relative to the forecasts, only the number of participants increased
significantly.

      · The objective was 60 participants in STAR-UEMOA and SICA-UEMOA by the end of the
          second year, and these rose from 73 in 2005 to 87 in 2006, to 104 by the end of
          November 2007.
      · Regarding STAR-UEMOA, the `low-case' scenario predicted 546,645 transactions per
          year over a five-year period. Transactions totaled 186,584 in 2005, 287,430 in 2006, and
          341,748 from January 1 to November 30, 2007. By 2009 actual results will be close to
          forecasts, even if the targets are not reached.
      · Regarding SICA-UEMOA it was forecast that 18 million transactions would be processed
          annually, on the strength of a predicted maximum flow of 22 million transactions. The
          total number of transactions for purposes of unit cost calculation was estimated in 2004

                                                   32

          and totaled about 6,000,000 transactions per year. Transactions totaled 3,165,300 in
          2006, and 4,366,953 between January 1 and September 30, 2007. The forecasts
          assumed the operation of nine systems year-round; however this will not be the case until
          2008 due to the phased start-up of SICA-UEMOA.

Forecasts of 150,000 cards and 1,000 ATMs, 3,900,000 withdrawals, and 1,800,000 payments
per year will not be achievable until the traffic borne by regional inter-bank cards increases and all
banks are connected.

Economic forecasts: Economic forecasts have been fulfilled satisfactorily, and the new payment
systems have clearly promoted significant economic progress. They have helped to accelerate
the processing of financial transactions; introduced new and cheaper cash management options
to reduce floats and boost yields; reduced the need for economic operators to keep large
amounts of cash on hand; and encouraged the BCEAO to gradually control systemic risk.

3.4 Capacity-building

          The project's implementation and smooth operation have required great investment on
the part of the BCEAO in capacity development, and in seminars for all actors involved.

3.5 Project implementation

          To ensure the success of the Project beyond organizational and logistical structures,
precedence was given to reaching consensus and the BCEAO developed a strategy to ensure
the collaboration of the banking profession, public authorities and end-users. It established
consultative structures, and this approach has proved successful. The implementation period,
initially set at four years, was extended due to difficulties encountered with telecommunications
installations and with the slowness of certain banks.

3.6 Experience gained

          The role of the BCEAO was crucial in the modernization of payment systems. Strong
inter-bank cooperation enabled substantial economies of scale, and laid the groundwork for
efficient and profitable systems. Naturally, a suitable balance must be struck between cooperation
and competition. The cautious approach to implementation of this Project avoided outcomes that
might have been too complex to manage, and the BCEAO took care to ensure overall project
coherence. The BCEAO managed to design a sub-regional integration model for payment
systems, which also constitutes a foundation for broader applications.

3.7 Monitoring and evaluation

          A survey of users is conducted each year, to assess the economic impact of project
achievements. The World Bank has also sent regular supervision missions; a total of nine
assessment missions have taken place, and these have accurately monitored Project
investments, disbursements and progress, as well as improving scheduling and implementation.
In addition, surveys have been conducted to gage user satisfaction with the new systems.

Results indicate that the new payment systems have greatly contributed to regional and financial
sector integration, to private sector development, and to greater efficiency and security.


4. CONSTRAINTS AND PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED

          A number of constraints and difficulties have been noted in the course of the Project:

     · Delays due to the preparation of participants and the inadequacy of allocated resources.
     · Delays associated with country-level telecommunications operators.
     · Project management.

4.1 Preparation of participants

          In all Project components, preparation of participants was hampered by a low level of
reactivity on their part, especially regarding technical and operational prerequisites. During

                                                   33

installation of STAR-UEMOA many banks failed to complete their preparatory tasks, and the
BCEAO was obliged to carry these out. Regarding the regional inter-bank bank card system,
lengthy reaction times were the norm on the part of participating banks. Preparation of
participants for SICA-UEMOA was the most complex task, involving the reorganization of banking
information systems as well as the installation of systems to interface with the central clearing
system.

4.2 Delays due to telecommunications operators

         Project set-up was delayed by difficulties with national telecommunications operators:
connections were not installed in a timely manner, due to administrative delays in the completion
of technical prerequisites and in equipment supplies. Regarding the installation of SICA-UEMOA,
the establishment of a regional radio link was foreseen; this involved the acquisition of private
licenses from regional regulatory agencies, which declined to grant them. The BCEAO instead
asked banks to approach telecommunications operators for specialized and back-up links to its
network.

4.3 Project management

         Overall, project management did not encounter any major problems. Implementation
suffered initial delays due to the failure of the World Bank Task Manager to transmit non-
objections in a timely manner in connection with bidding invitations; the frequent turnover in
project officers (four in all) at the World Bank also impeded smooth communication. The Task
Manager's organization of a meeting with the main French parties involved in the bank card
system, without informing the payment reform mission, was also a negative incident.

The project is essentially the responsibility of the Borrower, and hinges on the latter's
commitment.


CONCLUSION

         Beginning in 2004, the modernization of payment systems reached a new stage in 2007
with the launch of SICA-UEMOA and of inter-bank bank card operations. These BCEAO systems
meet current international standards, and their efficiency is continually enhanced.

The BCEAO has also initiated discussions with the banking community to achieve greater price
transparency, including the reduction of account maintenance fees; this is an important step in
the implementation of relevant regulations and directives concerning payment and banking
systems. Information campaigns have been initiated in all countries of the Union, in an effort to
stimulate the use of banking facilities. A further communications campaign, directed at the
general public, will also be carried out in 2008.

This large-scale Project, led by the BCEAO with support from the World Bank and the African
Development Bank, is beginning to bear fruit. It will foster the growth of financial infrastructures,
and ultimately economic and social development, in all WAEMU member countries.




                                                 34

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

To be noted that the ICR mission overlapped to some extent with an ADB supervision
mission; this allowed some exchanges in the field. The following is a summary of
comments made by current ADB task manager.


ADB' evaluation report was presented in August 15, 2002 to its Board for approval as co
financed and not as additional financing of an already designed project; it supported the
main components. Closing of ADB credit is scheduled for July 31, 2008.

ADB's current evaluation of the project's impact on payment systems modernization is
rated satisfactory. The timing difference in IDA and ADB support has an impact on
results observed on credit closing dates.

ADB suggests drawing the following lesson: improve planning and coordination between
IDA and ADB for future joint operation.




                                            35

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


  1.     Aide Mémoires, Back to Office Reports, Project Supervision Reports,
         Implementation Status and Results Reports.

  2.     Bilan et Perspectives des Systèmes et Moyens de Paiement dans L'UEMOA,
         du fiduciaire à l'électronique, du manuel à l'automatisation, 1998-2000,
         BCEAO.

  3.     Conception d'un système de paiement moderne dans les pays de l'UMOA,
         Rapport Final Phase I, Février 2000, Ernst & Young.

  4.     Architecture fonctionnelle, Architecture technique, Organisation, Rapport de
         la Phase II, Rapport sur les Architectures des Systèmes de Paiement, 1999,
         Ernst & Young Conseil.

  5.     Conception d'un système de paiement moderne dans les pays de l'UMOA,
         Rapport Final Phase III, Février 2000, Ernst & Young.


  6.     Project Appraisal Document, BCEAO Regional Payment System Project,
         Report No: 20917 AFR, September 26, 2000.

  7.     Development Credit Agreement, BCEAO Regional Payment System Project,
         Credit No. 3424 WAFC, January 10, 2001.

  8.     Etude de faisabilité d'un Porte Monnaie Electronique, Rapport Final, Juillet
         24, 2001.

  9.     Regional Integration Assistance Strategy for West Africa, Report No. 22520-
         AFR, July 11, 2001.

  10.    Préparation de la mise en oeuvre du Système de Compensation des Paiements
         de Masse, Etape 1 : Mise à Jour de la Conception du Système de
         Compensation, Version Provisoire, Septembre 7, 2001.

  11.    Préparation de la mise en oeuvre du Système de Compensation des Paiements
         de Masse, Etape 2 : Modalités d'Insertion du Système de Compensation au
         sein de la BCEAO, Version Provisoire, Septembre 7, 2001.

  12.    Préparation de la mise en oeuvre du Système de Compensation des Paiements
         de Masse, Etape 3 : Modalités d'Insertion du Système de Compensation dans
         les Etablissements Bancaires, Version Provisoire, Septembre 11, 2001.

  13.    Multinational BCEAO, Projet de Réforme des Systèmes et Moyens de
         Paiement dans le Pays de l'UEMOA, Rapport d'Evaluation, BAD / Fonds
         Africain de Développement, Juillet 2002.

                                          36

14. Relevé des Conclusions de la Réunion du Comité des Experts en Systèmes de
    Paiement, du 20 au 22 janvier 2003.

15. Enquête de Base auprès des Usagers des Systèmes et Moyens de Paiement
    dans les Pays de l'UEMOA, Rapport Final, BCEAO, Juillet 2, 2002 et
    enquêtes en 2005 et 2006.

16. Regional Integration in West Africa, Review of Strategies and Priorities,
    (Draft report 2006).

17. Rapport sur les Systèmes de Paiement dans L'Union Economique et
    Monétaire Ouest Africaine (UEMOA) pour l'année 2005, (BCEAO 2006).

18. Mission de Supervision, Banque Mondiale/Banque Africaine de
    Développement, Etat d'avancement de la réalisation du Projet de Réforme des
    Systèmes et Moyens de Paiement dans l'UEMOA, Avril 2007.

19. Rapport de Surveillance des Systèmes de Paiement Opérés par la BCEAO-
    Analyse des Incidents (2007, BCEAO).

20. Rapport d'Achèvement du projet de la réforme des systèmes de paiement dans
    l'UEMOA. (Dakar, 26 Décembre 2007 ­ BCEAO DECF /DSP)




                                   37

