Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repout No. 11986-CR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COSTA RICA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM -
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEK PROJECT
sEPTEIBER 20, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Rergort No: 11986 CR
Type: SAR
Country Department II
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Thi documeot has a resicted distribution and may be usod by recipients only in the performance of
their offiial duties. Its contents may not oterise be disclosed whout World Bank authoriZatio.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENS
Currn  Unit  -   Costa Rican Col6n
US$ 1         =    CR Col6n 137 (Tune 1993)
CR Col6n 1.00       US$ 0.0073
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CABEI  Centmal American Bank for Economic Integration (Banco Cem merickaio
de Integraci6n Econdmica)
CCSS   Costa Rican Social Security System (Caja Costarmcense de Seguro Socal)
CENDEISSS Center for Strategic Development and Applied Research for Health and
Social Security (Centro Naconal de Desarrollo Estrategico e Informacidn
en Salud y Seguridad Social)
DRG   Diagnostic-Related Group
BBAIS Basic Team of Comprehensive Health Care (Equipo BPsico de Atenci6n
Integral de Sa5d
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
ICB   Intrational Competitive Bidding
IDB   InterAmerican Development Bank
INS   National Insurance Institute (Insdtuto Nacional de Seguros)
INCENSA Costa Rican Institute of Scientific Research and Teaching of Nutrition and
Health Sciences
ntM    CCSS Old Age, Disability, and Life Insurance Program (Inwvaldz, Vejez y
Muerte)
LCB   Local Competitive Bidding
MIS  Management Information System
MOF   Ministry of Finance
MOH   Ministry of Health
OED   Op"rations Evaluatioi Department
PAHO PanAmerican Health Orgianizaton
PCU   Project Coordination Unit
PPU   Project Preparation Unit
SAL   Structural Adjustment Loan
SEM CCSS Sickness and Maternity Benefits (Seguro de Enfermedad y
Maternida)
SOE Statement of Exenditures
TORs  Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
HEALTH SECTOR RORM -
SOCLAL SECURirY SYSWM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROE2Cr S            Y   .AR  ................................. v
BASIC DATASHEET                 ....................              .................. 
L BACKGROUND    ...................................... 1
R m  in the          of  eath  ............................... 2
Rorom in teCCSS  .. .. ..........................  .  3
IL SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY  .....                     .............  3
A. DemuanIssues ...................................... 3
Acce   ......................                                          3
cbuli4E        d       obgk  PwSE    ........................   5
D. Supply Lam  ............................... C
I"tqcationDBetewoe MOB and CCSS .....................   6
'~~-o   m              REiesorcesa ...................... . 7
!immstehiandM WOWSuppHa ......................   8
C.    c Mamet Iss..................... 9
SbfW   fRaenus .................... ...... 9
RwoutCB Mbgmn anld Alboc           ..o ..............   I... 11-11
Mangement lfnmatioyn S         .........................  12
D.- Govonm        ectr  SU        .....................                     12
La*-Tn  mes# ...................... ...... 1S
m. LESSONS LEARNED FROM EXPUrENCI COTER DONORS AND BANK
StRA7E .............................. 15
A. Policy IDope ad Pwjet Eqx ie    ....................... 15
Govemment Noammtm t NaInfr-Agency Coordination, ad
11-    p-I cmsskny .........................  16
lbit and Simp  Design .......................                         16
is ipois based on thefidigs fapre-p.amusAlon d*w vld CostaRca In Februay-March.
1993 and an app ralal ission coduce In May-Jwse, 1993. Bh _dssmi    we led by Ms Carm
Hmn  (Fndpal Operato Onficer, I2MV, and Inlded Heor Sanchez (Soadd Seacry and
Heal               Comn.), Nyda Afafgla (Pbic Healh Con.), Jlama Ceon  (Ec:ons.
L2A3), H beroo Gvria (Sppes an Logs Con=), and Maria Anderon (Opera Anast
Cons.). Addtoally, Mr. owMnar RodrgWez SPp   and Logs  Co4.) paicpad In te fS
mision, and Mr. Cesar  arzo Mngem  Cons.) h appraL Mews. Edilen Seaw, I2R,
ad Ky. Woo Lee, L2I, anr the Deparent Direc   and D hAn (J6 repcdve, for Msth
operaton. Pee retVers for ts prjec are MWIlam McGvy and Ptdp Mtusgrow (PHN), and
Thom  Gaeser a2C2). Mr. VM  Ngyen Medi   d  produedt final rwrt.
This document has a restritted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefol,r.:r,
or their oMcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-fi-
Montoring and Evaluation ndicaos ........................ . 17
Staff Mix and Asigunent in Reuot  Aim   ....................... . , 17
Adeq!iate Supevisi.  ....        .....  .....*.....  17
Ptojed       S      uaA .....  *... 0.......... *...  . ..... 18i
B.  h RnoleOf  ti oerDono .s o..........                      ..........44. 18
C. Bank Sttegy and Role  .............              ................. 19
IV.      PROJECT   .........................................20
A. Rationde for Bank nolvemnent ......          ......................  20
B. PIroje  Ojecives .................. ..........   .            . ' .... . .. 21
C. Min oject Featums  .................................. 21
D. Descrtion of Componts ..........                .  ....  .... 22
Component 1: CCSS  stitutonal Reform ad t                ......... 22
Component 2: Redefimd Primay Hedlth Care MoI , QuaHly
Assurance aWd Hospital Study     .       .    .     ..... .      29
Componan 3: Resource                and Pil  Tesng of Aieniative
Modesof HealthCareFn mancig ....................               . 32
Component 4: Naiondal Hth  Surveiance and Qualiy Control
LIa4bwaty ................. .................                    35
Componet S. Project Coordination Unit ............. . ... 36
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCU.EKENr.. . 37
A. PISrjecCog .        .. .       .... ........................ 37
B. acremental Recurrnt Costs ......... 38
C. FEnazpinngPan................ ..... 34
D. Pfxmiu..e..e.......... 40
B. Dibrsemnet ...................... . . . . .                             .  42
F. AccontingandAuditing                      .......... 43
G. R     ness fbr Project   peI   ai .... ........................    .    .. 43
VI. eMPLEMENTATION, MANAGEMENT, SUPERVION AND EVALUATION .. 44
A. Pnject PnnbmiM  and                  ......................... 44
Aimnu  Reviews .................................                        44
B. suervision Statwy    .................................  45
C. Montorig andE         i  ....... ......................... 45
Mid-Term Review ......... ...............                               45
VW. BENEFrSAND RIS  ... ........................ 4..4....                            46
overalBene.fits *.. . ... ....  46
Project EcononiicfBefWs  ..................................     46
Ris    ..........................                            .     .    ..... 48
EnvironnetaRaig  ..............................                               48
Program Objeve Categories    ................................. 4
Vli. AGREEMEmNT  REACHED AND RECOMMAENDAITON   ............                       .. 48
Recoiiencaion ......................................... 52



ANNEXES
1.   Hal Sector Powcy Staet
2.    Health Sector Data
3.    Tm   ealt Systm
4.    Fnaing of elth Sercs
S.    Redied Priy Hoalth Can Model
6.    Pilot Testing of Fiacing
7.    Project Coordiation Unit
8.    Montoring and Evaluaion: Key Indicato
9.    Selected Detailed Ptoject Cost Tables
10. D
11.   SupervWi  Plan
12.  Marices of Issues and Policy Acims and LIirn to Project Co _"
13.  Prj  Implem_ation Schedule
14.   Seected Docma_n in Prect Fles
MAPS
IBRD No. 24886 - Costa Rica: Heath Sector Refom Pnqect - Socidal Securty System
Componet
MRD No. 24887 - Costa Rica: Health Sector Reform Project - Soci Secort System
Component - Huetar Atlntica Region



[luq UK ad sjJ
-MA-



COSTA RICA
HEALTH SECTOR REPORM -
SOCIAL SEURY SYSTEM ROJECT
STAFF APPRAJSAL REPORT
LOAN AND POJECT SUMMARY
Borrower          Republc of Costa Ria
Benullclarles     Costa Rican Social Sert Symm (Ce4a Cotarkse   de Segro
Soda, CCSS) and Cota Rican but of Scientfic Research and
Teachg of Nutitim  and Health Scences (INCIESA)
Auwu_              US$22.0 million
Tamnus            Rpyment in 17 ye  includig four years of grace with intet at the
fank's standd varable rae
Projet Objedives The proposed prjet would s        the Goemet's dfort in the
ImpleentaIonI of critW  polcy, histitutonal" and opeatona refom
which aim at imprving th efficncy, effectiveness, and qualiy of the
deiver of CCSS heath care srv    and upgraing the quality control
and surveillance system in the health sector. This would be
accomplished by:
(a)   Assidg the CCSS   imle       g isiond  reforms at the
cenr level and in stghening the support systems and the
decentoIi_ao wprocess wlich would !avolve to the reios and
natonal hospias the          and opertion of heakh sevices;
(b)   Supporting the impmenta    of a redefined model of pimary
hea  car servies which would be based on natonal priority heat
care progrms and, at the same time, be responsive to regiona and
local         cl citions;
(c)   St       g  the CCSS fincia comIple  by improving the
resource           allocation and evalution sysm, reducing
evaons, Increasmn contruory cnt  of socia seuty prmim,
and pilot tesg of alternative models of health care finaing and
hospital            with the  pectation of w     implemeo;
and
(d)   Designing and impleeaning feasibility studies for the
deveWment of a Natol Surveillance and Qualiy Contol
Laboratory.
Po3jet Descri   The proposed prlject is focused on te CCSS. It would consttute the
fis Bank ledig        t to the hath sector in Costa Rica  t



-vi-
would complwmt (i) the rCtuIIng of the Miy of Health
(Mo) to enhance it capabity to dct polies and  guaont, in the
hat sctor and (I) mpvemets ir the  fe which an to
be finand by exstig loans frol the    rA       Delopnt
Bak (IDE) and the Ceral Amaican Bank for Economic ntation
(CABEK, respectively. This poject would asist the CCSS haft
srvc  reform progam and accomplsh the above-stated objectves
through the following componet:
(a)   ZSS  1      1  R¢fom aad  uam_(US$9.1 millon
Iuding des). This key comp                for successl project
implementation woud enable CCSS to assume full    Knsl   for the
deley of curae ad prev e halt seve usng it own
finaclte as well as contractn with other providers. Ift woul have fth
following   s      :   Strengthening te CCSS  r       ;
Managem-It lIformation System; Human Resources Develoment and
Manpower Plning; and Ph            and Me"  Su            Systm
and Ratonal Use of Medic . The project would supat a
realnment of th CCSS to ensure greater tsaecy in the use of
resources by sing tbe   inisttion of health cae p   sion,
pension, and fncial m    ent and by declizi   aaem
and operatina, rormig and budgtin functio  to the regional
leveL Under this compone, the pject would finance thical
assistance, studies, tining, smars, equipment, and civil works to
rehaiiate central warehouse and weetd stone facilities;
Ob    R    _dx  E _ Helth CMr Model. QOaty Assu ance   d
HQ"  &I*  (US$17.0 millio including coningencies). Ths
compont would establish a comprehensive pimary health ce model
which would allow dte CCSS to asume allr          for the
provisn of publc pimy health ce ser , which would be
tnsfered from the MOH. Ingrated heat care delivy pacages
would be introduced, including ce   peventive and curative
caue to children, adolescents, women and familics. Feaure of this
new model include continuity of service provids (partcuarly of
mily doctors), eidemi olorial suveillance, delegation by CCSS of
decision-mang and budget control functions to the reis,
duio of inentives to enforce refms, encouragement of
suort fm   community oranizations and local users, and the
renderng  f more efficient services at lower levels. The component
would require the formal estab t of 74 healh ateas and
deinadton of about 700 basic health teams for prsion of
com phenivmde pimary health care. Each area would include various
types of eistng health fces from health posts to   s    to cover
the fll rage of seices from pima  to trtiay levels of care. Other
sub-componeats would be (i) the development of a Quality Assuance
system for evalution of primary care and (ii) a study of the secondary
and teriay lees of care. The project would finance the taser of



-vil-
healt peronl from the MOE to the CCSS, incementld opating
costs, udie, Uve, and tecnical assiance;
(c) Raw             _           E  loW  at Armde 
Cam EWaa     M(S$2.3 million incbldig contngencies).  is
component would help inase  efncy by modifig the cuet
fnncial         n  nd evaNuatio systems, raise resource
by rducing evasion, and expl, through pflot testg,
aerative finacng MOdels to impre the allcadon, truaer, atd
di ta of rsurc  to the pimary, secondary, and tetary
level. The project would fina   the cost of carrying out the plot
schemes, incding  nm     operating mm, technical assisance,
and studies; and
(d)   Nalnal Himk.hl! Jialco and QOait Control labo
(US$1.2 milliof including     i. Iis componeL would
sppo t a feasibility stidy on the reaignment of the functi  and
a on of INCIENSA into an insttion for national health
suvellance and quality control whin a reformed health system.
Financing under the project would iclude thal assistance for the
study and          of lboratories.
Prject            A Enjc g           Uninit  (PCU) (US$2.4 million including
A       dw   0 estil gencies), which would report to the Execudve Predent of the
CCSS, would oversee project imlementation It would also m e
studies, surveys, and tchnical assitnce, and undert   monitoing
and evalu   of th project.
Dood_ft and Risks Benfits. By uqpprtg  critcal policy and institutional reforms and
redeining the primary heal cae delivery system, the project would
hel improve the effidiency of resource use and mobilizaon, enhance
the qualt of services, ad steng    the capacity of the system to
respond more effectively to the emergng healh needs of the
The pilot altative health care models wold encourage
development of the pvae sector and  cre complemenity
between public and prte ploviders. Improving the effiency and
quaty of an integrdted heath services netwoIk with strong preventive
healt programs would help the CCSS become mc'reas ngly esponse
to chnge in the    lo cal ondns and contiute to reducing
motality and moibkdiy from chrnnic diseases and inuries. Further,
improved resource mobiliztion and resource allocation would lead to
net savings that could be used to expand health services among the
indigent populon and help ensure the future financial stabilt of the
CCSS.
The main ribs are the reform' complexity and long-term horizon,
with fill innlementation taking place after a new govenment is
installed; the failure to make difficult decisions involved in modifying
the functions and          of the Financial   ement Comple



-vi -
to       additiomi esus, I  me dffeny, and devolvw CCSS
fia9e to the rgonal le; and lstly, a lk of  xpeln  in
Bank-fuded pojects. aos of dte  risk  av been
(and wil contne to be) atnuatad by the Bank's cloe iavolvemt in
the formuladon of the refoms and the sagig s of smia  wit 
lee officials and           fmm vxuiPA            Paz" to
diss the proje   F, the system's cuent finaci
nabilty and             would be exacebad If the proposed
rfoms         iplemee d. The ik would also be mnimized by
the Bnk's cdose         at the difr  9sae of ptoec
implenttin innsttution of a mid-te review by th Govnnimn
and the BakL and techaic _ n to assist in  plmna
including taining, paiculaly for managers who bavo the sk of
-nis          the refoms.
l Categoy C. The proect would include a study and teic
Catqs_ry          assian  to fnd solto  for safe diposal of chemical and
phainaceutlcal wastes.
program Objectie Progam of Tagetd bnvenio. A poect bctive rbvat to
Categori.         povety allevion Is the imnovemm  of resource m  ion ad the
commitment to wue inheas  revees to improve ad expand heat
seice for th indget and poor populatin



Locad Foreig Total
-US$ milliom-
InsdtItuonal1v Stent                            4.3    4.4    8.7
RPdeined Realh Car Model                       11.1    4.7   15.8
Finci Ma          & Pilot Testing               1.5    0.7    2.2
Quit Conrol Laboratory                          0.9    0.2    1.1
Projec:t Adminbstation                          1.9    0.4    2.3
TotalBaseine Costs                    19.7   10.4   30.1
Physical Contingencies                          0.4    0.3    0.7
Pric Condigcies                                 0.9    0.3    1.2
Tot Project Costs                    LLQ
Finandug Plan
Loal Foreig   Total
-US$ minion-
Govenment                             10.0    -      10.0
IBRD                                  11.0   11.0   22.0
TotalFinancing                                       a
Fsdatend D_dmrsuments Timstable
mm  Fscal Year
19S   3996   1997   198
Anmal                          4.0bW   6.0    7.0    5.0
Cumulaive                      4.0   10.0   17.0   22.0
V    Ilcludg taxes of appmatly US$1.4 miion.
h/   Includes Special Account deposit of US$1.2 mmion. Retoactive financing of up to
US$1.0 miion would be avalable for eligible e es incued afer June 1,
1993.



BASIC DATA SE:IK
INDICATOR                             COgrA RICA  YEA
Coury and Inoome Data
Area (000 sq. kWn)                                            51.0    1988
Popdlation Density (pop. per sq. km)                           9.0    1990
GNP per canita (USS)                                        1940.0    1990
Poverty Rtt (percent of population.)                          25n      1988
Urban                                                  21.0    1988
Rund,                                                  28.0    1988
Popuation I'imtoa 
Poplation (millions)                                           3.1    1991
of which urban (eet)                                   47.0    1990
Pop"laion gmwth riab (pet)                                     2.4    1990
Population 15-64 yrs (percent)                                59.6    1990
Crude binth rate (ect)                                        25.5    1990
Crtud death Mate prcen)                                        4.0    1990
Uf expectan  at birth (yers)                                  73.0    1988
healt Cm  bdkntow
Populaon per physicin                                       1120.0    1991
Population pe nurse                                         2080.0    1991
Hospital beds per 1,000 population                             2.1    1991
Iminunztion, (under 1 yr): Meades (percn of age group)        90.0    1990
DPT (pert of ag grop)                 95.0    1990
Total Heth Expenditurs as pewt of GDP                          8.0    1990
Heath expenditures as percent of goveent speg                 23.2    1990
Rpodutve Helth
Share of women who are of chbld beain ag                      S2.0    1990
Fortlity rato firts per womn)                                  3.0    1990
Cotaceptive prvaleno (sA   of females 1S49)                   68.0    1986.
hifant mortaity rate (per 1,000 birs)                         1S.3    1990
Mtenal morbtlity rate (per 10,000 populao)                     2.G    1990
Birs attended by pofbsdaoal staff (percent)                   93.0    1985
Nutrition fidicatora
Low birthweight iDnts  rcent)                                  9.0    1985
Malnurished childn under S yrs of age (percent)                2.1    1990
Daiy caloe inake                                            2808.0    1989
Eu~mW H _h
Access to safe wat (percent of population)                    93.0    1990
Urban                                                  99.0    1990
Rumd                                                   83.0    1990
Acces to sanitation (perent of populaton)                     98.0    1990
Urban                                                  99.0    1990
Rua                                                    95.0    1990
EduA_tion
Adult illiteracy  wcent of popation)                           7.3    1990
PrHmy earoment (peent of populaison)                         100.0    1989
Share of government expeditures on educatio                   19.0    1990



COSTA RICA
HRALS SECIOR EORM  -
SOCAL SECURT SYSTEM PROJECT
STAr 3PPPRAUAL REPORT
L BACKGROUND
1.1. With per capita income of US$1,940, Costa Rica is at the h4gher end of lower-income
countries, yet many of the key Indcats of socia welDng ate smila to thowse of middle-
icome countries (Annex 2, Graph 1). ThI I, to a lare extent, a one c of Weval
decades of stable democratic gov  s and exteive socal proams (paticularly
primary and secondary educaton, healh and wcial seuiy). Accordg to a reent Bank
report,'l the impact of these policies was highly progressive: in the health sector, for
examp:, the conutun of heakh prog_ms Is es_imated to have incased the real income
of the poorest 10 percet of the populin by 66 percent in wub areas and by 78 percent in
rmal areas.    ugh a recessioy env         in the eary 1980s and implementAtion of a
series of Bank-S ted 8stuc       adjustment programs that followed tended to slow the
pac of povert reduction, the national inidence of poverty sdll declnd, from 25 percent in
1980 to 20 pecet in 1990. Nevertheless, the Government realized that, to maintain these
significant advantages in soi conditns  wibin a slower growth env    bred  by
growing public sector deficits and incsed demand for secs, it was essential to re-
examin the financing and efficiency of all social sector progrms.
1.2.  Since 1982, Costa Rica has re d  its devement sy   fm import
subsution to an outward-oriented economic grwth. The preset Govem t which came
to office in 1990, is aware that while important progess has been achieved since 1982, the
reforms initiated must be carried on fuwther an consolidated so that they can prvide a solid
base for sustained and equitable development into the next centr. Toward this goal, the
cue  Govemment develoment stategy focuses on: (a) accel          integration into the
world economy; (b) straaning the public sector to impve its efficiency, stengt  its
final base and reorient it away from actvities that can be caried out more efficiently by
the privae sector, (c) improving efficiency and competio in labor, financial and capital
markets; (d) improving infra e and             private sector investment to accelerate
growth and diversify the economy's exo base; (e) cdan n socia snding and
progms to toe in greatest need, while improving covage and efficiency; and (f)
-           naumi resources.
1.3.  Thre is consensus withn the Govemment that the heat system, which has been
under the dual    osbi       of the Misy of Healh (MOB) and the Costa Rican Social
Security System (Caja CoMense de Segur Sodal, CCSS), faces serious clngs  as a
reut  of increases in the demand for more complex medical care, limits on rvenue, and
sang costs. These are compo d by the cuent d         on of qualty in the
provision of health services, partly due to budget cuts and decng reveues during the
peiod of econmic cisis.
1, Coft Rica - Public Sedto Sociald 9 , Repot No. 8519-CR, Wodd Bak 1990.



-2-
1.4.  As part of ita long-term segc view of pubHic sector rform, the Govment has
made a fimn  commItment to impwve the dfficiency, efctivees, and quity of health
services, as well as to ince   covemge to the under-sved non-insured groups, within the
constaints of avilable public resourcs. The priciples undedying tis polcy are staed in a
rport pubHshed in March, 1993 by the Pesidency of the Republic joindy with the Ministry
of Planing and EcoBnic Policy and the MOH, entitled Naon  Pan of &OM of the
Hea   Sector -Baic Outline bTis reform plan was appoved by the Councfl of
Miniss in March, 1993 (the Policy Ltter pesented in Amnex 1 descibes the main faure
of the reform plan who  Impleention wi be s ed under the proposed poet; see
also pa. 2.18). The basic pricles of the reform of the health sector ae built upon the
polcy of hising  fficincy and prductivity of svie, em dup             s,
zing admWm n increasing p         i  of t  private sector,       ving
sector manag      ad flnancial caacity. The plan aims at increasing quality in heat care
provision through the implementation of a redeind model of health care    as into
account the changing epidemiological proffle and a growing demand for qualy services.
The plan also includes the development of altenative modds of health care pwvision and
financing, stes the need to facilite the contracting of private groups (such as coo es
and private prfesonal groups) to unrake service prviion, and emphasizes the need to
establish regulion and qualiy control of sc  provided through thisd paties. As the
basic frmework to cary out these refms, the plan redeins the respecte rles of the
MOH and the CCSS as follows: (a) the MOH would assume a lship role in deining
policy, setting prirty prognms, and montoing and evaluating resource use in the health
sector, and (b) the CCSS would be restructured to assme the role of principal health care
prvider. This wil enti a fndeal  o ioe    these entities and the shifting of
many of the MOH's resources and functdons to the CCSS (pua. 2.18).
1.5.  Reform in the Miisty of Health. The InerAmerian Development Bank (IDB) has
already apprved a  an ("Health Sector Reform - Steng  ng of the Ministry of Health
and Impl ving of Heah Services') of US$42 mmion equivalet (La"ns Nos. 711/OC-CR
and 712/OC-C   Febuary, 1993)2' to support MOH's reform to asme its new role. The
IDB loan would upport the folowng spocific objectives: (a) deign and implement refms
so that the MOB can assume a leadehip role in settig sector policies, prority progmms,
and reulatoy noIms and pocedures, while eimiating dupcaton of sevc  within the
public sector, (b) tansfer primary health care programs to the CCSS to incrase sector
dfcienq; swd (c) reduce  equities in health service provision by st, gtening coverage
and technical capacity in lower-income areas. The IlB loan has two main components: (a)
organizatin  reform of MOH, inuding (i) revison of        l     ctt and sffing
pfie, (u) tAnig, and (iii) setting Up a new Mangem  Infrao  System (MS); and
(b) itegration of heah series pvisi, incdng sport for (i) hbatn,
substution, and tr   of health posts and cents and staff to CCSS, (ii) improvements in
the hospitoal syem, inclui  replacemet of a regional hospitl in Alajuela damaged during
1 PlAw Acdma de Al&= Ad Sedw Sakd - L&mdiem  Fwzdamenawll'c P'idesda de la RepUllc,
MiAio  de Pkw*¶acMn Nadonday Poltka Ehwa6adoz - MiniteFo de Sal, Mazo, 1993.
t lMIDB proct is financd wough vo separete loanem , ne ndor rear lert and the oter a wsoft
loa with low inteaL For pauposos of simplicity, te loanos will be collectively refeed to in this Staff Appraisl
Repot as teo IDB lalon.



-3 -
the 1985 earthqake, and (fll) financil iniprvew ent of the CCSS thmough a plan to reduce
the Central Goverment debt to the CCSS.
1.6.  Rform In the CCSS. Th proposed Bank-fiaced project would help: (a) the
instittoal retU cting of the CCSS; (b) bring Into dsae focus the Govement's lont
term vision for the sector through the estlish and rinement of the healh care system
(e.g., redefined primaty health care mode, Quality Asuance, alenative financing and
proviso of health car models, and enhanced private sector patc ); and (c) prvide
the         insituy tinal st thening to bring about immdiate improvements in both
and provision of health servces. This process will include, biter alla,
n gpauft the adminIstraton of the healt care provision, peion, and financial
management functions to improve tan   y in the use of resourtces decenatalizig the
CC$$       n       of services and financial and tecnical fnioDs to the regional level to
promote increased efficiency and qualiy (para. 4.6(c)), and the review and development of
alernatv models of care and financing, such as the  ntacting of services to cooperatives
or heakh professionas(p . 4.23-4.24). This new stcre would also require new
regbins to ensre qualiy control of health services, pardculay those to be prvided
through thi  prdes (pas. 4.24-4.25).
IL SECTOOR ISSUES AND GOVERNNMNT STRATEGY
2.1.  For several decades the Costa .Rican halt system has bee a model in healt caue
provio quality and efficency. In recent years, however, a number of iic s have
arisen in the health care utHzaton patterns due to distortions in both te demand and supy
for healh services. On the dman sie, both cnomic and demogrphic fors, combined
with a lack of enforcement of pate  flows among levels of care, have resuled in huge
.ases in the demand for services and over-crowding at higher level facilities. On the
sWply side, dupLcation of src  i the publc sector, inefficient allocation of physca,
fiancial and manpower resources, and infic s in the pharmaceutical and medical
supples subsector have led to a notable det aion in the quality of health care. The
Government is cureny focsing on the need for coections.
A. Demand lues
2.2.  Diotions in the demand for pubLic health services can be clasified mainly into the
folowing two categories: (a) access, manifested simut ly by (i) overuse (and
overcrwding at higher level facilies), (ii) non-insured beneficiary popuation, and (ili)
deficient verg of the indigent; and (b) changing epidemiologcal profile, with a primary
health care model which does not adequately meet the needs of an aging popuaion.
2.3.  Accem. Issues reated to patients' access to public health services include:
(a) Crisis m the OuSystem. Because public heah services are provided
essentially free of charge to most paients, there is no detrent to overuse, leading to
rowding. Visits also tend to be cOn td    higher-level facilties in the
cenral region due to the lack of an adequawe referal system and the pereption that
lowerlvel fctes do not have sfficient resorces such as drugp and medical



-4-
supples. Asa           ,ite ouate  cato systemn 1 at a cdsis.   is not
unusu  for patents to be tned away without being se or to be adsed to come
back anothr day; those who can afford it seek can frm a private practice. Even the
simple delivety of a pescrbed mediato can mean i significant investment of
patient time: a fourho wit is not unusu, and in some cas the patient b  to
roeu  the following day to obtain the dug. The fiur to develop a mmre explicit
menibm  for alocating sevc  imposs impliit ioing  rugh mechanims
such as infece peddling or a market for positions in th queue; these practices
adversly affect the equity objectives of the delivery system, since it i the poor who
are left without altaives. Under the rdefined pimary health care model (pam.
4.13-4.17 an Annex 5), specIfic acdons would be undeftaken to improv thie quaty
and dficieny of the ouwient system by introducing a Qualit Assurance program to
detect overmse and take corrective actions, applying sound means tests and enfong
referals;
(b)   Oen g of Amme  e                   In recet years, emergncy services in
hospitas hve become flooded with cases that shod be ted at the clncs. Net of
populaion  gwth, the umber of emency vits jumped 54 percent between 1985
and 1990 (Annex 2, Graph 2). Geonea medical visits fell 17 percent over the same
period,         that the queuing problm is gettg wor. This problm reached
vitally              proporon  at the sub-hospital lve where Type 4 clinies
(clinics of the highest complexity in the system) experienced an increase of over 800
percent in emergency visits. Part of this phenomen  is rlated to the decline in
gena           ,   as careput off in eady stas of anl inss will often lead t a
more urgent need as disease conditin wore. Besides insing congestio in
emereny faities, which ha poteta life-threatening coences, this practice
sinficny inres  the costs of providing services. The currnt system lach
explicit mechanisms to ration s ; waitng dme thereore becomes the defacto
raiong mechm. Ihe proosed Mect would address in a cm e
manner the delivery of health care services through the redefined primawy bealth care
model, Quality Assurance progrm, and Hopial Study (paras. 4.13-4.17);
(c)   Noninued Belndw0i 9dmP   Even though the Govement decided in
the 1980s to make CCSS ealth service available to the ingt  population, no
appropiate means tests were deloped. Mm health care system is unable to
distinguish between the poor, the inred, and noinsured; a conseraive estimate is
that the CCSS provides unlimited serices to nearly 15 percent of the ppulation
without their having conctrted their reqired share to the plan.4 At the same
time, a number of servie are provided in CCSS hoptas and clinics to tourists and
other non-contributos which reflect neither upply (i.e., their cost) nor demand (i.e.,
consumers' willins to pay). The proposed project would help the CCSS assert
better control and moioring of its beneiay populton through insutional reform
and strengthenng in the CCSS (pam. 4.6), a new MIS (pam. 4.8), and studies to
imprve resource     _     and aion         s. 4.19-4.20); it would also redress
tl A nw rgrty of CS  insmd poplon has rendy bee compldad id ;ntficatm cardsuwil be isued
shady. Rower, th comko of insurd ht wi ony be possible when th new IllS to be impmntd under
h proet (pam. 4.8 and bot   16) Is in plc.



the dispary betwoe  unit costs and amounts biled through a study to develop an
appropriate unit cost methodology (pa. 4.25); and
(d)    I    nuffim gMgv o f the og. The MOH has been mainly resonsible for
bealh services in uml ueas, in which about 71 perct of the population are poor.
Howeve, a lak of adequate resources bas limited the success of the MOH in meeting
the goals. Overall, abut 17 pecent of the popul , mostly the indgt,
cum y r         uncoverd. T   project would help the Goverment close this gap
throgh rising defiency (pa. 4.14 - 4.17), conducing studies for improved
resource  mobilizton (pan. 4.20), and better maning of its debt to the CCSS (pa.
2.14).
2.4.  Changg Ep oi               Pof. Te gains i health status and mortality rate
(table below) have conibted to a rapidly aging pouti  (Annex 2, Graph 3) for wbich
the curenm pdmay health cae model is not well sied. . Wile the burden o communicable
diseases has been reduced, a bulging adul population is begnning to suffer from a differe
set Of a    us-accidentsand chroic conditions.1i For emple, between 1970 and 1980,
infectous diseases decHned from de most to the seventh most prvalet cause of death,
while cudiovascular diseases moved to the fis place, with a 28 percent shae of all deaths
(Anmex 2, Graph 3); in 1985, the number of hopi nizatios due to ischemic heart disease'
rose to 1.8 percent of all hospitalins, a 60 perent increase since 1980. Health risks
have now been shifted sowly up the age scale: in the age group 15-19 years, tlere are
increased problems of eady ad high-risk pregnancy, abortion, and low bhrthwfa   (Anex
2, Table 1). Furter, seal  ransmid diseass and problems assciated with the use of
alcohol, drwgs, and tobacco now  present major heal problems facing adolescents.
Costa Rica: leslth & Nutrio  Indicators (per thouand)
____              ~~~~1960-1990                      _     _
_Ihtt Moaly      Neonatal     Incidee Of                   Overal Death
ye R_    _mit RaeM                                     Childrns < S     Rafte
1960          76.0           22.3           N/A            13.2         10.0
1965          75.0           19.8           N/A            N/A           9.0
1970          63.0           19.3          270.3           12.0          7.0
1975          37.9           18.1           38.2           N/A           4.9
980           19.1           11.2           44.5           8.0           4.1
19B_          17.7           11.7            .03           2.7           4.0
1990          15.3            9.1           N/A            2.1           3.8
2.5.  There are also geographical disparities. In urban area, where changes in the disease
patt   are more pronouned and new health concrs are widely prevalent, health srvices
lbis progressio fmm a hig lnoidm  of infectio= and paasitic diseass to a prvalence of non-communicable
diseae is often calledoth epi doglal ition (Omran 1971). Conbined with demoghic changes which
often acoompaW tho epidological cn,      tnidton is often referred to as the h     transWonL
if H}A and cormy artesy _ondios leadn to depdvation of blood to the hert



-6 -
have not yet adjusted their clis' pxtools, pvtve programs, ad the beat staff mix
This is in contra   to the poor cantons (counties) and among the udev    popun,
wher infectious diseases, frequent pregacies and maternal mordit are still commonplace
as causes of Iess and death. For example, the  uetar Alntica region has an ovel death
rate of 11.4 per 1,000 popuation while the poore canton in this region has 40 deats per
1,000, wile some of the high-inome cantoms have death ratez below 1 per 1,000 (Annex 2,
Graph 5). The evident need for better regioal and loc al --               ofd m   g
heath svices woud be udnessed  er the project directly by the redend primary health
car model (pan. 4.14), which would be more responsive to local social and epidemiologcal
conditions, and lndirety by the creatin of a Natonal Helth Surveillance and Qualiy
Control Lab ory (pam 4.26), which would monitor epidemologl    ess and
biological, chemical, envhmeal and psycho-cidal risk factors.
B. Supply Isu
2.6.  Distartions in the supply of public healh servces can be taced to the folbwing: (a)
dupliaton of services between MOH and CCSS (even while some areas rmain under-
served); (b) deficiencies in the mgement of human resources; and (c) inefficiecies in the
phnning and pc         of phar ecal and medial supplies.
2.7.  D          Between MOB and CCSS. Currtly, about 84 percent of health
services a  publicly provided (75 percent by CCSS and 9 percent by MOH), with the
remainder dispensed by a small but growing privaWe sector. After trnferring all its
hospitls to the CCSS over the period 1973-1977, the MOH has contied to be rsponsible
for the delivery of preventive and basic health care. The CCSS  curative and high
complexity heal care and provides primar health care and iness and maernity
com_ tnsatio to the insured and indige  popuatons tough its Sicks and Maenity
Benefits program (SWM); it maintains and operates the nation's hospta and an extensve
network of clinics. The economic crisis of the 1980s imposed evere limitons on fiscal
revenues, tightenig the resources available to the MOH and compeng an expansion in the
role of the CCSS to render services to marginal ural and ura poplations (a detailed
ovrvew of the health serices is prsented in Anex 3). The division of    i es
between the MOH and the CCSS has not, however, been entirely fficient While effots to
reduce duplcation by making MOH and CCSS units operaing in the same areas she
facl  have crated savings in          and maintenance costs, there are still
duplications of peonnel as wel as separate regonal supervision,   ee   and budget
systems. This nt olly duplicates admi e cost, but also complicates the cnat
of sectr activities. The Govement's Health Sector Rerm plan carrie the divion of
labor in the sector between the MOH and CCSS further by specfying the exact roles each.
instiuon will asume and forms the fiamework for the already approved IlB loan and the
proposed project (pans. 1.5-1.6). Under the project, the CCSS would assume all
respnsWiblties for the provison of publc health cae seces in concert with the phased
implemetat  of the proJect's redefined primary health care model (paIas. ?.18 and 4.14)
and with a gradual tfans- of MOH pesonel and facities (once these are rehabit
under the 1DB project) to the CCSS (pam 4.15).
2.8.  To complement the public provision of health svices, the Government would
encourage the deveopmet of the private sector, which has see modest growth in the las



-7-
few yes (from 12.5 to 16 prct of the tota heth h ar maret), maidy due to inased
dbAq-      of patns with the public system (Annex 3). At the same dme, under the
MDB loan, the Govemeat is cumrey reving the Ley Gemul de Salud, the Ley Orgnwd
dd Mblneit, ad several de s ad Lete  of Ageemet (Convemos) to reorane the
MOE and streughen its nomative, ngultoy, and control fnctions to allow for the
developmnt of an acceto   system.  h% projet would conduct sudies to review
exisg   alernative modes of health cae providon, at,  and finaning
(coopeaves, ne"dna ndma, lIbre ekecdn and meca de empraa), incling  isting
pivate providen and, based on this review, design and carry out pilots which would explore,
otwr aUia, the cotwting of various tp  of services tD the private sector (pwas. 4.24-
4.25). Co     ly,by separating wihin the CCSS the  I        of its pensions,
health care delivery, and firncial mgeme systems (paras. 4.6-4.7), the prject would in
the long-term pave the way for an eventual separtion between the financing and delivery of
healft care srice to aceve complete tr      in tie use of resources.
2.9.  Manage        of HuMISu Resoures. Costa Rica has one of the highest ratios of
physician per capia in Latin America at 1.04 per 1,000 populion, surpassed only by
Argetin, Unrguay, Venela, and Ecuador (Amex 2, Table 2). Nonetheless, national
manpower dat on the public health system, which employs 80 pernt of ttal heath
peomel, rveal problems regatding: (a) unev  distbn, both g aphically and
among levels; (b) unbaanced healh staff mix; mnd (c) shorter work hours than agreed in
their employment contcs.
(a)   UbvN= Dk vdm  While the Centra region has 36 percent of the
populat, it ha about 80 pecen of doctors, nurses, phamaist, laboatoy
profsionals and dentists, mainly becue all the national hospit and most of the
speciae clinics are concentrated in this region (Annex 3, Table 3). There is
congestion at higher level facilt, where most people go for media car, because
the cliics and centers of lss complexity oftn lack medical and nursing staff and
becuse of an inefficient referal system. Disbutio among levels of care would be
addressed under the project though the redefined primary health care model (paras.
4.14-4.15 and Annex 5), which would rview ceinic protocols, clearly define the
funcions and sdaffing needs for doctors and nurses at all levels, and establish a
reeral and supvision system to decrease congesion problems. Under this model,
the issue of geographic distbution of resources would be addressed, and more
coe  steps are expected to be proposed once the alenative models of health care
financing and dmini in and the redeed pry health care model itself have
been pilot tested and exanded;
(b)   U uced LHeaMh Staff Mix. The country curreny suffers from a serious
shorge of murses, with doctors often performing asthat could be canried out much
more efficieny and at lower cost by mrses or auxiaries. The nurse-to-physician
ratio is less than one (there are far fewer nurses than doctors), which is the opposie
of a generly desirable ratio of two to tree (Annex 3, Table 3). Reasons for this are
the srngent admission and graduation rieme  and long duration of nursig
studies, and rlatively low salaries as compared to those of physicians; many nurses
also emigrast to deveoped countr-s in search of betr pay and employment



-8-
opportunitlesY The proect would paray address this issue by chbging the clinic
protocol in the provision of primary health care and by training apomaly425
addional axiliary staff who would delver promotional activities under the
supervision of health professionals  a. 4.1S)M.n the long-tbenm the Goeinment s
exploring with the Universi  of Costa Rica the possiblity of intoducng w
programs to increse the number of auxiliary ad nrsing taff and to introduce
changes in the Medical School curicula to adju  it to the new demands of health
provision in the country (pam. 2.21(b)); and
(c)   So Wa  HoursM ay physicians actually work two to four hours each
day, desite holding fill-time positions, spending the rest of tfme on their own part-
time private pctice, often while using pubLic faciites; this rels in an inflated
account of physicims' availability, which in turn disto planning of faiities'
workdoad and begets overcrowded service. Ilere is a simila problm reating to
absentism  of nurses due mainly to liberal work contas: at any given time, 40
percen of the nuring saff in CCSS  8fti is absent for various reasons (leave,
scholarships, vacation, etc.). The project would address this iue though: (i)
restructing of the CCSS Intgmted Heath Cae Complex, which would give gree
r-sponsbility to the regions and naional hospital diretors in staff m emt and
supervon (pam  4.6); (ii) the hospital swork study (pams. 4.17), which would
identify ars for personnel a ion  and other improvements; and (iii) the
redefined primary heat care model (paras. 4.14-4.15), which would   onalize the
staff mix in both comosito  and geogap     disb   .
2.10. P.        1' 't anMedMkalSuppllu. Theplanningand procuement of
pharmacuticals and medical supplies often lads to shortg  and overstocing of drugs
while comprmising the quality of senrice delivery. A 1992 examinton of drug and supply
distribution showed that of all drugs and supplies inventoried, 18 pere  were out of stock.
While the sort   was only six percent of drugs, one-third of surical splies and over 20
percent of cuative meical supplies were not avilable. At the same time, 47 percent of the
3,790 products in the Cental Warehouse were stocked at levels sufficient for more than a
year at average consumpion rates, resultng in the unnecesary renl of addtonal storage
space at $30,000 per month.
2.11. Among the systemic problems leading to the exwa costs and out-of-stock conditions
are the lack of a fiuntional selection process for medico-sg    supplies, an overly
centalzed adjudication process that slows proement, and an iflexible inventory process
based on the previous years utilizaion, which provides itle inceive for efficiency,
improvements in dmg alocation (the CCSS began to codsult the regions, hopital and clinics
for planning putposes in 1991, but this process still r2eeds impovemet).In addition, there
is lttle incentive for clinics and hoitals to prescibe generic drugs or a less costly
altemative drug, since that may reduce inventory and resources for the following year.
There is also litte control over the use of inventoies since physicans can use their faciLity's
equipment and supplies for their private patns   without rmbursing the facilty for their
21 According to tde Wotld Development Report 193, the Costa Ric  ituation is not unique. Neadly an countries
fce the same fundamtal problem with the human moures mix in the health sector: tbere are not ,umgh
pimary health care providers and, among doctors, too many spocualis.



-9.
costs. Shorages of dug and los   hougb spoige, th,  or excessive presbing also
impose a high cost on the system.
2.12. A significant effect of these problems is that the lack of spples or dugs limits the
abiy of physicians to provide omprehnsve medical services, especiay in remote regios
or facHis. In the case of drugs, paients often resort to private parnacies; in fact, the
1987 private sector health study showed that 29 percet of household spending on private
health care went for drugs and medical supplies, or about US$30 million (studies in 1986 and
1987 found rough parity between public and private expends on dugs at about US$30
million each11). There is an equity issue here, too, as 20 percent of total private
phamaceutical and medixc   pplies in the country are bough by the poorest 40 percent of
households. These households are spending over 40 pent of their private health cae
expeitures on such items. While the prvate sector option is open for drugs, patns who
rely exclusively on the public sector must seek can elswhere if a particula center is out of
drugs and medical suppUes. Furthermore, oance a clinic is known to be short on suppies,
patns will bypass it for higher level f  which leds to overowding (pan. 2.3(a))
and implies a higher cost for the Govemment These issues would be adressed by the
project ftough a specific phmaceutical sub-component (pan. 4.12). In addition, a new
MIS (pa. 4.8) would be introduced under the project to improve control of inventories and
availability of inftion on drug surpluses or sota; fuftermore, the Quality
Assurance system (pan. 4.16) would provide specific indicats to measue the availability,
tmeliness, and use of drugs and medical supplies.
C. TinaM a              Imes
2.13. The Governent has btadtionay allocated sizeable resorces to finance the provision
of health care for all cidzens (7 to 10 percent of the GDP). Total heah care spending
(iclding the MOH, CCSS, Naional Insuance Institute (INS), and private sector) curny
stands at 8 percent of GDP, a level comparble to that of higher-income counties (Annex 2,
Graph 6). Total annual public expenditures are estmated at US$367 million, or US$120 per
capita. In addition, consumers spend yearly an estmaed 1.75 percent of GDP, or another
US$35 per capita, on private heakh expenditures.2 Epentrs are expected to continue
increasing due to rising personnel costs and higher costs of teatments of an aging population
with more chronc cons. Improvemens in sector fiancig would have to addess the
following issues: (a) shtage of revenues; (b) deficiencies in resource manent and
allocaon; and (c) organizaton of a management information system (MIS).
2.14. Shortage of Reveues. Henth-related revenues of CCSS, MOH, and INS are
generded by four major sources: (a) social security premiums (cotzadones) account for 72
percent of revenue; (b) centrl govenment expendiures, for 12.5 percent; (c) direct
payments from the sale of services in public and private faciities, for 5 percnt; and (d)
HE    Cme in the Amedca4s PanAican Halth Organization (PAHO), Vol. II, p. 106, 1990.
2 Th cambined public-pdvate ttal of US$155 per capita is higher than in Argsina (US$139), Mexdco (US$132),
and Chie (US$100) (Annex 2, Graph 6).



- 10-
Odtr hInome fmm in_t, tent, etc., for 10.5 percent (Annex 4, Figure 2).S  In 1982,
the CCSS rised social secuty pemiums by 40 percent to finance the increase in covage;
however, widespread evasion of social seuity contbutions and the failure of the
Govrnment to make mandated contribton for coveae of the indigent and through its role
as employer have led to serious shrtfalls in CC,SS revenues. It is projected that, were no
remdi actions to be aken, the CCSS would start accum g a dicit starting in 1998
(assuming cunt levels of revenus and expendiures), fieled oy a dramatic increase in the
benfay  population (Annex 4, Table 2).
(a)   SPfmium-EDyEions. Looples in the payroll tax system encoutage formal
sector workrs either to uestim   their  ags ar to not eport their income and
therefo  undeipay their preums. The CCSS estimates the level of evasion at
US$40 million yearly or about 14 percent of the CCSS' annual revenue. The CCSS'
lack of an effective mechanism to enforce contutios significantly decreases its
revemnes (Annex 4, Section B provides a detaied estimate of losses from vanous
sources). Under the prtoect: (i) an ageement between the CCSS and the Ministry of
Finane (MO) would be entered into to enable the echng of tax, socal secuty,
and income informaon for puiposes of premium coLlection; (ii) the CCSS MIS would
be redesigned and implem     (pa. 4.8); and (ii) studies would be conducted to
improve the economic incentives for affilatn and to rcommend improvements to
the proces of rporting earnings and collecting premiums (pas. 4.20(a)-(b) and
Annex 4, Section D);
(b)   GoveA m= UIndfrfammt. In recent years, the Govenmment failed to meet
the mandad levels of contributons for coverage of the indigent and though its role
as employer, leading to setious shortfalls in CCSS revenues. Government shortall
amounts to an estimated additional US$60 million per year, with an accumulated debt
of about US$141 mlion. The Government has committed to a plan to reduce the
debt and to ensure that future debt woud not be incurred. A Subsidiay
Agreement between the MOF and the CCSS to be presented to the Bank (para. 4.22)
will include a commitent from the Goverment to cancel the accumulated
Govermment debt of US$141 million from the following sources: (i) Government
bonds (scheduled to be iss    in September 1993), for US$68 million; (ii)
disbursement from approved eternal loans for the health sector, for a total of US$43
million; and (iii) biblteralssstan  to finance CCSS hospital equipment for US$30
million. The Goverment has also committd to cover the health care premiums for
the indigent thro"gh annual transers from the Fondo de Agnacones Famifiares to
IW Me CCSS geates 85 percent of all its revenues from cw*aciones collectd fwm all active and pensioned
s_aied worrs. For active workers, the premium consists of a 15 percent payroll tax on salary and wage earnings
paid to the SEM; this premium is divided amoog workers (5.5 percent), employer (9.25 percent), and the
Govemnet (0.25 pert). Resouroes to finance health care for pensoned wors, who are covered by the Old
Ag, Disability and Life urance Program (InmUdez, Veez y Muite, VWM, are genated from a 12.5 percent
tax an peson benefits. lis transfr from the pension progrm to the SEM to finance health care constitutes nearly
10 pact of IVM eeditues. lhe remaind of CCSS revenues iF collected from the sale of goods and services
(e.g., private svices), transfers fom the central Govemmentand national lotteries, and ther miscellaneous income
fom rent, ierest, etc.



- 11 -
the CCSS hel cae insuance fimd.WT                   proect would establish
new resource     eent  d financg mechanisms to help solve fftre deci
(paras. 2.3(c) and 4.22 and Anne 4), while enforcing the past debt payment through
a separate covena  (pa. 4.22) and thrugh annoua monitorig of conuibutons to
cover the indigen popuaion. The Govemment's stategy and appwpriate actions to
manage its obligations would be discussed duing the project's annual and mid-term
reviews (paias. 6.1 and 6.5 and Annex 11);
(c)   La   o f                MenC:on de nism. The sef-employed and workers in
the informal sector have no obhigatlon to make CCSS contibutions, in principle
paying out-of-pocket for servic s when received, in the same maumer as turists and
prive paons uing public fcilties. However, there is a need for developing
apprpia  means tesding and to disnguish between the poor, the inred and the
non-insured; a conservative estimate is dat the CCSS jrovides unmited services to
nearly 15 percent of the populati  without their having contibu  their required
shate to the plan. A new registry of CCSS insred popuaion has recendy been
completed and ideficaion cards wil be isswd shordy. However, full control of
insured cliets will only be possible when the new MIS to be implemend under the
project (pa. 4.S is in place; and
(d)   uaderes. The few idenfied non-insred paients, tourists, and other
non-contbutos are charged for servces. These cbarges (about 1.5 percent of the
CCSS income), however, do not rft  either supply (i.e., their cost) or demand
(i.e., consumers" wilingness to pay). Te project would help redre  the disparity
between unit costs and amounts billed through a study to develop an appropri e cost
methoology (pan. 4.25) and the formation of a speaied unit within the Financial
Management Complex for this purpose (paa. 4.6(d)). Addional, studs would be
conducted to assess the feasibility of cost-recovery meaes such as user fees and
deductibles (Annex 4, Section D), which would have the added benefi of addressing
th issue of overuse (pan. 2.3(a)).
2.15. Resource Manage        and Allocation. Curnt budgeta  ptces pve no
incentives to improve the overall efficiency of resource use. Resources are allocated
tughout the sector based on histical tends, with fittle responsiveness to the cbanging
demands of the populaon and a lack of financial ac bility on how the resources are
spent and whehr they meet the stated objectives of the national health policy. Then is a
need for changes in the budget system, making it responsive to programs with lear and
measurable objectives. This budget process has perpehuatd the over-emphasis within the
CCSS on curative care at higher-level facilites: in 1990 the CCSS allocated 56 percent of
public resources for health to the provision of curave services in its 29 hospitals, 42 perent
to render care in the outient clinics, and an additional 2 percen for progrmms in
odontology and medidna mfra. About 56 percet of expndiures finance salaries, while the
remaining 44 percent account for recurent expenditures in the clinics an hospitals, subdies
paid for sickness and burial benefits, and other transfers and payments. As for the MOH, 47
W For the fisca year 1994, the amount to be trnaud has been esimated at US$48 million.   oequmst
yeamu, determination of the amounts to be tansud woutd be made based an a methodology aceptable to the
Bak.u



-12 -
percn of all MOH expendi"tes ar allctd to nutrito programs, 12 pert to iual and
community health programs (which provide prevetve services such as immuniaios and
pednatal ca), and the rest to health promotion, educabon, envimeal sanitaon and
pidemolog   surveince. Th MOH alocaton is ovewhelmingly spent on salaries (81
percen of all program resources), while 7 percent was spent On matrs and suies and
12 perent on extion sevic  (Annex 4, Figure 2).
2.16. The project would correc inefficiencies in resource  ent and allocaton within
the CCSS thwugh seveal avenues: (a) a new budget process, expressed in tenms of
programs that are output-related, combined with a complem ay monitoring and evaluao
system, is already being implemented and would be stren d under the prwjectW (pam.
4.18); (b) senior and middle magment would receive tining to implement the reforms
under the project (pam. 4.10); (c) the redefined primary health care model would redeploy
resources (including facilties and personnel transfered from the MOH) according to an
optimized and vigorously enforced refral system that woud stretn lower-level
facilities; (d) studies to improve roure management and allocon and to eXplore
alteative aIminIstton and financing mecsms would be conducted (pan. 4.19); (c)
pilot pogrms using results of the stui wold be caried out (pam. 4.24-4.25); and (t) a
new MIS to allow for better contol and monitoring of resources would be implemented
(pam. 4.8). Budget allocations within the MOB wiU be reviewed under the IDB loan after
final decisions have been made by the Govenment on the type of progms dt would be
retained by the MOH and those tha would be tranfened to other mines, as would
possibly be the case with nutrition prog.ams.
2.17.         t nfo n System. Information on the flow of resources within the
health care system is curndy prvided by an accounting-bsed system caled am lQ
fg00, but this system does not provide adeWate capcity to combine, analyze, and
disseminate this Information. Long delays in the procsing of the information and frequent
coding ems preclude the use of the information for m ee  and planning puposes.
For example, the CCSS publishes an Anuario E#zdkco each year that contains a wealth of
informaton on trends in utilaion and costs, but the information is usually one to two years
old by the time it is publshed. The cutrent informaion system does not provide adequate
infonnation for planning of resource allocations (Pra. 2.15), colecdon of premims (pam.
2.14(a)), distinctio between the insured and non-insred (pan. 2.14(c)), and detenatio
of appriae  charges (pa. 2.14(d)). The project would finance the establishment of a new
MIS which would faciitate information flow witin and outside of the CCSS (i.e., allow for
exchange of data with the MOP, para. 4.20), and speed up policy and manaement decisions
within and between the CCSS depatments, services, and operational levels (am 4.20).
D. Governmet Sectoral Strategy
2.18. The Goverme's Health Sector Reform plan (para. 1.5) fonns the basis for the
already appoved IDB Loan and the proposed Bank-financed project. ITe Bank-financed
project would help: (a) bring into sharper focus the Government's long-term vision for the
sector  thugh institutional strengthening of the CCSS and the establishment and refinement
W Mhe CCSS was selected by the Govenment to implement the new budget process aS a pecmwor of the lsrger
public etr reform aleady agreed under SAL m discussions.



- 13 -
of the healt c   system (e.g., redeined primary health cae model, Qualt Assuwc,
alterave financing and           mo , pa   sector rgulaton); and (b) provide
the necesay institutional changes to briAg about immediate improvements i< both
management and provision of ealh services. The Govemuet's st_tegy is outined in its
Policy Letter for the health sector (Annex 1), wbich was furbed to th Bank prior to
Board prsaton (pa. 8.3). Goveramt actons wil focus on the 'upply and financial
manament I    s     ssed above and include:
(a)   Redefinit=on Of the a nizainal Pmmewofk of the MOM  and CCSS, to
assign new roles and functions to MOB and CCSS, giving to MOR the leading role in
health policy and norms, and to CCSS the full rsponsibility for public health service
provision. This pocess will furthe ensure tat MOH and CCSS fuly coordinate all
preventive programs, and inciudes tansfer of the admi o f work-related
insuance and medical care due to work-relatd accidents from the INS to the CCSS
or to a private third party. he Health Reform is based on Law 5349 (September 24,
1973), which transferred tie hospials from MOH to CCSS, and sevel Convenios
signed since then by the two oons; anoer Conveno will be required to
compleft the 'aser of MOH prmay healt care staff to CCSS (which is being
drafted undei the 1DB loan for the MOB) and would be a condion of effectiveness
under the project (pan. 4.15). In addition, the plan menions the need to improve the
CCSS informtion system, develop human resources, paicularly at the manageme
level, and improve personnel policies, adinistration, and incentives;
(b)   9Rgani9  of 1 CCSS tmeu  to separate the adminisration of health ca
provision, pensions, and financial m ent to ensure greater t y  in the
use of resources. The instona     c       of the CCSS would consist of three
major Complees: Integted Health Care, Pensions, and Financal Management.
The Government has already enacted the reforms regarding private pensions as agreed
under SAL m, which are consistent with the proposed reforms on the health care
system of the CCSS. As part of a government-wide program to delegate
adminisave and financial responsilties to the regional level, the CCSS, in
asuming responsbiity for all health care delivery, will s_tengthen regional offices by
devolving to them management, administative, and budgetay funcdons (pam. 4.6);
(c)   Th Rdefined Pia          i CrMd will address the need for reform in
the o          and technical approaches in the delivery of prmary health care
services thrugh the CCSS. TIs model includes com  ive preventive, cuaive,
and primary health care sevc  at the delivery point, proction of the family as the
uni of heah care, conDtnty of servics provision by individual doctors, improved
targeting of the poor, and active partcipation of the commu    in defining te
contents and assesing the quality of services provision. Application of this model
would require delegation of n, budgeting, and planing f-actions to the
seven regons, establist of 74 heat areas to be oped by 700 Basic Health
Teams, tansfer of MOH staff to the CCSS, training of staff, and implemeon of a
Quality Assuance system. Iplemenion would start in a pilot health area, Huetar
Norte, and be gradually expanded to other areas (pams. 4.14-4.16);



-14 -
(d)             "ote    'u         as a signfcantpautner In the deivery of
heat services though  ansdon of contactr with coopetves and pdvate
profssional groups as well as other arnemens as desied In paIns, 4.23-4.:5.
Curenty, legal consain  exis tat prevent the fail partIcIatIon of the ptivate
sector in the provision of health care; however, the Government is aware of thew
conts, and the project would fther anayze them duing the evauadon of
existng ta atve models and popose mechanisms to overcome them. ITe
paricipation of the private sector in the povison of health care and serv    is
epcted to be expaded under the project, intay duwgh the formaton of five
additonal coopratives, as alrady proposed by the Govnment in t  Healtb Socor
Reform plan, and further at a lawlr sae once the rsl of reviews and pilot tests of
alterave models of health cae financing and         mechanims are
available to be incorpod into the design of health cane povision (paras. 4.23-4.25
and Annex 4, Sections D, B, and F). Under the projet, progrs made toward the
devement and implem-ltation of adequate policy measu   and regulaons for the
prva  sector woud be reguary monited. As an gm gf dfaud. die Rank uld
not have ,wd6   by July 31    6. edee shwg dtt the RArrower has enacted
W&WO&n. and relon* dwMOe dpn      o            d « r    hmwr
hwtate mmto   Iadn th p&2AdM gf heihapr gmql
to t   a   and ht uch lgillo ad n=kulo are ain ih   o d ff
(pama 8.6(a)); and
(e)   Imving the           of      Fnu AJOcd   M                      to
stramln the budgetary process so that public        e based on priorities in
the sector (i.e., program budti  as agreed under SAL m and as started to be
adopbed by CCSS for the 1994 budget) and to modify the control, monitoring, and
evalation of public expenditues, including an improved methodology for
determination of unit costs which would consider both direct and indiect costs
involved in the delivery of mediad sevices to promote efficiency and adjust fees in
the hspital and  eialized clinics. The pla deines the need to improve the
resource mobilizaion of the CCSS, and pilot tstg  of albative health care
fig ad aminira     mechanisms (pars. 4.6-4.7, 4.18-4. 9 and 4.23-4.25
and Annex 4).
2.19. These policy objectves are in ine with the Government commie to deliver higb
quality he  servic  which are affordable and accessible to the entire populton.
Furhemore, they will allow the Goverment to repond to incased medial demand
rsuing from an expanded coverage of the poor, rig peonnel costs, use of
technologicaRy advanced equpment, icreases in the number of eldedy people, and shifts i
the epidiological profile from a higk prevalene of commniable diseases to chronic
condions and accidents.
2.20. The pension refoms agreed upon and already enacted under SAL m will complemen
reforms in the health sector by: (a) improving the actarial position of the CCSS; (b)
unifying all pension regimes under common rles regarding benefits and conttions; (c)
trInsfrIming the public peion systm from an endement pgram to a cpalizaion fund;
and (d) creatng a system of co       pvae pensions. These changes are an
impont step to ensure the ong-tem financial stability of the CCSS's SEM and IVM



- 15 -
programs. I add , sepaation oft dt  CCSS into spart complex  for Inertd Hath
Care, Pensi, and Financial   anemn under the proet (pm. 4.6) wouwd nre
in the          of rumrc  and help Incre  revenues, contain costs, and
eiminate cross-subsidies.
2.21. Long-Tom Jsues. The Govenment objecdves and polcies adopted for the heat
eor refotm would lead to a better alloton of resources in the sector and overl
improvemens in the effikiency of servie delivery. Using the resu  of studies a various
sages of the project. expeie gined duing implemenon, and disssmions with the
Bank during the mid-term and annual views (see pamas. 6.1 and 6.5 and Annex 11 for
terms of referee (ORs) of the annual and mid-term reviews), the Govenment would be
better able to address longer-tem ies such as:
(a)   Q         pi%MoW   of Hadt4          ad             The prsen
unven distibuon of heat failities and personel throughout the country (Par
2.9), wil take a long time to be filly corected. However, imp ion of the
redefned model of health care delivery (pas. 4.14-4.15) wil begin to provide some
answers thrugh the assgment of incrsed numbers of auxies who WM facilitate
the work of scarce nursing and medical peonn  in cerin areas and the availability
of mobile teams of healh professionals on a periodic basis, as well as the
implementation of an effective system for referral of patient to higher level 8faities.
Tbis issue wi also be addmssed through the testing and adopton of alternative
models of heath fiacing and ad(pans. 4.23-4.25); one sch model
would conit of oactig halth providers - e.g., coperaves - to delver heal
servic  and preventive programs in accordance with agreed protols, in localtes
bcking those servic. Me Govement b aware that new approaches are needed to
achieve a more even distrnition of health servicen, shying away from ceally
madated rebcain  of heakh perone l, a stategy that has proved inffective in
many other developing countries.
(b)   H       9a. Another issue tat should be addressed with a long-term
hoion is the imbale in the health staff mix - described in pan 2.9 (a). Ihe
Govemment recoes the need to take corrective action to increase the ratio of
nurses to physicms (stated in Policy letter, Annex 1, p. 11). In the short term,
redefinin of the primay health car model will help make some corcions,
particury  by incng more auxiliary peonnel in the Basic Halth Teams (forming
net - auxiliaries is a less complex task than increasig the number of gaduate nurss).
Over the long term, as stated in the Policy Loter, the Govenment will make its best
effors to intoduc new progmms in universties and other In us to increase the
nlumbers of nurse and auxiliaries.
lne above long-term issues are listed in Annex 12 -- a matrix linkng issues to project
compoets and secific actions -- and will form part of the on-going policy dialogue in the
heath soctor between the Bank and the Goverment of Costa Rica.



-16-
m. LESSONS LEARNED FROM EXPERiENCE, OTHER DONORS
AND BANK STRATEGY
A. Polcy Dialoge and Project Expeience
3.1.  The proposed project i the first fsanding Bank-sported bealth sector project for
Costa Rica. The poect would encompss a comprehensive heakh sector reorm as part of
the resucturing of the national social security system for which relatively ltde Bank
expeence is available. This review of Bank experence and lemom learned theefor dmaws
valuable lessons ftom  relevnt Bank projects in other countries, similar prects undertak
by other donors in Costa Rica and elsewhe, and Bank projects in Costa Rica in othe
sers.
3.2.  The most fquentdy enntered problems that are mkely to be relvant include
uncertain Government commitment,  nce to integration or cooperation among
institons, weak implementation capacity and uneasy fit of the poject implementation unit
Withn the implement  agency's or ion, and the lack of prvisions for aacting and
mainining qualified staff in hardship or remote areas. Other lessons are rlated to project
actions or decio; they include lack of flexibility and overly complex design, laW1 of
adequate monioring and evaluation indiatos, and problems of project sustinabily.
3.3.  Government Cnmitent, Nationa Iter-Agen  Coordination, and
impleenttIon Capacit. Numerous projects have experiend problems in
implementatin due to lack of commitment by the Government, inufficie  capacity in the
,min    , or bh. The additonal problem of resistance or reluctance to coopea   on the
part of some instions ha also caused delays and failure to meet loan coves. Projects
foud  to have been most succeful in meeting or exceefig their goals were based on
principles ad designs both agreeable to the Governent and acceptable to the BankI In the
case of this project, the implementng agency - CCSS - has a long and omendble
record in administrtion and provisin of health care at both the clinic and hospitl levels,
which augus  well for project executin. Moreover, CCSS man_gement has a clear
undrstanding of cumnt problems and constan  and has been an active partner in the
analysis of organization  and managerial problems and in the selection of solutions.
Furthermore, the proposed reform of the health sector in Costa Rica is based on a broad
consensus formed over a long period during which numerous consultations took place within
the Government and, through the media, with the gee  public. A health care policy,
including the reform of the health sector, has been approved by the National Counci of
Minisbrs (a. 1.4 and Annex 1). Another measure adopted to avoid potal setbacks
from a change of govment in 1994 has been conation with the opposition party on the
health policy and the project itself, and agreement on both concepts has been reached
therewith. The possbiity of resstance from the MOH exists concerning the trsfer of
personnel to the CCSS. The proposed project would help implement a time-phased schedule
for the tansfer of personnel and set a deadline for completing such tansfer, this staff
tansfer and timetable is also a condtion of the 1DB loan (pam. 4.15). Lastly, in 1992 the
CCSS created a Project Prepatn Unit (P) that has coordinad several working groups
and managed consultants financed under the Japanes Grant Agreement; further, provisions
are being aken to ensure clear reporting and communicaion line for a Project Coorditng



- 17-
Unii (PCU) that would succeed the PPU (pan. 4.27 and Anne 7), and to deie its role and
functions to coordia, monitor and evauat the prje;t dfively.
3.4.  FlxibIity nd Simpll Design. Sucsil projects bave been mared by flexibilty
in implemenion by instituting pit sudies an continuing prpapti  of country-wide
implementation stmtegiw during the first one or two yeas of the project period, later
incoipomling and applying test ms . Another ch   c of such p      iojects simplicity
and clarity in design The proposed project is based on a clear definition of the basic health
car model and prposes alten     of fnncing and healh can provision which would be
tested before being adapted and applied on a wider scale (pas. 4.24-4.25). A lesson
leaned from otber heat reform prjects (e.g., h aand Konea) is that repliation of
findings from test is more a matter of tsanfi   m     and desg principles, ther
than a wholesale adoption of "model progams or int tions. Although maximum
simplicty in desg is inhery difficult in projects involving major reofoms of a social
program such as this one, the proposed poject design itduces transparewcy by making the
objectives of each component as       measurable, and mnioble as posble and
by e tablishing explicit timetables for key acs, which wil be monoed usig speclly
desged comput software (pm. 6.4).
3.5.  Monitorimg and EWalon Indicato. Projects in the past have suffered from the
lack of explicit mea ble p ess and end-rul indicators. The problem is especially
difficult in the social sects where data collecdon is poor or non-exstet and concrete
indicats are often not available. Fortunly, informaton on healh in Costa Rica is
excelent, in part becaue most of the seices are provided by Goverme  agencies, but
also because of a consientous effor by the Govenme  to m   h     cis. The
proposed project tk  advantage of the wealth of information available and will improve on
it with further  izaion and co_rn of data flows (pan. 4.8). Progress,
implementation, and impact indicators have been defined and wiUl be monitored throughout
project implementi    (Annex 8). ITe pject would also include a Qualty Ass nce e sub-
component for moitoring the ffects of prmaiy health car services on the health conditons
of local areas (para 4.16). Besides pOviding a powerfi tool for    gent, these
monIoring effort will help lay the goundwork for future policy actons and health
investments.
3.6.  Staff MIX and A        In Remote Area. Health projects have faced problems
of inadequate staff mix, patlrly scarcity of murses in retion to physicians, poor taining
for auxffiaries, and absence of qualfled staff in hardship or remote areas (pa. 2.9). A
problem for developing and developed counties alike is the rstce by health staff to
move to and remain in harsi or remote areas. In the context of this project, staff
incentives would be addressed in the Mapower Plnning study (pam. 4.10(b)). ReWgading
imbaunces in the staff mix, solutions take a long time, since they require changes in
manpower formation policies involving the univeities. In this project, a study on
manpower needed for health sevices, currendy Hmited to the CCSS (pam 4.10), would be a
first step toward placing the topic of manpower polcies in the agenda for more m-dePth
Government/Bank health policy discussions during the mid-term and annal reviews (pam.
6.4-6.5). In reference to eocaDt  of health staff to achieve a more even geoaphic
disbutin, past attempts in other coUnties to move govm=t Staff to remote areas has
had only Hmited sccess in the absence of appropriat (and ofte expensive) incentives. Tbis



- 18-
prioect will tet the use of aleative providers (conucts with coopeatives or private
grop) to doever health sices in areas now not coverd with good healh senices for lack
of various types of heath staff (para. 4.25).
3.7.  Adequate Supervon. The need for close superion, especially in the eady years
of a project, is wll aowledged in the Bank and applies across sctors. The proposed
project would begin with a launch semi  upon efectiveness and inlude an average of 23
saffweeks of spevision per year, plus a mid-term Govemment-Bank review (pia. 6.5), to
assess progress in policy    r N  their implementation (Anne 11). Besids Bank
spervsion, a PCU (pa. 4.27 and Annx 7) wil be responsible for day-to-day follow-up of
prject activities, monitoring and evaluation, and producing semi-annual report on projec
mplementation which would include analyses usin the agreed indicatos (pam. 6.4 and
Annexc 8).
3.8.  PtoJect Sustebity. Seveda OlD proect evaluaon repot noted that the
iability of govents to contn  fincing recurt costs limited the effect of pnjects to
the extent of their durations. This project diffes from many other health projects finced
by the Bank or by other donors that usually requie substatal increases in goverment
e    iues. Exansi  of services and   vement in quality would be accompaned by
reorms of the financig system which ame intended to ratonalze Pnditu and improve
effciecy in the CCSS health services while finding alteative soures of financing such as
through the use of private sector providers and iplemention of effective cost-recovery
measres where applicable (through a refinement of unit costs, pam. 4.24 and Annex 4,
pars. 26(b) and 34(d)). An amnu  incremental recurrent cost of 2.7 percent of the
estmated CCSS budget in 1993 prices in the last year of the project (pam. 5.3) would not be
an exessive burden on the CCSS annual budge in sbsquaent years. Moreover, thfis
aditio  'ost should be amply offset by the adopton of alttve financing meanisms,
the p     n  of private sctor providers, and  t io   of expi    within CCSS
services. Th level of svings could be   nt (see Pioject Economic Benefits, pars.
7.2-7.4 and Annex 4). For instance, tes  conducted in the last three years with a financing
model using actual cost data from coperatves resulted in cost reducto  of up to 30 pecent
in offering primay care sec  - plus increased clieat satisfacon - compared to CCSS
expenditues for simila services.
B. The Rob of Other Donors
3.9.  The IDB has been the main source of eenal financing for Costa Rica's public health
system in the pasL In 1975 it fianced a Nadonal Iicalth Services project for US$20.0
milin, constig of the contto of three reonal  sp , the matern  and child
health care centers amd 12 prmary healt care clinics. Thereafter, two IDB technical
assistac loans were provided for institutiona  h g  of the CCSS (focudng on
improvement of adminive and budgetuy procedures) and the estbli   of an
btegated health  fastuct  network maint ce program for both the CCSS and MOH,
for an aggegate amount of about US$1.1 million. In 1991, the IDB and the Bank started to
coordinate their support to the health sector. Under a framework jointly defined by the
Govenment and the two leang istiios, the MDB would supr the instond refonms
of the MOH while the Bank would finance institutonal rorms in the CCSS. The IlB loan
of US$42.0 milion was signed on Febmary 1993. Close linges exist between the two



- 19-
ptocts. The project prepartion unit which was fist created to coordint the preparation
of the IDB project for the MOB was strd to contin  with the prptin of the
posed Bank prject. The edeined pmary health care model was ppared by a working
group with staff from MOE, PAHO, and CCSS and consuants, which had previoly
participated in the prepartion of the bition  sng    compont of the MOH and
detenned the  rutctr and staff to be tunsfed to the CCSS (thmu avoiding
dupliaion). The piko testin of resource allocation and managemt in an igatd health
area (pan. 4.25 and Annem 4, pen 38) would take pae in Alajuela, which is also the
province where the MDB loan will finance the replacement of a trtiay level hospital; the
pilot te would be implemented in the old hospitl and its results would contine to be used
in the m  ee  and admIn-isan of the new hoial one it is completed (this wil not,
however, delay the aepansion of the pilot to othr areas). To eure close coordin
betwee the two pects, the Government has decided to appont an overall Project Director
Generl who would have resosibility for coordng the acto  of both proects. Lastly,
th implementI      of the IDB project is also being coordinated by the CCSS.
3.10. Ihe Cental Ameican Bank for Economic Integra1on (CABE  recety apprved a
loan for US$8.0 milion for rhIliIon of the ealth inf    e of the Huetar Atintica
region which was damaged in the earthqake of 1991. This project is being implemented by
the CCSS under the fiamework of the agreed insutnal reform program. In addito, the
CCSS is negotiatng a loan of US$30.0 milLon equivalent with the Government of Spain for
hospit eipmentL The bilateral astnce in the health sector includes the Swedish
Goverment, which apved about US$12.0 million equivalent for CCSS to implement the
reional dalizaon effots and tain reg    management staff.
C. Bank Srategy and Role
3.11. Costa Rica is seekn to deepen the structural reform process by ensuing mao-
economic stbiity, carrying out a fundamental  fo on of the public sector, inWegating
the economy with world markets,  g      inftucture, enhacing the compeiveness
and efficncy of ts fiancil system, improvig the coverage and dlidency of social
programs to furter reduce poverty, and    ning environmental m  e.
3.12. The Bank would assst in the implemeon of the Govement stategy tough the
on-going SAL m (La. No. 35944CR, 1993), the Basic Educa    Rehabiliion Project (Ln.
No. 3414-CR, 1991), the Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project aLn. No. 3625-CR,
1993), and the Agrcue Sector Investment Project (La. No. 3447-CR, 1992), and
proposed new lending opeaions in inuc re, foresty and bio-diversity, tnsport, urban
development, and human resources. A common objective in designing the lending progam
is to build on and complement the wider public sector reforms being implemented by the
Governent. in addition to ptject-spedfic objectives, the proposed opeations will aim at
imprving public sector m ent by s      ng  sector institutions and policies,
deimift overlaps and duplication among agencies, emphasizng the rebabi   and
maintenane of in     u  and services, and spti  cost-recovery and a more active
private sector role. The public sector reforms to be implemened over the medium term
considute an assential policy umbrella to enhance the development impact of fte proposed
lnding program.



-20-
3.13. The Govement's soi sector reom prgm  to be supported under SAL m has
he  major components: (a) iprving the taeting and coverae of socia:! programs; (b)
strengtheing retining effot to absorb displaced public sector workers and (c) refomuiag
the pension system. Tese reforms are desine to potec groups affected by the structual
reform program, improve the effiiency nd equity of social sndig, and provide a sunder
fisa base for social programs. By supporting wh rfam progam in the health sector, the
proposed project would complent the Govemet's economic refom project to be
supported under SAL m.
3.14. Costa Rica's health sector is at a cncal development junctre. Having reached
virually universal coverage, the challege now is to imprve the system in terms of
efficency, ening equity and acces to hIgh quat health car whLie conuretdy
enhancing intenad effiency in the provision of heal serices mn a fancally suaable
manner. This woudd invole chags in existing policies and appoaches, financing
mechanisms, admInistaton, and man       Bank involvement in the healh sector is
timely, for it can play an iwportat role beyond the prvision of investment fiancing per se,
assisting to formulae and implement health sector policies, insttue alteraive health
financing schemes, and dei  cost-effective health programs which should have a signficant
coribution to the attiment of Cosa Rica's overal development objectives.
3.15. The project woud be a vehicle for the Bank to stwgthen its scial sector policy
dialogue with the Goverment. In the context of support  the Govenment's reform
program, the Primary Education R  it    program (with 1DB co-financing), the Healh
Sector Reform pwject, and sector woi oan poverty annt and on  b  sectr and
social scrity reforms combind are givin the Bank sng vehicles to continue
concnrating on policy reforms in the social sector. In addition to meeting project- and
sector work-specific objectvs the Bank sWegy will aim to improve social sector
an 'oentby  S b--  sector itiuons and policies, elminang overlaps and
plication among agencies, and suorti  cost-recovery meaes and a more active private
ser role, especially in the provision of health srvices. In the ip enon of this
strtegy, the Bank will rely more heavily on coopaion and  ordinion with the IDB.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Ban Involvement
4.1.  The proposed project, the first Bank lenig operation in the social sectors in Costa
Rica to be implemend by CCSS, is in line with the overall country assistance strategy
regrding social sector reform witbin a tightly managed fical policy. The project would
provide furher encourageme n to the Government to fobr  head with the state reform
pwoam through plaming, pilot testing ad implement  crucial policies and institutional
reft.ams in the delivery of primary health care sevices. The project would lay a strong fiscal
and suctul frmework for coplet rem   of the enire health sector, including hospitals,
thro    possil subseque  projecs; future operaions would pursue similar financial and
quality objecdves.  he Bank's inteactons with the Govenmen during project preParation
hv allowed exc_an    of eperec  and resu  of studies on social security and health
swctor rem in othr outries, pariay Chile in Lati Ameica as well as Korea and



-21 -
Indonesia, which echangs have been acnowledged as strong inpus ito Govenmet
policy decisions. Clear Goverment polcies and a broad consensus exist. Te Health Sector
Refrm plan was approved by the Natonal Council of Ministers in Mach, 1993 (Annex 1)
and detiled workg documents wer prepared in the county on each reform item. Bank
Inteatons with CCSS officals duing project preparatio served as inputs for deciding on
these refom measus. These meas   will have far-reaching medium- and long-term
impact on the social secity and health can prvion systems i the country and represent
the first step in th reucting of the CCSS to improve efficiency, t, and
accountabilityin the soca security system.
B. Project Objeeives
4.2.  The proposed project would sport the Government's short- and medium-tem efforts
in the impleme    of criical policy, institutional and operational reforms which aim at
impoVing the efficiency, effectiveness, and quality of the delivey of CCSS health care
serices and improve the quality conrol and surveillance system in the health sector. Tis
would be accomplsed by:
(a)   Asisting the CCSS in implementng institutional reforms at the central level
and in    g        the support systems and the d a      process which would
devolve to the regions and national hospals the management and opeation of health
services;
(b)   Supporting the implem  on of a redefined model of prmary health care
svices which would be based on national pnorty health care progams and, at the
same time, be responsve to regional and local epidemiological conditions;
(C)   S L         th CCSS fncial complex by improving the resource
mnament, allocaon and evaluation systems, reducing evasions, increasing
contributor control of  dal security premiums, and pilot testing, with the
expectn of wider implemention of alernative models of health care fimancing and
hospital an and
(d)   Designing and implemeng feasibility studies for the development of a
NatiDnal Sureace and Qualy Cnrol Iaboatoy.
C. Maui Project Features
4.3. The project would finance the health reform program of the CCSS and would
complement other in     l and bilaeral assistance, including on-going projects financed
by the MDB for implementation of the health sector reform in the MOH and replcement and
improvement of bealth inftu  (paras. 1.5 and 3.9) and by CABEI to replace
arftuWAamapd Shealth infastuctue (pam. 3.10). By reuctuing the organiztional
sttre of the CCSS and spporti  a redefned pdmary health care model, the project
would beneft the poion at large, but pacularly the indigent and low-income groups
which have the greates need for acesble publc prnmary health care services. The project
would also complement SAL m, which is desned to protect groups affected by the



-22 -
stctural reform  program, Improve equity in social spending, WNd provide a sounder fical
base for the delvey of healh ca.
4.4.  The prj  object   would be  cmplished    ug the fobllowingcomponents (a)
cSB s                   S =And- thi wy compo_ent compris  degn of
procedures and Imple-entat  of CCSS polcy and instiona refom; (b)
Edon Raft  Cam NMQOL  Quf  AM =  AId H1                  SWudy Oondstig f
deentaliation of pdmary health care services under CCSS into seven regions, 74 heath
areas, and 700 health tanis foowing redefined norms and progmms adapted in each region
and area tD rpond to varied epidelological onditions; (c) RomI IIapnagmQ    ikg
Io_ogiLA emaive im      M CM    cingW  woud wuort the moderniztion of resource
management, allocation, and evaluation systems, while desigg and tesdng altaive
payment systems that would increase the involvement of the private sector and expl
altenive delivoy models; and (d) Nad  HoS l  ufi gbv and Qwat
I .b =    JUAdditionally, the project would provide for project adm on  though a
PEiec-t"U t. a.nk (PCU) in CCSS witin the same           ati  framework as for the
MDB and CABE[ projects (para. 4.27).
D. Desuiption of Components
Component 1: CCSS  1R Reform and Devlopment
(US$9.1 million or 28.4 percet of total cost  di g    s)
4.5.  This key componeat for succesect impmeaio would enable CCSS to
assume fkil resonsibility for the delivery of health sevices using its own facilties as wel as
contacting with other providers; it would have the following ub-compnent: Stng g
the CCSS O       ion M geme   formation System; Human Resources Development
and Manpower Planning; and P    e       and Medil Supplies System and Rational Use
of Medicines.
4.6.  Sub     nent A: Stmngthebing the CCSS Orpnizatin (US$1.4 mil lon including
contingencies). The prwect would s   implementation of the reaimnent of the CCSS
centra office by: (a) clearly defining the instiutonal objectives of the CCSS, the role and
functions of the policy-making level of the CCSS - Board of Direct and Executive
President; (b) separating the admnisttion of pemions, health care provision and financing
to enure greater tansparency in the use of resources; and (c) devolving many of the
managment, op      al, prgaming and b ng functions to the regional levels. The
CCSS would be restuctured according to a formally approved organizional proposal'
into three separate complexes which would uction    niy   der the normative
gudanc of the Policy Level: Ineated Halh Care, Penons, and Fmancal Mana
The proposal clearly describes the role and funtions of the policy level sepuation between
the fnancial   e    t and the provision of pensions and health care senrices. Ihe new
CCSS proffle, as  ibed below, and deailed TORs for the design of the orgaional
and operational sucture for each of the compleces, including dfinitio of objectives,
funtions, staffing, norms and procedures, and operalona manuals, were agreed upon aZ
nJ CCSS,  Mfay199d3.na     dela CCS. Tenn  de a v oWa             Kl aUa40,
Sul los6, C ft Riaa 19".



-23 -
n ams (pma. 4.7). Ih CCSS would also prpar an ntuiona development plan and
timeable for the impmen   of th reforms, prgress of which would be assessed at the
anua and mid-term reviews (paras. 6.1-6.5 and Annex 11).
(a) The aftiWr 4ey1 composed of the Board of Directors and the Executive
President, would be  sponsdble for: (i) dining the policis and strates to be
fbolowed by the CCSS in        g f the actosrelated to the Pensions, Integ d
Health Care, and Fiancial Mana_et Complexes, in accordance with the Nadonal
Devlopmet and Health Sector Plans; (ii) monig and vauating the Impact of
thfes policies Nd satgies to meet the objectives and targets defined for the CCSS;
(Mii) ensring that mnIgm-_tI and admini of the  ee complees are in
accdance with the legal framework, to guantee the rational use of resouces in the
implmenon of specific prgrams; and (iv) controln and auditig to emure that
the fial rsuc  conibted by the Govermt, employer, and wodrers for
he IVM and SEm prgms are used for their inteded puxoses, ensre full
tanspancy in the system and prevent cros-ubdies betweel the three Complexes.
(b)   I    the g     atem =          would manage the health care delivery
and supp  networks. The prgrams under this complex would include curative,
preventve, promotve, and rehabiave health care activities. The Integrated Helth
Car Complex, workig in close coordination with the Regioml Offices, would have
responsibiy for: (i) formulafing health plans according to the policies and strategis
defned by the Polcy Level, to enmue te deivery of high-quality and efective
c   (ii)  nirg the resources geated by payroll axes and other sources,
which would be tans d from the Financial Management Complex based on pre-
ablished criteria agreed upon by CCSS' policy and       levels; (iii)
preparin annual invstment and opeatonal programs and budgets, to be submitted to
and negoated with the Fmancial Managment Complex; and (iv) monioring and
evalutn   the impact of heal prgrams and services. Its adminhi o would be
self-suffciet and would inclde secild unit   plni  an budgeting, human
esour    development and manpower planning, MIS, and technical staff and
committee to develop and issue norms and regulatos reding pdrmary, secndary
and tertary health car and pecalid progms. Seven ional offices would be
decentralied and be resonible for phlaing, budgeting and delivering of heilth
services, managing s8Upp   systems, suwvising, controlling and adminisAg
funds, and for monitoring and evaluating heal services. To spot these reforms,
the project will finance teical assistance, trining, and equIpment nessary for the
development r*f a Manaement Office which wiU be established to admistr and
implement the n   t  Health Care Complex;
(c)   lhe Penlsions CnmpMex would ainister the CCSS's IVM program. It would
be responsible for: (i) allocating financial resources, which would be tansferred
from the Financial Manm Complex, to fNM4 the benefis provided by its dtee
programs, disability payments, employee pension, and life insurance indemnites; and
(ii) cOact   for health care sevs for psn, with rources received from
the Fcial Maemt Complex. The Pensions Complex would also be
resonsble for monitoring and evnatig the use of resources for each of its three
programs. Many of the routine prcedures which are involved in the administration



- 24 -
of the th  programs will be devolved to the regonal level. To that extent, the
project would strengthen this level of mageme, as well as provide for the
establishment of specialized units in planning and budgeing; and
(d)   The Finanial Managemeunt Camzl  would be reorganized to manage the
financa resources of the CCSS. This would include normative policy decisiks and
operational actions related to the day-to-day _of the financing of the
CCSS. On a normative level, the Finacial Man ent Complex would define
resource allocation mechanisms that would be used for the contacting of medical
services from the Ingrated Heth Care Complex. On a more operonal level, the
Financial Mangement Complex would collect cal security contibutions for the
health and pension programs, negotate with the Pensions and Integated Health Care
Complexes for the transer of resources thereto, and administer the investment
portfolio of the Pensions Complex along with suiplus funds from the SEM progrm.
To ensure that resources are allocated cost-efectdvely, the Financial Mangm
Complex would develop a specialized unit responsible for prepaing, monitoring and
evuating up-to-date unk costs estmates and the effectiveness of various treatments
and medical prcedur. These reforms will be accompanied by complemetay
changes in the current financial planning, mangement and evaluation systems of the
CCSS, which are descdbed in paras. 4.18.19.
4.7.   To respond to the new institutional demands that will be ganeated by the reforms,
the project would finace approximaely 120 person-months of osas to carry out the
desin  of operational procedures and manuals for each of the complexes and regional offices,
specific studies, field swveys, and other reLated costs covenng diagnosis, design, and
implementation. The timetable for implementation of the reforms would be included in the
situtional development plans. It would also finance tng, seminars and study tours
designed to facilitate reform implementation; this trining would be offered to managers at
cend, regional, and local levels as well as to directors and other managers m national
hospitas (included under Human Resources Development, para. 4.9(a)), computer hardware
and software for specific modules (included under Management Information Systems, pama.
4.8) and the incremental costs of reform. Ding negotia&ons. agreement was reached wi
te Goverm t  d CCSS on: ai the propal for the Instutional restUcig of the
CCSSM i! the tenns of  tre fe dign of the oeioa stnwture. fimcan. and
fngpterns  for each ogf  Inteated Health Care. Pensions, and Pbl
ag     mCmles  nln  the famdon of nonns.                       ande prlgod
ronal maouma* neede to implement the r       vfornu: (l) the role and finctons of the
oad  of Directors and the Eecutive President: and (Iv) the pparaton e an instonal
dgo=       afo the inglenon of instkitol rjnnn th CCSS. Ingh
,metabk (para. 8.2(a)).         a a condion of loan ffectiveness. CCSS wouldd unish to the
Bank the CCSS institutional developrnent plan, clIng trainpg orograms for senior and
mniddke MWa=lg dircth involved in the- iptoadon QC the renIga of the CCSS n
a timetabk for Wpl*naMk9    (parm. 8.4(a)). The progress made in the implementaton of
the institutional development plan would be reviewed during the annual and mid-term
reviews. IThese organizonal changes reprsent an important first step in the restructuring
of the CCSS to improve efficiency and actabiLity n the social security system.



-25 -
4.8.  Sb Cqponen B:  Moa               Infm      Sgstm (US$3.6 milLion including
contingencie). The poposed project would fiance the esblishment of an MIS network
(nluding collecdon of data to develop health indicators for evaluation and Quality
Assuance, pan. 4.16) on a coniuing basis. The MIS would facilta  the ma
infomatkon flow, speed up policy and management decisions within and between the CCSS
departments, servc  and operaonal levels. It would also failite the information flow
betweon the CCSS and the MOP to improve revenue coLetio and preven evasion, as well
as information flows to and from private bealth providers in the future. The MIS would be
designed in "modules" according to the management ad operaonal requitements of the
Policy Level and the Pensions, Integmted Health CD, and Financial Management
mplexes, as well as to regional and field mana    needs. The project would finance
consulncy services to review the exsting system and design and implement a new MIS,
taining of staff (inclued under Human Resources Development, pan. 4.9(a)), computer
software and hardware, and incremental operating cos to execute the new system. &DUg
gtedadons. atssunes were obained b   he CCSS woul&     mm out the std ofh
ex-g CCSS Magement Ifonnadon Sstem no lr dh  Setember 3. 1994. di)   sh
to the Rank an acAjon plnno later than NovkEbe 30. 199k. and (Il) J=impem    theato
laIn h a maD*er s     o    th        (pam. 8.1(a)). As a cdion  r df bem    for
9o=P    ha,la. a           with the GoQwrnment wold= have been reached on e action
a Md alrfBrb nkWA  efta new CCSS AMangmeM jbformionas
(yara 8.5(a)).
4.9.  subCoMont C: Human Rsoures Devl pm           a  Maggow  Planin (US$1.6
miion including contngencies). This sub-component would concentrat on two main areas:
hum  resources dovelopment and manpower planning, as described below.
(a)  Hli      Bsoources DeY1menI. The project would support the development
of human resources needed to guide and implement the CCSS reform and to deliver
efficnt and quality health car services. Three types of ting would be supported
under the project: (i) senior managemen (directs at central and regional levels and
national hospials), responsible for managing and implementing the CCSS reform
program and for developing operational policies, segies, priority programs, norms
and procedures for the Pensions, Integrated Health Care, and Financial Resources
M    !angent Complexes, who would receive taining in the fonn of short courses,
semin, professional meengs and selected study tours to observe socil secuity,
healft care delivery, and financing schemes; (ii) middle mangement (department and
service chiefs, regional hospitals direcos), directly responsible for implementing the
reform program in the cental complexes and at regional and local levels, who would
receive short courses and seminars and participate in selectd study tours; and (iii)
service delivery staff, who would atend courses and seminars on technical and
aIministative topics, designed according to ideniied tMaining needs (e.g., traning
for implementing the MIS, improved planning, procurement and disttibution of dmgs
and medical supplies, pernnel ainisio). Although specific training activities
have been defined by CCSS (taining for the financial maagement complex staff and
for the pharma     and medical supplies system) as part of the preparatory work
for this project, annual training plans would be refined in response to specific needs,
as detrmined by the CC- " institonal         and regional offices and the
het aeas. Ihe tainu  ,rogram for senior and middle management staff direcdy



- 26 -
involved in the implemeon of the restructring of the CCSS would be part of the
ittonal development program (pas. 4.6-4.7). The taining program for
mAnagement would be managd by the Contr for Strategic Development and Appled
Reseawch for Health and Social Seurty (Cent Nadonal de Desanollo EstraOgico e
Informadcn en Salad y Segwudad Sodal, CENDEISSS). This center is a preigious
nsittion established by CCSS and has many years of national and in onal
taining experience. During project praration, the role and function of the
CNDEISSS were reviewed and realigned so that it may assume a leadership role in
the implmentaton of the health sector reform, paricularly in traing of staff to
implement the reforms in both MOH and CCSS. Tlining for local staff dircdy
involved In the Implementation of the Redefined Health Care Model is explained and
financing is included under this component (paras. 4.14-4.15); and
(b)   mum          Plnnig. The CCSS Evaluation Commission identified the
following areas in personel policies that need improvement: (i) a clear definiton of
personnel policies; (ii) greater autonomy for regional and nadonal hospital directors in
hiing, dismissing and promotng staff; (iii) adequate and appropriat staffing for
health cae services delivery; and (iv) development of an orgational enviroment
which would reward high perormance and increase movaion and job satisaction of
the staff. The CCSS would initialy instute a system of manpower planning and a
eview of sffing needed in the context of therestructuring of the CCSS. This would
be done for the cerl and regional offices. Curret staffing of aU service providers
in the CCSS are based on historical pattns and are fixed by law, and this rigid
saffing system imposed by the civil service law has been a continuous constaint to
incring productivity. To address the issues of inadequate staff mix and short work
hours (para. 2.9), the CCSS would determine the personnel stucure to be adopted in
view of the proposed instutonal reforms. The study would include: (i) analysis of
the CCSS's existing personnel poicies, staffing patterns, incentives for personnel, and
the implicatons of the civfl service law; (ii) review of personnel policies, norms and
procedus, and staffing patterns required by the CCSS and each of the Complexes to
implement the refonms (the review would first be done at the central and regional
offices and, during the second year of the project, in the pilot regon for the redefined
primary health care model, Huetar Norte (para. 4.13)); and (iii) expnon of the
review to other regions. About 60 person-months of consultancy services would be
financed by the projet to implement the system. DudzgL neg.tifo. assurances
MMe obained at the CCSS         (Xi) complete the Manower Study at the ce
and repgnpal of    no- later than September 30. 1994: dit) w a m    witht
Bank on an acon plan. inc        tble  no later td  Niovember 30. 1994: and
(il) Implement the aco plan. satdsfatom  to the Bank (a. 8.1(b)).
4.10. A Human Resources Development Fund4' would be set up to finance the
reqirements of the CCSS training progam  for implementation of reforms. The concept
beind the Fund i to provide sctor units or institutions the abilky to design their own
taining programs based on specific needs and submit them for approval according to pre-
/ lho otue, estabishdment, o_lnizion and ldes and procedues for this Fund are spelled out in a document
etidtled *Fonda Naciou de Pon4d6n y Capaciad6n &s Satud CENDEISSS, San Jos6, Costa Rica, May, 1993
(in prtjOet fles).



-27-
detemin  evaluation criteria The merit-based flexibility of this system would encoage
competion among sor endties to submit well-prepared taining progrm  bids and
eliminate the practice of eam5aridag while ensuring that raing programs would be
complementary, based on natonal sector poities and smategies, and matched to the phased
implementation of reforms under the project. Pour principles underlie the design and
organization of the training fund: (a) ensuring that taining programs ane designed according
to prorito pograms and needs to implement the reforms; (b) ensuring te effectiveness of
taing activities; (c) pusig efficiency in the use of trining unds, thus avoiding
duplicaon and rationalizing invesment in human capit for the sector, and (d) providing
support for the implemestation of the reform pgam and the decentrizon prcess. Each
year, the various units within CCSS, as well as the national hospitals, regional offices, and
other sectord agencies woud prepare taining proams using stadard formats that would be
evaluated according to five tsparent critea. Ihee criteria would be related to national
priorities (implementaion of CCSS reform program, level of health care services, and
consistency with national priorities), the fourth would reflect the local or agency priority, and
the fifth, impact of the pwposed taining. The atnual t   ptiojects submitted for
financing would be naked by ad hoc evalaton commies (e.g., senior management
middle management, and specific health-related areas) staffed with expert in sbjects related
to the types of tang progams (i.e., the University s School of Economics and Public
Heath Administrion, other institions or        consuitas for ment
activities) accrding to p i hd criteria defined by the Nal Council for
Development of Human Resources for the Health Sector. To manage the fund, a Trining
Program Secetariat would be set up in CENDEmSSS, staffed by a proam manager, two
professnals, and a secretay. The Secretariat's TORs were reviewed by the Bank during
appaisal and considered satisfctry. It would be responsible for (a) establishing crita,
guidelines, and policies for the continued dvelopment of the taining program; (b) evaluating
the performance of the training program and redesigning it as needed; (c) supplying
information to the CCSS, MOH, and health iutions regarding, but not lmited to, taining
offered, authorized bidders, evaluation results, and necesary documentation; (d) maintaining
information system records on the training program, and dissminatng information to the
CCSS, MOH, the ad hoc evaluation committees, and the PCU; and (e) organizing meetings,
supervising performance, and approving the results of taining evaluations. The Secretaiat
wil be headed by a professional with exeience in human resources development and in
management who would be appointed by the CCSS. The procedures for establiding the
Fund, principles and criteria to finance training, TORs and opeadonal procedus were
reviewed by the Bank during appaal and considered satisfactory (detais in document cited
in Footnote 14). Reiew of the operations of the Fund would be undertkn during the mid-
term review (pam. 6.5 and Annx 11). Puin g nggtions. assues   e ob          t
th CCSS woudd operae and mnain the Hm    Resorces Delopet Fnd with staffn#.
opional rue ndo poced-s Ma w      g. and g sMft    cRon critera sadfa&or to the
&a&(am. 8.1 (c)). As a condidan et sbursementftwr )n resourcsdelon
aevies. the =CS wulid hve estabfished the Huma Resoe Development (pu.
8.5(b)).
4.11. To respond to the increased activities in the CCSS generated by the project
(instiional changes, redeition of the prmary health care model), approximately 625 new
staff postion would be ceated under the project (200 professional health staff and 425
tecncas), and about 1,700 staff would be transrred from the MOH to the CCSS



-28 -
(incuded in the reddined primaiy health care model, pans. 4.14-4.15). Some of the new
posions are expected to be flled with existing staff that would be rdeployed and retained
after the CCSS's instonal resctdinng, in concordance with the Implementation schedule
of the redefined pnimary hea  care model. The MOH staff to be transferd wne slected
by a CCSS/MOH joint commitee among the much larger total number of appxiely
5,400 MOH staff, and will work in the implementation of the redefined primaxy health care
model. At the same time, under the IDB loan, the MOH is examining Oe staff profile and
number that will be needed for its new role and functions, and MOH redundant stdf would
be addressed within the Gmnment Public Sector Civil Servn  Reduction Plan. The cost
of the incremental personnel in the CCSS would be covered by the Government though the
anl tansfer of funds to the CCSS to cover the costs of operating the health centers and
heal post to be trsferwd from the MOH under the Programa de Integracddn. ne
eftimated amounts to be transfrred, which also include salaes and frnge benefits of
persomel to be transfed, are as follows: US$3.4 miion equivalent in 1995; US$8.5
milion in 1996; and US$15.5 million in 1997 and theafter.
4.12. Sub-Compone  D: Phar tical and Medical Sflie  Stem and  0ional Use of
jediine (US$2.5 million including condngencies). This sub-component would address two
main areas: improvemens in the system of supples of pharmaeutical and medical
materals, and efforts to promote a rational use of medicines by improving prescription and
control practices among doctrs and pharmacists and by educatig the people.
(a)   EhalmActia and Medical Sple Stam. To improve the planning,
budgetng, selkcdon and prouement of phannaceutical and medical supplies and
otherwise address the issues in this sub-secor, the project would strengthen the CCSS
pharmaceutil and medical supplies system to impove its eicencY and provide
more effective spo to health care serwe. Ths would mchde: (i) physical
improvements to the Central Warehouse and rehabiliion of the regional sorage
Xcilities; (ii) measures to avoid stock shortages and over-stockng by designing stock
control mechanms which would assre that new purchases take into consideratio
past consumpdtn of medicines and materials, exsdng stocks, and anticipated fiiture
demand; (iii) pparation of new procedures and norms or review of exng ones for
quality control, and recommendaion of new mechanisms as appropriate; (iv)
development of specifications and selecdon criteria for medical supplies, updating of
exisng calogs, and preparation of TORs and criteria to guide the evaluation
committes; (v) refinement of the        process, including a review of the flow
of work, on a step-by-step basis, regarding p ent proce s and decisions to
award contracts; (vi) reviw of legal proceds that hinder pp caurement, pa ly
the overly cenalized adjudication process and recommendations to improve it in the
conext of orgaional reforms of the CCSS and its exisig exemption from regular
procurement proceds; and (vii) analysis of cost-effective measres for timely
distribution of drugs and medical supplies to health faclities, including a feasiblity
study to explore the possibility of handling and distribution of drugs by private
contractos. The above measures would be implemented during the first two years of
the project and follow-up acions and timetable discussed and agreed during the mid-
term review. The proposal on the above actions was reviewed by the Bank at
appraisal and found sadsfactoiy. The project would finance About 41 person-monXt
of consultancy services, physical improvements to the warehouse and renabiLtion of



-29 -
the requird storage faities, staff trining (under Human Reces Development,
par. 4.9(a)), compute and software (under the MIS, pam. 4.8), and costs involved
in changes in the staff mix neded to tegthen this sub-component. Qualty cotrol
and product selection activities in the phmaeI  and medical subsector would
also be assisted thrtugh the project's component for a National Health Surveilance
and Quaity Control Laboraoy (pam. 4.26). DntIadJ4 ns       umnce were
obtaned that the CS wozSd; ()fwwlshf tote Ran a final reoll on thde activites
r thsdealisnM  ater than Jun 30.
195. dIscss ts    ngs ad rcommedato  dw    the frt annua review  J
f&2nsh to t  Bank aa action plan Wrad    e romendaons and
commntm no later than Otober 1. 199: ai       m          d an Rla.
s&sfactoi to the Bank (par. 8.1(d)); and
0)    1a    Use a  Medicines. A ecent study done by the CCSS has shown that
there are problems in the prescription and use of drugs, including reluctance to
prescrbe the use of generic brands, mistakes in the dosage, poor communication to
patients on the preriptions over the effects of dn gs and length of treatment. An
acton plan for raionalizng the use of drg was developed dring project
preparation, rviewed at appraisal, and found satisfaoy. It includes mainly the
production of educational matals on use and prescrtion of drugs for medical
professionals, phamacists and patents and opetinal research; improved
suevision, control, and monitoring of prertion of dregs; and indicators included
in the Quality    ance sub-omponent (pam 4.16). The action plan would be
implmented by the CBNDEISSS in coordinaton with CCSS regional director and
local staff. The project would fiance about 5 person-months of consultancy sevc
for the desig of educational materials, reproducton of materials, operational
rch, follow-up of the action plan, and staff taining (under Hunan Resours
Development, pam. 4.9(a)). Progress in the implemention of the action plan for
pharm aeuticals and medical supplies would be assessed duing the annual review
meins.
Component 2: Redefined Primary Health Care Model, Qualit Assurnce, and Hospital
Study
(US$17.0 million or 53.1 percent of total cost including congencies)
4.13. Ihis component addrsses the need tor reforms in the organization and technical
apaches to be folbwed in the delivery of primary health care ser    through CCSS. It
comrises three   bomonents, Radefned Primary Health Care Model, Quality Assurance,
and Hospital Study, which are described below.
4.14. Sub-CQmponent A: Redefied Pmy Health Care Model (US$16.0 milLion
including contigencies). MTe redefined model is based on principles of universal coverage,
soldaity, eqy and efficiency and the concept that health services should be msonsive to
the epidemiologic and social conditrs of the community in each local area (details on this
sub-component are presented in Annex 5). Therefore, while exhaustive lists of acceptable
clinic protocol, norms and programs have been developed and national priorities have been
Weed upon among eperts as pat of prqject pron, the exact mix of services to be
pvided in each facility is to be detmined by prioriizing health problems for each area,



-'30-
takdng int account resouroes available and the objectives purued in terms of health
hmprovemenrs within the community. Ibe main principles of ids model include
cmehmsive cuative, prventive, promotivi and pnmary health servicw at the delvery
point, prote ion of the family as the unk of health cm, condtiity ef srice prvision by
individal doctos, improved quat of services as a reslt of ddegaton of decisks to
lower levels and of competition among proves, ncased supo and Patii   of
clies in the conte  and qulity of svices, and  t       ofepdemiological
surveiance in each area. Application of ths rdeined model under the proet would
require the d ti        of managemet and budget into swven regio and the formal
esablishment of 74 health areas to be opeated by 700 basic health teams for provisio of
compehensve health care (Eqtdpo Bdco de Ateddn Integral de Sald, EBAIS).
Implementatin of the edeined model would first begin in Huetr Noie and then be
extended to other regions in a phased manner over the first two years of implemeion
according to the following schedule: Cen   Norte, Cental Sur, and Huear Adntica in
1994/95 and Chotoep, Paffico Centa, and Bnma in 1995/96 (Annex 13, Prject
Implementaton Schedule). Healtf services are expted to become much more responive to
community needs as a result of CCSS's delegtion of decision-making and budget control
auhrt to the regions and health as; also, greatar diency woud be achieved by
providing more complex sevices at lower levels, enforcing refetras, and receiving support
ftom communiy or    ons and the public. Ihe qualty of services would impwve as a
resl of a new system of Quality Assuance (pa  4.16 and sategy paper in project files),
aing, and competition among public and private service poviders.
4.15. The EBAIS have been defined to serve areas with popuatio  of 3,500-4,000; these
teams would receive support from specialists in the staff of higher complexity faiite at the
second and third levels. Although a tentatve mapping of the healh ares has been made
(Anne 5, Graph 1) indicating the secific cnics, health ceners and refeal hosital and
cics that will conform a health area, cteria and allocations wig not be inflexible and will
be reviewed and rvised as implemeai  progress. To finane the services, curret
sources, particulary CCSS colleions, would be maid_  and stentend while seekig
new sources from the private sector (various approaches to health finncing are included in
Component 3 which should be seen as fully complemnwtai to achieving the redefined
model). Govemment countespar funds would finance the incremental recurrent costs
involved in the transfer of 1,700 health staff from the MOH to CCSS (to complete the
tranfer of all responsibility for provision of services from the MOH to the CCSS), due to
the Govenment's arememe  with health pofessinals that upon tranfr they woud retain
their exisfng grade while benefitthng from the higher salay scale prevang in the CCSS.
The proect would also fInance icremental salaries for about 200 health profesdonals and
425 technicians and operating costs to implement the new model. ITe prqject would fiance
equimen for the cente and posts to be tnsferred from the MOH, sample sumveys to
monitor clinic staffing and workload, meal procedures and client satsfaction, and 35
person-months of tchncl assistance. As a codo aln        vene   he Goe
and CCSS wold: O) fish to the Bank a tlme-bid pro am.  od        to the ank.
nravldlg for [Al the establishment of the basc health tam  and b the gnsk   eth
cnte, ad  health postsm the MON to dte CCSS. together w   the trmer of
1h l.7W Af0  hea&h   p  rM&Hks  and a 8a.) =AsL and eln have zk.
aU nevu        acdons. nwgu      at atpsdoff odssuane at reonsd   to
=ivi  &    &OA   Qfthe ahXzpAn=  (para 8.40b). As an emun gfd"



-31 -
Ak debowd rgU          t  ft   Mf gf hm     mt   ad a=   .dth
baslc hlateh ta    Wd not have kment mmt    am              with is ta  and
corAVdon u(pan. 8.6(b)).
4.16.                   Sub ': Qr A=          (US$0.5 milion   in}  g
). TIs sub-componet will allow for the development of a system of QA for
evabution of primay healtb c-Txe, as a first step to estal  into the fiture on-going qult
assurance for all levels of sevices under a diversity of srvice proves, based on a set of
ndcaors developed by consuan  during pojct prpaton an vWalidated by the MOH,
CCSS, and the Univerty ("SYstema de Garwua de Cldad para los Servcdos de Atenddn
PImaria", May 1993). Th indicatos wer reviewed an found satsfacty at appal,
and would be m         in each region according to the same timetable as for the
implementationof the redefined prmary health care model. Th objecive is to provide a
tool for managers to measure the differec between the  aand actual
resuts, using  wcifc indicators, invegate the caues, and suggest and implment remedial
actions. The selected indicator (esented in Annex 8, Table 8.2) are measures of the
capacity of the stnt, quality of the process, as well as measures of outcomes. They will
enable compariso  among health areas and assessments of progess witin each area. Ihe
avalabilty of information from QA wil encoumge interventon at an early stage when public
health and medical care problems arise. ITe iicators to be used will inclde: (a) seiel
evens or outcomes that should rarely or never ocr, and (b) tracer condons, or meaues
of outcome for selected conditon which are deemed to reflect the qulty of cae in a
program or age group (e.g., chronic disease program, or child heal care). Indic    have
already been identified, reviewed and found  arpriat. Iha system would be mostly based
on exist  sources of data, although there wil be need for slight m  in the forms
currenty in use and for some specal surveys. These reuiements would be tak  into
account in the MIS su     b pam  4.8). For QA, the proect would finance
developmnt and conduction of t      modules for health service mangers on
im*   _atien and use of the new system, travel costs for regnl  clitors (to be
selected from the est  regional and area health stll) to operate the system, and 26
peson-monts of technical assstac. Support for QA under the proect would also come
frm the establishment of the National Health Surveillance and Quaity Conol Laboratory,
which would serve as a national referen.c cnter for health survefllance, ei ogical
mon ng, and disease coui- aptograms (par. 4.26). A a o n
e  wawde     R ede fld  F H    Carace
sucte.  in each rec e heah  area:   alU heah centrs and .oss would have
bee, mns/rre to the COS.-~ (il aUl basic health teamu =Wd have benetbihedan
ARk oad (IN the CCSS wou  hv fd    dxcluve conmal over th
MlotwgcmLtu bkxc   au m3s  (pam. 8.5(c)).
4.17.           n C:  ost Sdy - Seoay= and TitIay Health Care Levels
(US$0.5 million including cont ncie). A subsequet stage of implemeion of the
redeied model of prmary health cae would consist of the exmination and reform of the
sonday and trtiary systems of health cae, including the hospital network and  calized
cics. The project would fmance a co          study of the seondary and
W Quality Asuanc is defined as th opimm      that cagn be achieved in a pardcular falit or arm, given
do ypand stu of rscs avAible.



- 32 -
teray levels, which would have as its main objectives a descriptn of the cumrt stuaton
in hospials and high-complexity cnics, a definition of the funtons, staffing, procedures,
contol mechanisms and financg of sevs to achieve cost-effectvn  and qualiy at the
secondary and tertary levels, and a proposl for reform of the seconday and tetay levels
aimed at improving qualty of the sevic, defing the role of the prvae sector, and
offering financing alte iatves. Ie terms of refrence for this study would be agreed upon
duing the mid-tem rew. P-idg negolF. gu                 w
would: 1 col pe the sd on secAndy n terl kr of CMe  t Jt t
Dlecembr 3l. 1996. (iI) pare   an acdon plan       table. to £ agedih the
Raf no later w   March 30. 1997: and ffiii    tplan. saactoy to t
Agk (Pam. 8.1(e)).
Componet 3: Resource Manage          and Pilot Tsig of Altenative Modes of Health
Cane Fnancing
(US$2.3 million or 7.2 percent of total cost including condtgencies)
4.18. This comnent consists of four sub-components: Resource Manem   Allocation
and Evaluadon; Resource Mobilization and Improvement of Financal Stabily; Review of
Exisng Alenative Resource Allocation, Delivety, and Financing Models; and Pilot Testing
of Alterative Models of Financing and Administatio Mechansms. Ihe prposed
instuonal reforms in Sub-component l.A (Strengthening CCSS Oranizaion, pas. 4.6-
4.7) require fundamental changes and moderizon in the current financial memen
systems of the CCSS, which this component is designed to address.
4.19. SubComnonent A: Resource Management. Alocation and Evalu  (US$0.9
million including contingencies). TIs  b-component would improve p ming and
management capacity to use budgetary resources mor e£ffciendy, improve the incentives for
health svice mang   to encouage cost control and efficency, and increase tan
in the use of CCSS resources at all levels of the health care system. Ihe project would
modify the current financial manage  and evaluaon systems to respond to the
institutional changes (paras. 4.6-4.7) and the reddinition of the primary health care delivery
model (pamas. 4.14-4.15) and would support the developmeat of a budget expressed in tms
of programs that are output-related and of a complementary monitoring and evaluation
infomation system, which would allow the CCSS and health area dicos to match
eenitures against the defined program outcomes and instutional objectives. This would
make it possible to evaluate performance and to introduce cost-effectiveness cnsiderions
into CCSS healM endies. Moreover, these chages in the budgeting process of the
CCSS are already being implemented within the context of the Govemment's budgtary
reform program. The project would finance 40 months of consultancies to develop the
budgeing system and operating costs covering diagnosis, design and impleme     it
would also fiance the cost of developing an MIS module on financing, including computer
hardware and software (pama. 4.8).
4.20. Sub-Component B: Resource Mobiization and Improvement of the FimancialS
e CCSS (US$0.3 milLion including contingencies). This sb-component would consist of
designing and implemening new procedures and norms to reduce evasion and incrase
contibutory control, through improvements in the CCSS coUection and auditing funcdons, to
increase the effiiency and effectiveness of the current CCSS revenue mobiizaton systems.



- 33 -
The prject would fiance the following tbree gmp of stude (described in Annex 4,
Section D, with TORs in the poect fils and timetables in Aex 13), which would result in
spcfc proposals for chnges in stucture,       , facilies, equipment and personnel:
(a) Mm fe goup oftdies would se ways to mprve ewoonnic incetives for
affatbon to the CCSS, discouage under-reprtg   of incomes, and addre  the
imbalance between contbons and benefits for indepent and informa sector
workers. Tre  gudies would be conducted: (i) eaimaion of the impact of non-
contnUtion and evaion on CCSS reveme, according to each contributory group;
(ii) acial review of the adequy of cumrt premium lvels in light of the
expansion of benefits proposed under the redeied primary beal care model; and
(iii) analysis of the current methods used to calae the costs of befts provided to
indigents and the manner in which the CCSS collects coresonding resources from
the Govenment (Annex 4, paras. 22(a)-(c)). Ihese stusdie would be caied out by
the Actuarial Department of the CCSS withi the Financial M ent Complex
during the first year of project implemeIon, with the asistace of consults;
(b)   The econd group of studies woud assess and propose improvements to the
process of reporting eanins and Xt colecdon of social security conibtns from
employers, employees, and independent warrs. These sdies would promote a
rsogn of the current system aimed at stamdining collection and incresing
conribtory control. The proposed stdies would: (i) review the currat reporting
of eamings and collecig system and dedgn of an improved system; (ii) develop
specific procedures to allow the CCSS to match rported incomes with other
Government agencies and a metodology to control the level of evasion in
coordination with the MOP and the Department of Income Tax; (iii) design and
implement an effective auditory process; (iv) modernize the curra   computerized
system used to bill and collect s6cial security paymefnts; and (v) develop an automated
system of contrl of contrtions in the area of inspections which would integrae the
cenr and rgiona levels (Annex 4, paras. 24(a)-(e)). As a coron of kos
ffctiveness. the Goewnent and CCSS wouldfugnish to the Bank an apre
bn  the CQCSS and the AMiestry  Fianc, to enable the echaige of tax. sociag
gc.rtL. and income kt& onad  (pam. 8.4(c)); and
(c)   The thI group of studies would analyze the feasiblity of uzng altemative
reveue sources, such as increases in the number of prfivate beds in CCSS hospitals,
co-payments and d   bles, improed cost-recovery in the sale of serces to
u insured groups and prvate patents, and development of mechms to ensure that
providers, the CCSS, and the cent  Government comply with the contract for
traDsfer of resources to the CCSS health insurance fund. Mme studies would also
develop, inter alla, a framework for effecdve and equitable cost-recorery measures,
including: (i) differentiag between levels of care, and whether a visitation resulted
from refel, etc.; (ii) adoptlrg a payment scale based on ability to pay; and (iii)
increasing incentives for fee ollecton by keeping revenues at the collecting point.
4.21. Sties under this sub-component would be caried out during the first year of project
implem ptatio by the Financial M eent Complex and by both national and internaional
consuhants. Th results of the  studies wod be discussed with relevan agencies in the



-34-
Govment (e.g., MOP, Depaqtment of Inome Tax, e.) and the Bank during the first
anmal rew. D-r*al  netdatl. azsw es swm gbtad dea: 41 h di  on
mum  maWkad  an-loodal aWtAf af & CMS  msum be a=*Wi ag tAtt thq
!firne 30. 19       tr res     and rmmendaons would be dcussed wt the Bank
dialig thes anna rie: 6) an action pe il.jgtSj.Wto W
Bank would be liaw    to the Bank no    haOtob  1. 1995: and fl the CCSS
re gpZt  Vie aadx ,gl  h a mawdtr  to the   (p=a. 8.1(0).
4.22. The CCSS would also recover funds in arrars from the Goverment. To impwve
the financil stbiization of the CCSS, th Government would eliminate its otanding debt
to the CCSS (paa 2.14(b)). In addition, to avoid incuring new debt, the Govement
would cover the ful cost of provision of health care to thbindigent populaio by
nsferling to the CCSS funds from the Fondo de Audgnadones FamliwaW, as estblishd
under the IlB loan and in accordance to the amounts estimated by the CCSS (pam. 2.14(a)
and Footnote 11). A* a cond of lQ a k ffctias. the GoevMe  and CCSS wow
tlmrih to dte Bwak a saoiy signed   sld=y Agme  betwe te MOE and the
CCSS. p li, for:  ) the  ker            nk loan prom d ftm the Goemn tO
CCSS and  ) awmt     or e   elaion of the oueng dt ef h    u
it CCSS and the G-mt's commainent q ligUe debt eled to the fn if  e
SEWl progrm  of the CC   woud not be lnpamed ( . 8.4(0. D))  ng neg.s.
asszwvncL wre o&ad ta the Goe_AMen would rnf to CCSS tDe nn  to
cover the h&4h cost f the igensn accordane  h a metwoology sadtfactoiy  e
5gt (pan. 8.1 ()).
4.23. 
Aremadve  Ddli=  and FnFg Models (US$0.6 million inclun  ontgecies). The
objecives of this sub-component are to develop, within a detized deliveiy and
fnancig fiamewok, a revised system for resource allocaion and budget transfer for the
CCSS which closely link the planning and budget process to resource alocaos at aU levels
of care; dein and implement a fiancial resource allocaton model which preserves the
prncples of equity and efficiency while promotng the development of alternative deliveiy
and financing models rntg at imprving eficiency in the managent of bealth  sources;
dedsg imprvements in the curent hospital          to meet the needs of the new
budeting and resource allocation process; and evaluate the existng alteative delivery and
financing systems (e.g., cooperatives, medidna de empresa, mediia mixta, and libre
ecdn). These include: (a) sudies related to financi allocaton, i.e., fixed captato
tansfers,W Dignostic Related Groups (DRG)-type payment systems, and tansers
(described in Annex 4, Secdon   and F); (b) a methodolo  to calulate the unit costs of
diffeent types of seices at facilies, according to complexity level; (c) the design of
alternative systems for hospital adnon of financial and personnel resources,
accounting and budgetg procedures, and inputs to the MIS module on hospital
administtin; (d) a module of the MIS which would allow CCSS to improve idenfcaion
IV Under the per cait, or capitatian, budgetig modaity, the elth sevice provider is rimbursed a set fee per
covered person that entitles eah coveaed perso in a given catchmet ae to any quantity of health services
prmcrbd by the halth cato provie over a prdefined period of tme. lbe fee is adjusted perodically based on
a fixd fonula wbich tkes into account chnes n the wholesdo pnce index and indices for relate inputs.



35 -
of afffliated members of the social seuity system1; and (e) quanttaive inicato  to
measure the effect of altenaive delivery and financing models. These sudies would be
lmplemnted  joindy by the CCSS Financial Mae     and Igated Health Care
Comples with the s a    of consu          duing   fIs 18 montis of prjec
i etation. D      egoans q.v0ua  mW  gbtad that th CM             old: i
pd                                the existing afiternaeiw dellvezyndadve  w iAnc   models.
t be copled no lat t    Demnber 31 . 1995: i) Aiu toe    ann  
comkdmions a cg  ef the wdk ibts   m        dt                     s San
m9fiuaad  et the             le ftgnof eth Lk Wmssalenven 
orl mmed I&ar Au  thepan. 8. 1 (h).
4.24.  M9    D: Pilot TsX o Alyh  Eing ad
Medvi (s ($0.5 million including con      c). In oIder to improve the efficieny
and eqiy of the cur   resource allocation and budetn   systm, ths sub-component
would dedgn, tes, and examine the possibiliy of expanding alernatve financing models to
allocate and ltansfer resources to all levels of care, including private providers, using the
results of the review of existing ahlernave models (pam 4.23). It would ensme that health
ce pwvers comply with the implcit contcts that wil be ente  into duig the tansfer
of resources between the Financial Complex, the Intgrted Helth Care Complex, and the
dduld providers (paias. 4.64.7); and develop altative administration sysems for
condauy and triary level hospitals. These altatives would promote the involvement of
the pdivate sector, cooperaives, and mixed systems descbed in Annex 4, Section C, by
inreasg the autonomy and fleblity available to tansfer resorces between the CCSS and
tse alterave systems. The project would finance the cost of carrying out the pilot
cises, inclUdiing 136 peron-moths of techical asstanc, reurt incrmt costs,
and evaton sdies. The design of the pilot tests would be based on the tdies to be
conducted during the first eightee months of the project (see pam. 4.23 above and Annex 4,
Section E).
4.25. Thre wld three groups of pilot test, one each at the primary level and the teidlay
level, an one across an integrted health area. At the prinary level, the pilot would test
resource  lcation mechanisms and complementuy control measures (Annex 4, pam. 26).
The pilot would be implemented in (a) an uwban cooperaive clinic, (b) a CCSS uman clinic,
(c) a nra CCSS clinic, and (d) a private clinic. At the tertay   level, the pilot would be
implemented in the Naional Chil's Hospital and would test a resource allocation system
which will utiie DRG meas for hospil and emergency room procedur  as the primary
method to charge for rendered services; this billing and payment system would apply to
either publc or ptivate health care provion. In addihton, the impac of co-payment and full-
cost pncing for selected services would be tested. At the IntegatedE Health Area level,
which would condst of health centers, cinics, and secondary and teriary hospitals in the
Alajuela province, the pilot would test a range of altematives related to resource allocation
mechanisms (identfied above) and reforms in the orpnization and amnsrtoof a health
care system, including refonns in the referral system and in hospital adminisrt   (Annex
1V In particular, this MIS module woldd allow the CCSS to develop a cental registry of members insured direcy
(trough pyroll contributions) and indiredy (ie., by the Stte); this would improe the CCSS's capac ity t: (I)
dstiguish between different groups of beneficiaces (salaried wodrrs, Pensn, epr d, poor, eto.); and (u)
vreify entitlent to ceti limiaccess benefits ouch as fth cice of delivety sysems (e.g., prvte physicians).



- 36 -
4, pans. 37-38). Dining  nteoa     wn        re obaned tat:  l t  dasign f 
.gUM  Qtt   atatemative |ok& °i _eIkmm                          be redan
ad   upon dng the  id-tem rei. S1W te (CCS        d furish to the  auk the fial
deco  An the alot tets ad an apto Via no AM       J.    and "I  p
the action   o.asa   to th Ran  (pam. 8.1)).
Component 4: Natonl Health Survlan, ad Qualt Control LAboratory
(US$1.2 milLion, or 3.8% of total cost including contingencies)
4.26. Under this component, the project would uPPOrt the stghening of the Costa Rican
institute of Scientfic Research and Teaching of Nutition and Health Sciences (INCTANSA)
in order to develop a National Health Surveillance and Qualiy Conol Laboratory ("Nationa
Laboratory"). INCIENSA is a well-known research and teaching intion in Lain
America; it is an autonomous instite whoe main role cumetly is to develop post-grduate
teaching proms and conduct research in health and nutriti. INCENSA has also
conducted major basic research and sudies jointly with or resarch intutns in Ln
America and in the USA as well as quality control test of food and drugs for the MOH,
CCSS, and the private sector. With the refrms of the MOH, the rle and funcdons of
NCIENSA would be rviewed to transfor i it into a National ealth Surveillance and
Qualiy Control Laboratory, to support t' , MOH in its normative, aditation, andt
regulatory functions. The projet would suot   a sudy to develop specific
recommendations for traDsforming INCENSA into a national istution and laboatory for
Health Survellanc and Quality Control, responsible for the early detection of biological,
chemical, envionmental and psycho-social risk facts, as well as for the quality control of
biologic products and drugs produced in pblic and private laboratories, licensing Of Iport
and export of biologic poducts, and analysi and control of food and dnrgs. The project
would provide support for civil work (b on of about 1000 square meters to expand
the main laboratories), and atou 40 person-months of interatonal and local consultants to
aniayze prospects regading ICIENc SA's futu  funto  and role. The study would be
managed by INCIENSA under TOYRs reviewed by the Bank at appraisal and considered
satisfactory. These comprise: (a) examiig INCIENSA's curent sts, mandate, and
types, contents and reance of reseach and tachig prgams; (b) idein g current
reseach, teaching and community activities which would be transferred to the University of
Costa Rica or other situtions; (c) improving existing cost-recovery mechanisms which
would allow INCIENSA to retain and reinvest resouroes obtained from service fees by
examing legal and instiutional consaints _r    financial resource genetion an
udliation and producing recommendations (cunrnntly funds obtained from service cha-,.a
are returned to the MOP); and (d) providing recommendations and an action plan on
INCIBNSA's futu  mandate, role, org aional structre, staffing pattern, priority
progams, and its reltonhip with the MOH and other national and interational
&Fgl  II.  D8e=Aam   ass we -were obudned at the (joyenu rent
,INCIEA . would: (i) carr out the study on the    Mt Ka Naonal Healeh
SiMMce and  uafy   Control &or-to. to be comnpeed no 1aer dn June 30. 1995:
WID hndsh to the Bank. prmp    pn i conketon. a coy of the study for its review: f11
and  a's  mmeno ater    O           r 1. 1995: ay) InplMMent the action p lan. and (vy
mn.1(    ClEj)).{th a &M        C.ns. and st lag  *-=a tothe           (ra.



-37 -
Component S. Poject Coordination Uit
(US$ 2.4 million, or 7.5 percent of total cost including contingencies)
4.27. The PCU would be rponsible for toecnical and fnancial m ent of the projet.
The PCU would have a Diretor General, appointed by and repoing diectly to the
Excutive President of the CCSS. As prject coodinao, the Drector Geneal would
ovenee the impl n of bothe IDB and the Bank-financed prqjects (the CCSS
coordinates MOH's health sector refotm financed by the IDB loan, pam. 1.5). Under the
Director General, there would be a Project Director, also appointed by the Executive
President of the CCSS, responsible for the administton and mle ion of the Bank
project. The Project Diector would coordnate project impemenion within the CCSS,
with other Govemment agencies, and with private providers that may be involved in the
project fom time to time, as well as with the Bank. The Project Director would be assisted
by two unit Coordinators in charge of institonal development and of aministration and
fiance. The PCU woud comprise a total of six semor level professionals, one technical
staff on stics and dat processing, and four senior secretarie (see Annex 7 for deailed
TORs). The major finctons of the PCU would be to: (a) faciltte project implementation
by wog in close coordination with the  Iplementing divisions, and oversee the
Implementation of the varous components; (b) in particular, monitor progress of the
nstittonal development compone  in both the CCSS and INCIENSA; and (c) supeise the
implementation of the tramining program and procurement activities and coordinate the
financia flow and project implemention. To perform the above functions, a system for
control and evaluation Of              n was developed during preparation and
reviewed and found saisfctory at apptisal;h this system would be used for periodic
reportig to the Govemnment and the Bank (agred indicators listed in Annex 8, Table 1) and
would also ensue formuation and testig of the QA system for the health services (para.
4.16). The PCU would produce semi-anmual progress reports on the project in June and
Decmber of each year, includig fincial repors of expenditues and reimbursements
rqured by the Bank  It woul also be responsible for the ornizaon and coordinaton of,
and prepartion of required  cumeaion for, the anmual view meetings (pam. 6.1), for
carying out the mid-term review (pa. 6.5) and for the prparation of the Project
Completion Report (PCR). During negotiatons, the Government furnished satisfactory
eidence that the CCSS had formally established the Project Coordination Unit and appointed
the Director General and the Project Director, satisfactory to the Bank. In additon to its
managerial responsibiliti, the PCU would receive guidance from and act as secretary to the
Central Coordating Commitee, which has already been created by the Government to
ene coordiation of the sector reform prgram and monitor progress made duing its
implemention; the Cental Coordiating Committee is comprised of the Miister of
Planning, Minister of Health, and Executive President of the CCSS. A Technical
Coodnation Committee composed of the Managers of the three CCSS Complexes and of
Diector of the MOR would be created to monitor project activities while ensuing
coordination  within the CCSS and with the IlDB financial management unit.  Dunn
negotsaons. a    s  were obtained that te CCSS would. w klaer han Jne 30. 1994:
and B       writs and or  eor azsgn an fl      evelopment a    spdaie s, an
W Propuear de dn Satna pww   Conro y Ehvuad6n de la Fjeacd& del Proyecto, May 1993.



- 38 -
nmgWt. a pbi health Mlaedg. a procurement aedai. ad g szno. all
mm            s and zUMdM  ud*um to d             (pane. 8.1(k)).
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT
A. Project Cost
5.1.  The tot prect cost,   uding phid  ad price coigencies, and taxes aad duties
Of US$1.4 million, is tmd at about US$32.0 million equivalent, of which an estimaed
US$11.0 mMion (or 34%) would be foreig exchange. Investment costs amount to 79
percent of bas costs and icmental tcrt costs amount to 21 percent of bae coss.
Proect costs were estmatd at May 1993 prce levels and incxle phyial contingnes of S
percent for medical epmet and studie. Price con         were calculaed at 1.2
perent for 1994, 2.4 percent for 1995, 3.2 percen for 1996, and 3.4 percent for 1997
accorin to the Bank's estmaed Index of Unit Value of Man      Exports, April 1993.
These rates were applied to both loca alnd foreign costs, as periodic cunfncy rate
adjust t based upon purcaM power parit would compnsate for the difference
between projected U.S. dollu inflation and local imfation rates (Annex 9 con   d   deailed
project costs as detemined at app-isal).
Project Cost Summary
(in US$ million)
Local Foreig  Tow
Ihvestment Costs
A. Civil Work                                  1.1    0.3    1.4
B. Equpmt                                      1.3    5.3    6.6
C. Tech. Assistance & Studies                  5.4    2.9    8.3
D. Tritingff                                   5.0    1.5    6.5
E. Publicatons & Manuals                       0.5    0.1    0.6
F. Reassigmenof Staff                          0.2    0.0    0.2
Subtotal                                      13.5   10.1   23.6
Recurrent Costs
A. Human Resources                             5.2    0.0    5.2
B. Mainec                                      0.3    0.1    0.4
C. Other Operating Costs                       0.7    0.2    0.9
Subtotal                                       6.2    0.3    6.5
Total Baseline Costs                                19.7   10.4  30.1
Physical Cotigences                            0.4    0.3    0.7
Price                                          0.9    0.3    1.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSIS                                 21.0   11.0   32.0
5.2.  Estmatd             costs for the CCSS warehouse and cinica labotoies are
based on wit pcs derived from currt contas and cost analyses for similar stadards of



- 39 -
cnstruction in San Jos6. Etmatd uit costs of medical, odontologioal and offie
eqipment anre based on prices quoted in neent     compeive bids. Etimates for
te1nical        and studies are based on current rates for local nd foreign exper. Cost
estimats for ftaining, salares, tvel allowa  and other opeating costs ae based on
curet costs or costng smndards used by CCSS.
B.          ml ReauTnt Costs
5.3.  Duwing the implemen   period, the prject would add a ttal of about US$6.9
million to the recurmt expdu    budget of the CCSS. Annual incremental opering
costs geraed by the proect am estma   at US$3.2 million during the lat year of
plementation of the project. The icremental recut costs would be generted by: (a)
salary supplems to be prvided to medical pson   that would be tnferred, under the
proposed reform, from the MOB (which has a lower salaty scale) to the CCSS (para. 4.15);
(b) hiig of phyins, pharmcists, nutionists and health technicia  and  xiliaries
needed to adequaely staff the primary care health centers under the rdefined health cae
model (paras. 4.14-4.15); (c) maintenance of medical and office equipnt acquired under
the project; and (d) opegtig costs related to project coordiaon  i  enai.   e
above menIoned annual incremental costs in the ast year of the project represent 2.7 percent
of the esimated 1997 CCSS budget in 1993 prices, a small ince   that should be easly
absrbed by CCSS. Costs for transfer of staff and incment staff would be inclued under
Government counterpart financng.
Reenmut Cost Pianing
(In US$ millions)
1994  1995  1996  1997 Toal
Total Cost           0.3   1.1  2.3   3.2   6.9
Bank Financing       0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.8
Goverment Financing  0.0   0.9   2.1   3.1   6.1
5.4.  This increase would be jusdfied on the grounds of improved health seavices delivery
to be achieved under the project; however, signfficant savings are also eted to result
from the imple mnai-on of alteative semvice delivery models and co-payments, ises in
CCSS revenues and increase in efficiency (paIas. 4.18-4.24). Indeed, one of the main
objectives of the pwposed project is to stengthen the financial positon of the CCSS by
improving premium collections, fiding alteative sources of financing, and  tionaing
expendituey s. Furthrmore, the project would support structurl changes that are expected to
have major fiancial (as well as quaHtve) bendeial effects on the health system which
shoud contn  well beyond the project period (paras. 7.2-7.4 and Annex 4).
C. Fnancing Plan
5.5.  The prposed lo  of US$22.0 miion would finance about 69 percent of project
costs, net of axes and dutes. Ibe loan would finance 100 perent of foreig exchange
and 52 percent of local expenditures. Tis level of local expendie fiancing



-40 -
is justfied because it will cover mosdy expendies for technical assisane and training -
aras in wbich highly qualified local rewurces are avaiable and no greater benefits could be
obtned by contacting these services ineionally; fiither, the arges share of loca
exptues would fiance the implementation of te rdefined primaiy healt care model
($10.4 million without contingencies, see Annex 9, page 1), which was designed and would
coniue to be developed by local consultants. Loan financing of recurrent costs would be
minimal and would cover eealy expntures related to preject monhoring and
administaton (pam. 5.3). For the fwrst year of the project, the CCSS would finance 100
percent of the GovernmentlCCSS contibution of US$1.7 milLion. In subsequent years of the
projet, the CCSS and Government conributions would amount to, rspectively: US$3.5
milion and US$0.7 million in Year 2; US$0.7 million and US$0.4 million in Year 3; and
US$2.9 million and US$0.1 million in Year 4. In addition, the Govemment would cover the
costs of operaing health centers and health posts to be ranfdbned from the MOH to the
CCSS (pam. 4.11). This additional contributon is esmated at US$3.4 million in Year 2,
US$8.5 million in Year 3, and US$15.5 miUlion in Year 4 and thereafer. The
Government/CCSS annual commitments would be rviewed as part of the annual
implemenation reviews and monitored through semi-annual report provided by the PCU
(para. 4.27).
(in US$ mions)
Loc  Foreign Tot
Bankc Financing          11.0  11.0  22.0
Govenmnent/CCSS Financing 10.0   0.0   10.0
Total                    21.0   11.0  32.0
D. Procurement
5.6. The Bank recently conducted a review of Costa Rica's procurement procedures (Costa
Rica Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), November 1992), whose findings are
as follows. Costa Rica's procurement procedures are embodied in the Financial
Administration Law (Ley de la AdnWstrdn Fincera de la RepiJhica No. 1279) daed
April 30, 1951, its Pruement Regulations (Reglamento de la Conaadn AdMisva,
No. 7576-l) dated October 26, 1977, and other subsequent specific laws. The Financial
Administraton Law embraces public compedtive bidding as the preferred procedure for
contracing. Except for some few aspects related to the procurement of work under ICB
and to the employment of consultants, Costa Rica's procurement laws and regulaions involve
procedures which are generally tnspare  and compatible with Bank procurement policies
and guidelines. With the exception of delays multing from bidders' representations (mostly
due to unfiliarity with the provisions of Bank Loan Agreements or to inability to comply
with bid specifications, no major problems have been encountered in implementing Bank
projects. Procurement provisions described below have been adjusted to match the CPAR's
recommendations with the following special provisions regrding ICB and LCB procedures.
During negotatons agremeg was reached wth the Govermnent and CCSS that: (U) for



-41 -
ICR. Wa bids woldno he- ,me!ctd on the svn*ndw- dha th W~ faloasde agi-etn
brado itl &ers WA Ngu kg*ed to s-  tlshfi
is  howt t  rea             Qf dem          lDv ocal banks or by e Initito Q
de &gAmw: and IN) Lor   god LO, -or cMc gf civi wpso ath AMEMeM  oy
worss, ilab    m c     $qtry MQ to       S; thel 'Ib  zap         o    prce
ObWMM p s   u   a m p. 8.20b).
5.7.  Procurment for civil works, goods and sevices would be done in accordance with
Bank Guidens for Procuement of Goods and Wois (May 1992). D^8 ag          .
agmen was readied Wt t   omen and CCSS tdat: i) al rgpcareme  QC Aod
and iEn*! siect to ICR wou  be done uig the ak          i      g
ad  al rwider LCR wuld  ib done u     sd   bddig d                   z
w=*&Osk toik.hat (pana. 8.2(c)). s a -gndition      a effiess,t  Go m
w&  AAM        t the Am& aag&f  dawo -m  gl Cgaonw  B8-t
iadif.acw         & B an Om. 8.4(e)). All  ent wil be canied out by the CCSS and
INCENA. Although these agencies have experi8ene on procurement, given that this is its
fi opeto with the Bank, the CCSS has agBe to hire a pIrurement consultant familiar
with Bank proce es, to be located in the PCU. Project cost breakdowns by pr ement
method are sumarm ed in the table on the folowing page.
5.8.  cmix  Wis. One centml CCSS warehouse and laboratories of INCENSA would be
iqaied and bfuibisbed. Local Competiive Bidding (LCB) pedures, acceptable to the
R%k would be used for tese rpair works estimated to cost US$1,500,000. No ICB for
civ wors is epected under the project.



- 42 -
Methds by Catwry
(in US$ million)
~  Procurement Method    INon
Category                                          Dank-      Total
ICB      LCB      Other     F d
Civil Works                               1.5                             1.5
(0.8)                          (0.8)
Equipmet and Furnitur           5.3       1.4     O.St                    7.2
(3.6)    (1.0)   (0.4)                  (5.0)
Studies and Technical                             9.6                     9.6
Assisanc, PCU"                                  (9.6)                  (9.6)
Training frogramsW'                               4.9                     4.9
(4.4)                  (4.4)
FellowshipsW#                                      1.5                    1.5
(1.3)                  (1.3)
Printg of Training                                O.Sy                    0.5
Materials and Mauals                            (0.5)                  (0-5)
Incemt Operating Costs"                           1.0                     1.0
(0.4)                  (0.4)
Incremental Salaries                                           5.8        5.8
for new stafW'                                               (0.0)      (0.0)
TOTALS       5.3      2.9    18.0          5.8       32.0
(3.6)    (1.8)   (16.6)      (0.0)      (22.0)
Notes: Figures in parentheses are amounts estimated to be financed by the Bank.
s, Inludes consultants' contatu for the PCU
i- includes US$4.9 milion for training programs and courses for Redefned Primay Health
Care Component. Fellowships for CCSS Management and technical staff.
£' Not involving prcemn
gI Includes salary supplemets for staff transferred from MOH to CCSS
i' Shopping.
5.9.             Unles otherwise agreed by the Bank, computer equipment, including
software and maintence, and medical equipment would be procured through ICB. To the
extent pracdcable, the p ment of medical equipment would be done by grouping the
various equipment/matedal items in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$250,000 or more per bid package to encourage greater supplier interest. Purnitre and
equipment valued at US$50,000 or more but less than US$250,000 would be procured
thrwgh LCB pcedues acetable to the Bank, up to an aggregate value of US$1.4 million.
Cont  for funiture and other equipment valued at less than US$50,000 and not exceeding
US$0.5 million in agrate, would be awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotatins obtained from at least three eligible suppliers. Under ICB, domestic and regional
manuafacu    members of the Central American Common Market would be granted a
margin of preference of 15% or the amount of custom duties and impoxt taxes, whichever is
smaler, for puiposes of bid evaluation, in accordance with Bank guidelines.



-43 -
5.10.      &-of lrL ag MatQr  iuMamuhs, Cotacts for printing of training
matris and manuas valued at US$50,000 or lw wol be done through local shopping
proceduras, up to an aggregate of US$0.5 million. When the cost exceeds US$50,000, LCQ
procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used, a}though neither LCB nor ICB is expected.
5.11.          . The selecion and pointmt of individual osultas and consuling
finns for tecnical assistance and studies would be consis  with the August 1981
Guidlines for the Use of Consults by Wold Ak Borres. During appraisal, the
Bank reviewed the timetables for contatng the consultants and perfoming the studies
proposed under the proect's tecni  asdssa    aciviti and found tm  satsatry. For
lager time-based contracts, the Bank's stadad form of conta  woud be used. In
addition, dw8n negosdM. agrgM   w  readied with ke Govemnent and CCSS on
model lters gt&£dgZ. Mk pm   MWOnMon  ,and ad  -km  t mu= -fr
cndsi            (pan. t.2(d)).
5.12. Edr&Beiew. All biding documents, evalution repos and cots for ICB
proement of goods, the first LCB for civfl wodr, and the first LCD for goods, regardless
of vahle, and ctscts for studies with consltant firms above US$50,000, would be subject
to prior rview by the Bank. For such conrac below US$50,000, the Bank would rview
the TORs. Ex-post review of contas disbursed agaist Statment of Ex      (SOBs)
would be conducted during field supervson on the basis of random sampling. The proposed
pror review  an     s cover about 75 percent of the value of items involving
procurement, in accordance with the procurement table. Activities to be financed by the
Bank which would not involve pocuement inclide pre- and in-service Daining, staff
reassignment costs, inemental salaries for new staff, and o g  expendit   for up to
an aggregate amount of US$2.5 million.
E. Di9bmt_
5.13. The project closing date would be Ja"iary 31, 1999 and the completon date July 31,
1998. The proceeds of the loan would be disbrsed over a five-year period as follows: (a)
civil works, 50 percent of expendi   for the rhabilitation of one central warehouse and
labbo ries in INCINSA; (b) medicl and office e ment, 70 percent of eligible
expenditures; (c) technical  ,ast , consul   servis, and studies, 100 percent; (d)
taining of health, manial and technical staff, 90 percent of total expendi; (e)
priing of rining maters and mamnals, 100 percent of totl eendirs; and (f)
maintenance of equipment prcred under the poect (medical nd comuens) and ote
incremental operating costs such as travel epenses for project supervision and office supplies
for the PCU at a rate of 100 percent for expenses incurred through June 30, 1995, 75
percent from July 1, 1995 through June 30, 1996, 50 percen frm July 1, 1996 through Jw
30, 1997, and 25 percent for the remnder. To facilite projec start-up activities, such as
those related to implementation of the proposed redefined health care model in the Huetar
Norte regon, contcig of techical assistance, and civil works, the Bank would authorz
rrctive financing of up to US$1.0 milLon equivalent to help cover eligible start-up
expenditures made on or after June 1, 1993 (incuding project at, training,
mobilikatin funding for pilot schemes, and technical assistance), which would repesent
4.5% of the loan amount.



-44 -
5.14. Disursements would be ad    t by the PCU. Proceeds of the prposed loan
would be dsured against withdrawal applicato  to be fully documented for contcts
valued at more than US$200,000 equivalent for goods and civil wodks, and US$50,000
equivalent for consults. Conrts below this amount and all incremental oeting
expendues woud be disbursed ginst prentato of Stateme  of Epntre (SOBS),
for which the suppotg dumena   would be reined by the PCU for periodic
npecion by the Bank and by exteral adors. In ore to failtate project
implementaon, the Gov        wod set up a Special Account in US dollars in the Ceal
Bank with an initial deposit of US$1.4 million. Doumentatio    is for the Specal
Account are the same as for other disbursem   except that in addition, a copy of the lat
bank statement from the institution holding the Special Account, as eonled  by the
Govement, would be firnished with all reqests for  l    .  As a coads     r la=
eXt dse Gover wos dign to the fk  cee dw the
ha been           (pa. 8.4(0).
F. Acennting and Auditig
5.15. The CCSS would establish and maintain separate project acowunts and records for
project expn rs. TMe PCU wauld maintain a consolidatd account of all expendir
under the project.  ese accouns would oe audited annually by indnt adrs, in
accordae with approprite aung pinciples, with TORs approved by the Bank. The
audit reports, which would include a sepate opinio on the adequacy of Statements of
Thxpditure (SODs) and on the Special Account, would be forwarded to the Bank no lat
than six montfs after the end of each fiscal year.
G. Readins for Project Imp     atn
5.16. The project was preared over a one-year period by Costa Rican working groups
oranized for this task, assted by consultas funded by the PanAmerican Health
Organizato and the Japanese Grant Ageement Periodic Bank prparation mso
rviewed the progress of preparation and provided inputs to the local groups. The redefined
heal care model has been developed and presented, descrbing methodologies followed for
deterination of national priority dseases and programs and for assessig health condiions
and priorities at the local level. In each of the seven regimo, heath areas have been deined
with ndaion of specific filities and heal teams that will provie services in a
coordinated fashion. The CCSS has already undertken a review to determine new personnel
needs in the project areas and the number and type of existing staff that would be reasdgned
within them. Government commitent has been evident though the early prewation of
technical papers and of terms of reference for each of the components (available in the
project documents file, Annex 14) and through a safisactory Healt Sector Policy Statement
(Annex 1).
5.17. All elements for the immediate implementation of the project are in place: the public
sector reform has alredy begun, i oag recommendations agreed under SAL m, and
the IDB loan supporting reform in the MOH has already been signed. As shown in Annex
13, Pnqject Implementation Schedule, a number of start-up studies and measurss are already
or will soon be underway (which would be financed under retoactive financing, para. 5.13),
and disursements are expected to occur quickly, paicularly for instiuional s ng,



-45 -
implemenion of the redeined primary health care model, and studies which would form
the basis of furfter reform measures under the project.
VI I1MPLEMEINTATION, MANAGEMENT, 8U ION AND EVALUATON
A. Projed Plannng and Im _untato
6.1.  The prepattion of anual plans for each of the project components and major sub-
componen  by the CCSS centl office and/or the regional offices, but in any case
consolidated by the centdal CCSS office, will be the main instument for supervision sad
evalution of the project. Plans for the firt year of the project wete reviewed at appraisal
and found satsfatory. During the annual reviews, which would take place no later than
July 15 of each year, startng in 1995, to enable incorporation of project activities in the
budget for the following year, plans of action regarding each of the project components
would be reviewed, and remedial action or changes agreed upon with the government as
necessury; also, progress made in the actions and policies identified m the scior policy
staement included in Annex 1 would be assessed. Dung the annual reviews, progress in
eah component would be evaluated on the basis of monitoring indicaton (Annexes 8 and
11). A subset of key project implemeon indicators was agreed to during negodtaons.
Each of the CCSS divisions responsible for implementing the respective components would
maintain a record of the actual perfonnance of key indicaton, and the information would be
fed to a computeized system of progress reporting which would be kept by the PCU. On
the basis of the yearly prgress reports and Government-Bank reviews, each division
reponsble for one or more components would prepare anmual work plans and budgets for
the following year, incorporating, as appropriate, recommended remedial actions. The
second amnual view in 1996 would be the mid-term review (pam. 6.5). D g
negaions. assuranwes were obtained tht the CCSS and the Govenment would: (M)
andk anual proJect  plemtion reviews no later than uly 31 of each ear. smating
in 195. inddng but no mibed to. the folowing: fal progress in project imp tao
4zc,a,hng to an aBreed set of key monitoriag  dators  T mpl on of seor
olWAc: fc analsis of the Dreout year's pefonnance: Mdl reuew Qf work plan and bu4re
for the Iowing Mearm and fel mosn   roject desggn. if needed. to a4jwt to
s cr=wnstances., di) fiiah to the    for Its approval a proposed an
frpementation plan for the  cong yar. i.= luding acivitdes to be Ilemned in each
wpp~n and their restve costs. no later than Au=ust 31 of each year (iii) fAish to
e Bank smi-ann reports in June and December of each year: and (iv) gnrepare the
ELQ1IId CAMPL/do epr (pam. 8.1(1)).
6.2.  Overall resposbility for project management would lie with the PCU (composition,
functions and rsponsibilites of the PCU are described in pam. 4.27, with details provided in
Annex 7).
B. Supervision Strateg
6.3.  The proposed project would rquire about 23 saffweeks of supervision per year. The
supevision team would be carefully planned, and would be a combination of Bank staff and
consltant with speidalties in social security, insdtional development, management



-46 -
information, health care financing, and alternative model of provision of health cane, and
p lanaceutcal and medical swppes systm   Supersion missions would be timed so that
each year a mission woud visit Costa Rica in July to participate in the anwal  views and
agree on the plan of action for folowing f     year and the budget (CCSS' budget cycle
requires submission of budget rquests by the end of August each year). Bank supe on
would be coplemented by a Bank/Govement mid-term review scheduled for July 1996
(pan. 6.5) that would include seveal qeciasts in fields appwpate to the r es of
the prqject at that tme. For these acvies, an addonal 10 staffweeb would be planned.
A Supvision Plan has been developed (Anex 11).
C. Monitring and Evaluation
6.4. ITe PCU, with the assistance of local conts, would be responsible for
monitoig and evaluation of all project components, using proes, result and impact
diators for each project component, presented In Annex 8. Data for periodic calculaim
of process indicators would be obtaned thwough the information system of CCSS and special
surveys to be conductd by regional offices. Beides the original agreed indcators in the
document 'SYstema de Control y Eftuaci6n del Pryeo (Mayo 1993)" and summarizd in
Annex 8, addiol indicators uncovered during project implm on would be discussed
during the annual and mid-tem reviews and added as a hppte for selected sarvice
componens designed to effect improvemens on the healfth of commuies.  ealth and
demognphy infonnation from existing naional systems and pecial surveys would be usd to
aculbte impact indiato. The focus of the evaluadon at the national level would be in the
pret's contribuon to achieving a shift in health delivery from input-based to outcome and
tput-based plang. At the regional and local levels, the emphasis of the evaon
would be on its usefuliess for      -I and decision-makdng and resniveness to local
needs. A Quality Assme system will be developed for these purposes and is descibed in
pan. 4.15.
6.5.  A Md-Term Reviw scheduled for July, 1996, consisting of Goverment and Bank
p       tes would assess progess of policy and insution  reform, resu  of pilot
testn and steps toward expansion of new modalities of service provimion and financing, as
well as findings and   ons  of sdies and posible appication. In addition to all
items normaly covered during the annual reviews, the mid-term review would focus on: (a)
review of progress made in the implmntation of estucturing of the CCSS and its impact
on strengtheningthe decentla-tio lprocess; (b) the resuls of the stdis on altmadive
delivery and financing mod  d the design of the pilot tes; (c) inmact of the redefibed
prinary health care model on the effciency, qualty and equity i the delivery of health care
servies; (d) progress in the implementIatio of (i) the MIS at the ceunil and regional levels
and (I) the pbnning, selecion and procurement of pharmaceutical and medical supplis
system and the prescrion and use of drugs; and (e) the funoning of the Human
Rores Developmet Fd  and the PCU performance. The PCU would be responsible for
preparing the TORs for the mid-term review based on the above aspects, which ane described
in more detail in Annex 11. The TORs would be furnished to the Bank for review and the
PCM would prpare the repomt after the compleion of the reiew. On the basis of th
review, the Bank  d the CCSS wouMd agee on adjustments to proiect deign and
imple lentaon as ncessary. M gfoi  asss  wre obta  dp de
ov nmnt. CM, andeRank o    conrt joal an n-dt md-enn rmew in J.



- 47 -
41fk ter,m  f MUM  sAs           ao  to theak. Bank udgbt kg  gibMite to: V
DmmV   In MWk iuncuinth CMSS (II IWmat gfthe re_- ne_ WMa1 health care awdeLs
-Mi)pio tes&&n ofkmf atent  modeLs ef helth car pMvLvon. fl) gprogs in
A lM= ane    es elMe  Im an       d of     epL     as a resut ef h anu  ad mid-
MMn revlewA    m m In               ofgc exect  Is not coa dred s fdt  Gouqrment
and CCSS would take d    t      Lacton as aed with th Bank (PaM  8.1(m)).
VIL BENEI   AND RIlSS
7.1.  Ovwa  8mfe. By suptg cridca policy and institu l  frms and
redfidng the primary heal ca  deiveiy system, te prject would help improve the
efficny of reource use ad mobiliatn, enhac the qualy of seres, and streng
e capai*y of the sytem to respond more dffectively to the emern het needs of the
ppulation. Improving the eficincy ad qualiy of an integrated heath services netwoik
would conute  to reducing morty and morbidt  from chrnic diseases and ijries
whie attending to the primar healt car neds of under-served popultons, paricularly
pregnanand lactaig women nd their childr  i remote eas. Fter, impoved
reue mobilitn and resouwe alocation would lad to net savings that could be used to
eXpand hath servicamong th indigent populto ad help eure the ftre fiail
sabilt of the CCSS (pas. 2.14, 4.19-4.23). The poject would pave the way for
inreased prvat sector paricpation in the         md delivery of health services both
at the local level,    gh pot Usting of saive models, and i   oy  in the CCSS,
by       finania a nDd sevmice dlWe  functions.
7.2.  Projet Ecoomic Beneits. Th majority of the refrms in the pposed project aim
at icasg the dficiency of the Costa Rican health cuae system. Usig simple
asmptios, it is tberfore posible to calculat cetain benefits that can be realy and
appropriately esimated in monetay terms: (a) improved resource m    resuing
fm  eductions in evasio and increased fficiecy in colectim  of socia    ry premiums
and fom increased revemnes from the full-cost pricing of private services provided in CCSS
facies; (b) increased effidency in resource utilition though a redefined pimary healh
care model and alternative modes of car prvison; (c) impwved resource utilization in the
p            sub-sector, and (d) cost saving resuling from a redefined primary heal
care mode  d nimproved incefntives for prvides to conin costs at all levels of care. Two
additia measures dt would provide economic benefits, although they cannot be estmated
ex ante, are: (a) encouraging an actve private sector role will reduce the burden on the
publc sector, and (b) deasing the essivdy long waitig time will lower the opportnty
cost for the poorer members of the popDation who seek cae in the pubic sector.
7.3.  With regard to improved resource mobi , the project's financial componen
aims at reducing the incentiv  to evade so curity contiutd    whle concently
dsyms to improve the auding and collectin fions dof the CCSS. While the
cost of implemeng these measures cannot yet be ascetined, using a range of amption
(nchding, Inter alta, the disount rat and the initial evasion rate, see Annex 4), it is
possible to estimate tat the addin  revenue genweed by these measres would be
betwee US$9 and US$33 million per year. In additon, a fee system which better



-48 -
approxiates the os of dt       non-isred pate   and acvely collec for src
redered to priae pates would contribute an es_mated additnal US$S to 15 mili  per
year. Th second catgory results frm           in t  primary healt care model and
the          of altraive models of senrices delivy, e.g., the cooperav model.
Using the coopadve model as a benchmark, it is estiaed that this will reduce the unit
cost of pviing primy hea  care by 30 peent. The tbird category of benefts aris
frm  imptoved resoune ud don in the             sbsector.  he preee wull provide
for Impved hentory mt which will result in a yeady saving of US$400,000.
While it is more difficult to derive quanttaive sst o the las categ, cod savip
for the pmay thugh tetiay  vels, the proect's redeind prmay healt care model and
the pilot financing schemes, which aim at Improving finac  resorc allocati, wi rsl
in grater dffn  in the use of costly ipt at hospbi  and clnics becau  planig and
budget  will play a more prominent role in the proc.
7.4.  The composents of the poposed pqet have been designed to impwove the efficiy
and quality of the devery and fancing of health cane serc. And while it is difficult to
estmate an quatify  es             , this section nweehe   prvides an ex ante
esmate of the long-tm econo   beneis of the project. Even under a conserate
assumption that if only 50% of the losses an elimintd (see Table below and Annex 4,
Table 5), the moneuay beneft would amout to aproxaly US$40 mlion (or roghy
10 perent of curm-nt CCSS aedo) afker thre yea, significanty mom than total
-c cost.
sftiated EoowmIc B        ftom Sdected Pojeed   t
(US$ milliom)
Pa_  Saig ('A redu icti in ieda        )
Ar of Economic LAo     Totl Lx      Low (20%)    M.dh.(50%)W    No(s(0)
Contbutozy Easion            39.4           9.8         23.4           33.0
Dltr  Pymen                  27.0         5.4           13             21.5
R_ofmd PIC_ M*              71.5            1.S          3.6           6.0
0.4          0.08          0.2           0.32
14.3         16.78         40.7          0.82
Notw: See Annex 4 for detid annotatca.
7.5.  The main rida  the cowlexy of the  fom  and their long-term hozon, with
full imp h takting place after a new govemen  installe; th faile to m;ae
difficult deisions involved in modifying the fUDions and rsosilies of the Fnci
Magme  COMPe to genert addiioa resource, imve deficincy, ad devolve
CCSS finances to the region  levvel; and ly, a lack of exeien  in  Pl tBank-
funded projects. Most of these risks bh   been (and will con e to be) atinatd by th
Bank's close involvemen in the formuaion of the reforms and the stgig of semis with
high-level officials and rep ves from vadous poliical parties to discs the piject.
Furthemoe, the fac  instability ad       enc  would be exaceatd if e prposed
reforms are not implemented. The drs  would also be minimized by the Ba' close
supvisi  at te differe   g  of prct iplemeon, inshtiuo of a mid-tm  review



.49 -
by the Govermmt an the Bank, and tecncal asstance to assist I im
including taining, partlrly for managers wbo have the task of implementing the reforms.
7.6.  EuvtIonmat Rating. The proect would include a study and technical assistance
to find solutiom for safe elimination of chemical products and phacials. The project
b maed Category C.
7.7.  Nogram Objectiv Catgores. The project would address poverty issues mainly
through two components: (a) the redefined prmary bhe   care model would allow for health
care provion better suited to loca epidemiological and social conditions, which would have
immediate and significant effects in poor and/or remote areas; and (b) improve the CCSS'
capacit for resource mobflization, which would be used to increase and expand health
services to the poor and idigent population.     of the implementation of the Bank
proect, in coordination with the IIDB loaL, has aleady enabled the Govemment to transer
fuds to cover the cost of health care for the indigent as part of its Health Sector Reform
(pas. 2.14(b)).
YI AGREE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1.  Ding negotations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a)   CCSS would: (i) carry out the study of the existing CCSS Managent
information System no later than September 30, 1994; (ii) frish to the Bank
an action plan no later than November 30, 1994; and (iii) implement the action
plan in a manner satisf y to the Bank (pam. 4.8);
(b)   CCSS would: (i) complete the Manpower Study at the centml and regional
offices no later tan September 30, 1994; (ii) reach agreement with the Bank
on an action plan, including timetable, no later an November 30, 1994; and
(iii) implement the action plan, satisfmy to the Bank (pan. 4.9(b));
(c)   CCSS would opera  and maintain the Human Resources Development Fund
with staffng, optional ndes and procedures, fmncing, and fimding
selection criteria satisfactory to the Bank (pam. 4.10);
(d)   CCSS would: (i) fundish to the Bank a final report on the activities regardig
the pharmaceutca and medical supplies system no later than June 30, 1995,
discuss its findings and recommendations during the first annual review; (ii)
furnsh to the Bank an action plan incorporating the recommendations and
Bank comments no later than October 1, 1995; and (iii) implement the acion
plan, satactory to the Bank (pam. 4.12(a));
(e)   CCSS would: (1) complete the study on secondary and teria  levels of care
not later than December 31, 1996; (ii) prepare an action plan, including
timetable, to be agreed with the Bank no later than March 30, 1997; and (iii)
implementthe acton pla, satisbctory to the Bank (pam. 4.17);



(D)  (i) the studies on tesource mobiiatio and fincial stability of the CCSS
would be compleftd no later th  June 30, 1995; (i) their tesults and
recommendations would be discussed wth the Bank during the first annal
rw; (ni) an action plan, including tmetable, aisfactory to the Bank would
be furised to the Bank no laterhan October 1, 1995; and (iv) the CCSS
would implement the action plan in a manner satstory to the Bank (paom
4.21);
(g)  the Govement would tnsfer to CCSS the necessary funds to cover the
health costs of the indigents in accorce with a medodology satsfaoy to
the Bank (para. 4.22);
(h)   CCSS would: (i) conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the exsting
alerative delivety and finaning models, to be completed no later than
December 31, 1995; (ii) fmnish to the Bank, promptly upon its compltion, a
copy of the study for its commens; and (ii) incrporte the rest and
recommendations of the study into the design of the pilot test of aleratve
and administation mechanisms, satisfactory to the Bank (pam.
4.23);
(J)  (i) the design of the pilot tests of aleative fhancing and administation
mechanisms would be reviewed and agreed upon during the mid-term rview;
(i) the CCSS would furnish to the Bank the final decision on the pilot tests
and an action plan no later than July 31, 1996; and (iii) implement the action
plan, saisacty to the Bank (pam. 4.25);
fj) the Govenment, through INCIENSA, would: (i) carry out the study on the
development of a Natonal Health SurveiSlance and Quality Contol
Laboatory, to be completed no lat than June 30, 1995; (i) furnish to the
Bnk pmmpty upon its compeon, a copy of the study for its review; (iii)
furnish to the Bank an action plan based on the re    and   omme
of the study and Bank's comments no later than October 1, 1995; (iv)
impeIment the action plan; and (v) maintain NCIENNSA with a structure,
fouctions, and staffing saisfacry to the Bank (paa. 4.26);
(k)   CCSS would, no later than June 30, 1994: (i) employ or assign coonators
for the lnstiutonl Development and the Administraion and Fmance units;
and (i) employ or assign an institutional deveopment speialst, an economist,
a public health speci, a puent speciali, and a suervision officer,
all with q        and experience satsactory to the Bank (pam. 4.27);
(1)   CCSS and the Government would: (i) undertak annual project
impmenaon  views no later than July 31 of each year, smating in 1995,
including but no limited to, the following: [a) progress in project
implementatin according to an agreed set of key monioring iators; 
impleientation of sector poliies-; [c analysis of the previous ye's
performance; tdl review of work plan and budget for the following year, and
[el modiicaons in project desgn, if needed, to adjust to changing



-S 1-
(fi) ffrni8sh to the Bank for its approval a proposed amual
Implmenttio pln for Xh upcoming year, incluing acivie to be
Implemnted in ech component and their resecve costs, no lar than
Aust 31 of each year, (i) fumish to the Bank semi-anmual mxtt in JU
and Dcember of each year, and (lv) prpar th Prjec Complo Report
(pua. 6.1); and
(m)  the Govemet and the Bank would conduct jointy an in-de   mid-term
review in July, 1996, under terms of _fece  ysaisao  to the Batik,
including but not limited to: (i) progrs in     the CCSS; (i)
impac of the rdined pimay heah care model; (ii) pilot teng of
alternative modes of health care provision; (iv) progress in implemenation of
the MIS and of the phamaceutical system; and (v) functioning of the Human
Resuces Development Fund and of the PCU. If, as a result of the annual
and mid-term reviews, progress in project execution is not considered
saisfctoy, the Government and CCSS would take adeque remedial action
as agreed with the Bank (pan. 6.5).
1.2.  During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Govermment and CCSS:
(a)   on: (i) the proposal for the insdtutional restructuring of the CCSS; (ii) the
terms of reference for the design of the opemtional stucture, functions, and
staffing patterns for each of the Integated Health Care, Pensions, and
Financial Management Complexes, including the identification of norms,
procedures, and pority operational manuals needed to implement the reforms;
(iii) the role and functions of the Board of Directors and the Executive
Ptesident; and (iv) the prepamtion of an institutional development plan for the
implementation of instutonal reforms in the CCSS, including timetable (parm.
4.7);
(b) (i) for ICB, [a] bids would not be rejected on the grounds that they fall outside
a pre-determined bncket and lb] foreign bidders would be permitted to submit
bid securities from foreign srties without the requrment of endobsement by
local banks or by the Insdnao Nacional de Seguros; and (ii) for ICB and LCB,
for coutcts of civil woks or the pueme of works, sitable mechanisms,
saisfactory to the Bank, would be aLlowed providing for price adjustment
formulas to relect increased costs (pan. 5.6);
(c)   that (i) all pemet of goods and civil work subject to ICB would be
done usig the Bank standard bidding documents; and (i) all pu
under LC   would be done udsg standard bidding docume sasfcoy to the
Bank (pam. 5.7); and
(d)   on model lems of Invitaion, Supplemental infmaton, and stdad form of
otmcts for indvidual consul   (Pam S.11).



-52 -
8.3.  PrIor to Board prntatio, tho Govemet h      edb    a saticto    ded Picy
Latr (p. 2.18).
8.4.  As conditlons of loan effectIves:
(a)   CCSS would fbrulsh to the Bank the CCSS insttutona developmat puant
inclding tranig prgrm  for snlor and m    manag   dity Involvd
in ti4pleenaio ofthe resln 1oftheCCSS   andtimetale for
ImlmnttIn pam. 4.7);
(b)   the Govenmnt and CCSS would:- (i) famish to the Bank a tmebound
progam, satsacoy to the Bank, providing for [al the eablin of the
baic het tams and (bI the ot     of hah   ters and healft pos fro
the MOB to the CCSS, togeh  with the tsfer of approxq may 1,700
MOH heth poand auly peoel; and (1i) have tabm all
necosay acon, lud   eacent of leilton and lssuc   of
mpladon to authowin the    f         of the abow progam (pan. 4.15);
(c)   the Govemen  an CCSS would  rnish to the Bank an ageemen betwe
the CCSS and the Mistry of FinaE, to  ale the emxch    of tax, socal
seuiy   and inoome noratdon (pars. 4.20(b));
(d)  the Governmen  and CCSS would faM  to the Bank a satsf y sged
Subidiary Ag       betwe  the MOP and the CCSS, prviding for. () the
transfer of the Bank lo  proceeds from th GOwerme  to CCSS; and (I)
arrangementsfo r the anedlai  of the ounding deb of te Goveamt
with CCS ad the Govenment's commtmeon that future debt related to the
fnncn of the SIM progm  of te CCSS would not be incurred (pan.
4.22);
(e)   the Govrnment would frnishb to the Bank sndard bidding doumet for
LOca Copetitiv Biddin, sahtisactoy to the Bank (pars. 5.7); and
(f)   the Govement would furnib to the Ban evide that the Speca Acot
has bee established (pam 5.14).
8.5.  The followlag would be conditions for db en
(a)   for computer hadwae, aeement with  e Govemen would haw been
readhed on the action plan and a timetable fbr mpl dmnon of a now CCSS
Mi     n t In aon System (pa. 4.8);
(b)   for human reres deelpent acdvides, th CCSS would have esabshd
the  umn Reue D lpnt Fd p a. 4.10); and
(c)   for quipmt under eh -   lod Pmaq Rysalth Cae Mode and Qualty
Assurance suboe  ns in eac respective health area: (I) aLI heath cente
and pos   oWod hv been trnsfrrd to the CCSS; (ii, JA basic hea teams



53 -
would have boe establidhed and fblly operationa; and (ill) the CCSS would
have fU and excluive control over the       of public health services
(pa. 4.16).
8.6.  The folowing would constitute evens of default:
(a) the Bank would not have received by July 31, 1996, evidence showing that the
Boirower has enacted legidadon, and repuations theeto, adoptig a
comprehensive mlatory framework for private sector paicipation in the
proviW      of health cae services, all satifctozy to the Bank, and that such
legsai  and reguln are in ful forme and efect (pam. 2.18(d)); and
(b)  the time-bound program for the trnfe of healh centers and posts and the
establishment of basic heat teams would not have been implementd in
accordac with its tms and conditions (pan. 4.15).
8.7.  Rcm_. Subject to the above coons and assuane, the project would
consitute a sitable Lais for a Bank loan of US$22 milion equivalent to the Reublic of
Cota Rica for a term of 17 years including a gmace per:od of four yeam, at the Bank's
stndard variable interest rate.



-54 -
COSTA RICA
HEALTH SECIOR REFORM -
SOCIAL SECUlUrY SYSTEM PROEBCT
ANNEXES
1.   Healh Sector Policy Statm
2.   Health Sector Data
3.   The Health System
4.    Fnacing of ealth Sevices
S.    Redeind Pimary Heath Care Model
6.    Pilot Testing of Fi     Ateatives
7.    Projedct Co    n Unit
8.   Monitoring and Evaluatn: Key Indicatos
9.    Seected Dead Project Cost Table
10.     I     I    
11.   Supevion Plan
12.  Matics of Issues and Poblicy Actions and Linges to Pwject Components
13.  Project             Scheu
14.   Selcted Documes in Project Files



- 55 -
Ths pagp let blank]
i
i
l1 i
t' :
l 



0 56-
COSTA RICA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM -
SOCAL SECURITY SYSTEM PROJECT
HEALT2 SECTOR POLICY STATEMENT
San lose, Costa Rica
September 13, 1993
Mr. Lews Preston
Prndn
Ihe World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washngton, D.C., 20433
Dea Mr. Preston:
In refeauco to the poject tat the Govemmen of Costa Rica is in the process of
ageeng with the World Bank for the rfom of the health sector, I am  Wad to convey to you
the bckgound, objeoves and _mtegy of the poliical and instonal refm  in this
sector.
The Goverment's Pblcdles
Since 1982 Costa Rica has oriented its gowth sategy from imporbsiu    to
an outward odented stateg. Since we iated our din 1990, we bave
daWned dtt the initiated reforms must be canied out and further consolidated so that they
can pwvide a solid base for coniued and equiable development into the next centuy.
Keeping this goal in mind, the current Govemnment development stategy focusses on:
(a) aelating integration into the wodd economy; (b) restructurin the public sect to
impre is efficiency, strenghen ts fici bas nd reoruiet it away frm actvite ta
ca be card ou moe efficny by the private sectr (c) improving efficiency and
competition in labor, tfanncal and&capial makets; (d) improving in--structure and
enanghg pivate senor invsinm  to accelerat growth and diversify *be ecO-nomy's
export base; (e) channelng social spending and progfams to Ihose in greate8t new, while
Smrving coverage and efliency; and (f) provifdng strog prtection to its naurnl
resources.
Ibakgound onl the Heallh Sector
In the 1940s the Costa Rican Goverment undertook social reforms orientd toward
commuty well-beng which included the enatment of social warranties, the labor code and
the ceati  of the Social Suriky System (Capa COWMime  de 5egw8   Sdil - CCSS) to
prothct the work force in the lower income brckets.



- 57 -
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 1
HEAIALH SECTOR RFOiRM -                   Page 2 of 11
SOCIAL SECURIT SYSTEM PROJECT
For ever decades, investmeatin socua and economic programs to prtect and
benfi the undepdvied groups received a high goverment priority. The expanson of
eath cae was one of the most important elemens in this strategy. In the 1970s the county
prepared its first Health Plan with objectives of preventive actions and universal coverag.
Laws were passed by Congress to transfer all hospitals from the Mlinistiy of Health
(MOW) and other public entities to the CCSS; the MOH stil retned responibility for
providing primay can services in rura aas and to low income individuals, as well as for
seveal preventive programs including nutrition and vector control. Our Govermment is
proud to note that the health system perfonned with a high degree of effectiveness.
Indeed, key healt indicators still place Costa Rica in a highly advantageous position
compared to other counties in the Latin America Region, (with Costa Rica exhibiting infant
moritaly raes as low 13.2 per 1,000 and life expectancy - estimated for 1990-94 - of 75
years. Hwever, in recent years, a number of inefficiencies have arisen in utilizadon
patt    from distortions in both the supply and demand for services, including the increased
complidty of the health technology and changes in the epidemiologic profile as a result of
population aging. Our government is curfenty focusing all its effmts on the need for
cowfctions given that, in spite of increased healft expendires, 1 7 percent of the populabon
is not covered with adequate medical care.
Pkroblen and Challenges of the Bealh Sector in Costa Rica
The health sector in Costa Rica faces several problems and challenges that our
Govemment is prepred to address, such as scarcites in physical, fimancial and manpower
resources and deficiencies in the supply and logistics system, which have led to a
deteriortion in the q'iality of the services rendered. One of the deficiencies in the system is
the uneven distibuton of the medicl and nursing personnel and deterioton of primary
health care facilities (particulady those located outside the main cities, where it is more
difficult to attract qualified permnnel). This siuaton has been aggavated by demographic
factors including popuon growth and nmal-to-urban migration. The outpatient came system
has reached a cdsis state, with long queues to see a doctor or to obtain medicines; this has
given a stmong signa on the need of major health sector reforn.
Several studies undertaen highlight a number of inefficiencies in the financing of the
CCSS. In particular, the financial stability of the Sickness and Matemity Program (SEM), I
which admniste  the provision of health services, is jeopaldized by loopholes in the payroll
collection system for health insunce, and long delays in reimbursements from the Central
Govemment to the CCSS for expenses incurred in providing free services to the indigent
populaton. There is a need to adjust and improve the collection of charges for services to
the uninsued so that fees adequately reflect the benefits provided by the Social Security
System, and to estmate more precisely the cost of health services provided to the indigent
popuaon. Expenditures in medical services are expected to continue to rise in coming
years. There will be increases in the demand for more and better quality services;
expendits will be fueled by nrsimg incomes and higher costs of treatments, because of a
heavier burden of chnic conditions among the older population. Additionally, the



-58 -
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 1
HEaALTH SECTOR REXFORM -                  Page 3 of 11
SOCIAL SECURrIY SYSTEM PROJECr
unregulated expansion of the pnvate sector may intoduce new distordons in the health care
market if appropriate Govenment  ulation is not instituted. We plan to ace these
callenges through the program of health sector reform.
The problems just mentioned require to incase adm a ive e ncy, elminate
duplications of programs, and reduce superfluous spendg; improve human capital to deliver
healt car services of high quality; expand coverage, and produce changes in the
adminitation and mangagent of health sector institutions and programs, thrwugh the
adoption of alternaive models of health care delivery and finning. These cbanges
rpesent the first step of a long-term public sector modeization  rategy, which should
result in a more efficient and stronger health sector and greater benefits to all cidzen.
Health Policies and Strategies
As part of our long-term satec perecdve of public sector reform, the
Govemment has made a flrm commitment to improve the efficiency, effectivenes, equity
and quality of health services, as well as to increase the coverage to low-income uninsured
groups, within the constraifts of available public resources. A HEa  Sector Reform Pln
that was approved by the Council of Government in March, 1993, entted PL= lacatd
Rna del Sector Sadud - LkfreamiEnao: doeal, includes reorgnization of the
MOH to assume a ladership role in defining policy, prority programs and in monitoring
and ,valuating resource use in the health sector. The Plan also proposes a rig  of
the CCSS to assme the role of adminisg the delivery of th  services, and providing
those services both directly and tugh contacting of non-government groups such as
coperatives and pnvate providers. Puhermo, it emphases the eqwrement of
establishing regulaons and quality contol of the services, particularly those to be provided
though third parties. Better resurce allocation and refinements in the balance and
productivity of heal resources could inmrove care in both medical and economic terms.
Additionally, a larger participation of the private health sector should increase competition
and theeby increase efficiency and improve qualty. ITis could evetally free up
Governuint resources which would be used to take care of the public bealh problems.
The main objecdives of the Govement policy on health sector reform are to: (a)
stengthen the MOH to assume a leadeship in the health sector regarding policies, norms
and regulations, as well as the control of investments and evalaon of programs on health
and enviromental conditons; (b) plmace fu responsiblit for the adminison of health
services with the CCSS, aiming at integaion of curaive, preventive and rehabilitation
services, thus preventing duplications; (c) decentralize functions to improve administaton
and local level sevces; (d) develop new models of health financing involvig private third
prties as service providers and new paterns of admin on (including improvements in
budetay prces); and (e) apply a redefined model of health and medical care to
hidividuals and families that takes into accout national health priorites, but is adaptable to
local epidemiologic conditions. These objectives are in line with the Government
commitment to deliver high quality seris which are affordable and accessible to the entie
popuaion. urthermore, they will allow the Govement to espond to inreased medical
demand resuling from expanded coverage of the poor, rig incomes, use of



-59-
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 1
HEAlTh SEBCTOR RERIFOR  -                 Page 4 of 11
SOCLAL SECURITY SYSTEM PROJECT
tenlogicaly advanced equipment, increases in the number of eldey people, and shuft n
the epidmkological profile frm a high prevalence of comuicable diseases to chrnic
conditions and  d .
The Restructuring of the Ministy of Health
Ihe MOH will be restuctured and s       to asume its 8le as leading agency
in planning, policy, reguation, contol and evaluation. The process of transfeing the
responsibiy of pwvision of health care svices frm the MOH to the CCSS, the
regionaizaton and de   lization of        t and fiane functions, together with the
sten g of local health systems (redefined prmay health care model), will undr
the reform. The Geneal Health Iaw   cuffendy beng revised and updated in acdance
with the new functons and --structu , in order to provide a legl ftamework
that will enable the MOH to conduct its rgltory and   itio  cons regrding
public and private health services.
A first sep in the realigment of the health sector o Ito  has been the fonmal
establishment of the inter-instituonal MOHICCSS Council to cordinae the design,
implemtation of policies and piority prgrams, and operns of the nation  health
system; this Council will follow regulations and guideines issued by the MOH and the
National Sectorial Council, formed by the Ministers of National Planning and Economic
licies, Health and the Executive Pesidets of the CCSS and the Water and Sewage
Agencies. During this stage, the folong actions will take place: (a) review of the
organizational and opeq nl structwre of the MOH to assume is leadeship role and desgn
of new o          and op nal stuctus, saffing pats and priority pams; (b)
review of the legal framework, esecally the Ley General de Salud, the Lry OCgw  del
M. 'iteo de Sld and the Ley Consudwha de la C4Ja Costeiw de Segpro Soat,
which Mmn the mandate of the MOH, and sewval additional dec    peraing to provsion
of health care and opertion of healh care services; (c) strengthng the Costa Rica Health
and Nutition Reseatch Institute to become National Quality Control and Health Surveilance
Laboatoy; and (d) design of a methodology to define curent and futue human rsources
needs for the entire health sector.
The above refoms will be suported under the recony apprved InerAmerican
DevelopMent Bank (IDE) loan for US$42 million, out of a total prject cost of US$60
million to finance the restructuring and strengg of the MOH. Ihis lon will finance, 
Iner alla, the csuction of the Alajuela Hospitl and 119 compsive health posts and
centers which will be transferred to the CCSS for the  on of health care service to the,
ente poplaton.
In adton to the 1DB loan, the Ceral Americ  Bank for Economic Integration
(1CE) approved another loan for the   u o of health service infnse in the
Huar Atlintica Region which was damaged during the 1991 e



-60 
COSTA RICA                           ANNBX 1
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM -                     page 5 of 11
SOCAL SECURrrY SYSTEM PROJBCT
tructuring of the Caa Co      ar       do Sgro  Soda (CCSS)
The frmework of CCSS entited vei FEwdonal x   ueniW      la CCS, reviewed
by the Bank in May 1993, deines the polcy-maling level of the CCSS Board of Dirts
and Excutive Predt, as wll as die administv ve and ma        leves for he cenr
and regional offices.
in ufillment of the princile of goveme         on, many of the
programming and budgetng fucin wi be delegated to the CCSS regional
levels. This, the CCSS wil be restructured acording to the prposed  tnal pf
Into three complex  to increase greatr tan    in the use of reources, wlich would
fimcton under the normati  guidance of CCSS' Board of Directon: (a) Integated Health
Care; () Pension; nd (c) Financial Mana e   The implemention of the instituton2l
rsucrin d ofthe CCSS will be asisted by the pposed Realth Sector Reform - Social
Seuity System Project recently negotated with the World Bank. ITh struc   and
functions of each of these sstems are described below.
At the Poli  Level, the Board of D ors wfll be rsonsible for: (a) defig
polcis and stategies that will guide the Implemntation of te activites in each of te
comple; and to prpate t  revisio of fte  y Cotsdwa de la CIa Costanicn  de
&Swv Soial, which wil allow tlie CCSS to implement the proposed reforms in a speedy
maner O(b) monitor and evaluae the impact of these polcies and sategie in rton to
staed objectives; (c) ensue that the respecdve adiisrtons of the three systems ae
puided by prvailing legislation; and (d) perform control and auditing functons to esure that
fnds from vais sources are used for the established purposes, thus prventing cross
subids among the complees.
he Inegated lealth Cal Complex will admiister health service delivr8y and
allied systems necessary to make this Complex self-sufcent (this includes plaing,
budng, mn c, training,    ment information system, p                    and
equpment pocurement and distribution). Itw  adminster finawial resources in accordance
with anna opetional plans, folowing financial policies established by the decision-ming
level.
The Pedons Complx wll admster the Disabilky, Old Age and Lfe Inrance
Progams (PYM) of the CCSS. It will be resonsible for: (a) allocadng fina ncia rources
to fund the benefit prvided by its three prras - disabilty payments, employee penons,
and life insurance indemnities; and (b) payment of health care services for pensioners. The
Penslons Complex will also be responsible for moniong and evaluatig the use of rsources
for each of its three progams, both at centrl and  gional leveL To that extent, the prqject
wll strength  this level of management as well as provide for the esablishment of
seialiZed units in plaming and prping budget and the repecdve prgams.
ITe F    al Mana         Complex will establish seclized units for the
administra-    of the network Of CCSS' financia services,  i  ,   r alia, te
instiional teasuy. Furthemoe, it will be resonsible for tansferng resoures to the



-61 -
COSTA MICA                           ANNEX 1
HEALTfI SECTOR REORM -                     Paep 6 of 11
SOCIAL SECURrff SYSTEM PROET
comlex  dealing with Pedons andlItegrtd Health Sevice, for ter nonmalop
and for contracting seic. Addionay, it wi  cole  prema for CCSS' Pensions nd
gea  sysm, it wll admwster invstme   of the Penion fs, and it wi ensure th
the reues wil be eficienly alcated
Regional Admin II aIon
lhe Goverme  believes in the need to actdvely enye, witn the framework of
the Ste reorm program, the poe  of               of services, gn them the
necssy financ sor   and alwing th regioa levels to e*y great autnomy
regrding admInistration of resources, coogent with the prposed redefinkit  of the healh
care mode, which is based on the ceation of heal are  that will operate as geographic and
dinistrtive units of services.
In order to launch this process, CCSS' Board of Director ageed, in its sssion
#6734 of Jun 24, 1993 (through atice 2), to create an ad hoc Cmmisdon which will
anayze and detmne the direction of CCSS'   ttd Sa Ss Cossio,
assised by technical conslancy sevc  in the ara of    0         Development, should
present its fnal repot within the nest six months.
It is  ctedat as a result of this work and within the implem   phase of this
roject he  systms will consolidate and achWe adme and financial self-
sufficiency, prsving the pri  of instutional unity.
ManagemenT inforiton System  m)
Instiuons in the Costa Rican health sector will face, as a res  of the Govemmet
reform progam, rhanges in their peraons, polcies, and         processes. Ihe
cena Minstay, for example, will need to strgthen its policy fomuatio, pwgram desin,
montoring and evalaion capabities, while gradually phasing out its opratonal  le in
healM care delivery.
Executin agenci  (CCSS central, regonal and local office, an eventally the
privat sector) will need to      their m         an      ional cqa ties to match
their inceaied autmy  and a    abyin the povision of services. Te qulty of
ifomsi on systems will be a key sccess factor in efecting these changes. The Gov er t
rens  the imporce of an MIS whi will facilitDte the flow of info ion not only
withhe ns        , but also among them, incbdng the misy of Finance and the
CCSS. The iformatin  ysems for the heal sector will be designed under an overl
system in close coiati  between the 1DB and Bank proects.
The objectves putsued, which go far beyond the gpadual prcuement and insalat
of compuers in the sectr       i The MS is viewed as an entre progam to reform
admisend  ad  nmmfe   soclo   q .ai



- 62 -
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 1
HEALTH S13SECTOR REFORM -                 Page 7 of 11
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM PROJECT
The most important aspct of this strategy in the case of the CCSS will be analyzd
in a study that will be completd by September 30, 1994. Once this study h completd, we
will presen to the Bank, by November 30, 1994, a plan of action that will take into account
the foowing consideons
(a)  Up-front planng, anlyses and designs neessy to ensure long-tem
integration of the MIS and technolo  will be done during the fist phase of
prjc Imupleme ntat i on.
The CCSS MIS and dataase wi  be desged in modules, and common systems
sch as budgeting, accounting, inventory contol, pwcu t, and mo
of key indicators needed for management decisions will be developed for all the
CCSS operaonal units according to a priority plan;
(b)  Implementation of the MIS system wi be phased with the evolving needs of the
CCSS and a timetable agreed with the Bank. This activity wil be considerd a
high priority for the s i g Of CCSS.
In successive phases, adionl subsystems will be added accoding to the needs
of the CCSS and its cental, regional and local levels; and
(c)  Susantial tin  of staff will be needed to adopt the technology and work
metods required by the new system.
Hma Rsurces Deveopment Progm
An essential ingredient of CCSS reform is the development of human resources needed
to guide and implement changes and to deliver efent and good quality health care
service.
A major revamping of the way staff taiing is conducted has been undertaken,
includg planing of training in relation to diverse regnl needs. As a bas for preparing
the taiing plan, a study of the human resources of the CCSS will be conducted and
complted before September 30, 1994.
The Bnk-financed project will spot two types of training:
(a)  tning for managers; and
(b)  training for technical staff with wide pa on of universities and other
national and intrnatonal instions.
These programs will be directed partiully to the change agents of the CCSS who are
directly responsible for the implementation of the reforms and the CCSS oertions. The
taning pogams will be co xdiat  with the Human Rewurces Development Plan to be
implemeted by the MOB under the project of MOH Instituonal Reforms.



-63 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX I
HEALIT  SECTOR REFORM -                    pag 8 of 11
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM PROJECT
lharmacumls and Medical Suppls
We    gnize te   d to im    e the plannng, budeg,sta selecion sand   
Of pham ua and medil    lies and to addrs issus that have boee  hg hd  by a
specil Evaluating Commission aointed as pat of the prprty  process of the Heat
Sector Reform. The following actions would be implemented to improve the siion:
(a)  meamu  to aver shortages in the docbks by desgin stock contudl  masm
which assure that new puzas  are based on consmptlo and edstig stocs;
(b)  anysis of exsting procedur  an nms for qualy control and adoption of
new mechanisms as appropriate;
(c)  development of s     tns and selecton criteri for media splies,
updatidg estg catalogs, ad prepation of tm  of referece and crite to
guide the evalation commitees; 
(d)               of the    uemet poe,   uding review of lgiation of
rement of pharm              by the CCSS; and
(e)  an analyds of cost-effective measu  for timely distribtion of dzugs and
medical splies to the cens for health ca  seri.
The CCSS will send to the Bank before June 30, 1995 a fnal rpt of activities
regarding the sstem of          and ditrfution Of phl prod     and before
October 1, 1995 it win peent a Plan of Action inco ng Bank comments.
Redelied Priary Hoealft Carn Model
A crit  ingredient of the Health Care Reform in Costa Rica has been the ddnon
and elabra    of a redefined model of prmary health cae based on prindples of univeral
oovenge, solidarity, equity and effiiency and on the establishet of health areas and basic
team  of comprehensive care (EAIS), which will ensure coverage of the entre populaio
Another conept is that the svices should be rponive to the  qd  g  and socal
conditios of the communty. To this end, ehustive l   of acceble clinic protocols,
ncoms and p lgmms have been developed, ad naDtioml priorities have been agreed upon
among e4e47ts from the MOH, CCSS and the UnW- '*. The model aims at: deliveng
comprehensive curative and preventive primary healI services in each locality, pwtcio  of
the family as the uni of health cae, continiy of doctors, imprved quality of sies as a
result of ddegaton of decisions to lower levels and competion among provide, hiceased
support and piipan of clients in the cootents and quality of seies, and e shment
Of epideoogic surveillance in each area. TIh keo         of service 
and budget processes are essenal for the applicato of ths redefind  modeL The CCSS
--hel  system comprises:



-64 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 1
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM -                     Page 9 of 11
SOCIAL SECURITf SYSTEM PROJECT
(a)              oftablihent of Sevelty four health areas and 700 basic teams for provision of
comprehensive health care (EBAIS). A pilot teing of this model is being
implemented   the Huetar Norte Region; basic health team  and referra systems
have been deied indicaig spfic clinics, hoal centers and hospitals that will
form a health area; stating in 1994, this system wil be expanded to other
regions in the country; and
(b)  With the changes in the roles of the MOH and the CCSS at a result of the
Health Sector Reform, about 1,700 staff will be transfered from the MOH to the
CCSS to work in the health areas, according to a tmeable of tansfer of staff
agreed under the IDB loan signed in Febniary 1993. Most of these staff are
already in the area but will need traing to perfotm their new functions as
establshed under the redefined Primary Health Care Model.
Quality Aumme
As part of the Reform, a system of Quality Assurance of health care services will be
implemented with indkators defined to measure outcomes of care. This system wil be
administeed by the CCSS to control te quality of services of its own hospitals and clinics,
as weUl as the sevce opemted by the private sector. To thds end, the MOH, as part as its
regultion and accreditaion fumctions  ading public and private health wervices, will be
responsible for the legal framework of the General Health Law to ensure the qualit of the
sevices. On its part, the CCSS has begun a sto  prgrm for development of human
resources geared to the establishment of a system of Quality Assurance, although the most
important step in this direction is the sneng of the model of primary health care tat
stratifies the provision of services into tree levels -primary through those of higest
-tmkmy.
CCSS Fancial                Reforms
Four areas wil receive attention under the modeniaon of Financial Managment in
the CCSS.
The fis se of actions is related to managent  ocaion and evaluation of the
resourcesI nd insiutional tesury, which indes the development of a budget expressed in
terms of programs that are output, resource and cost-related and of a complementary
monioring and evaluaton system which would alow the CCSS and progrdm directors to
match the e dS against defined targets and institutioal objectives. This program is
pait of the overall budgetng reform process that is being implemented by the CCSS.
The second set of actions refers to resource mobiliztion, which would consist mainly
of designing and implemeing new procedures and norms to reduce evasion and increase
conytbuo  contol, through improvements in collecidon and auditng functions, in order to
increase the eficiency and effectiveness of the curent CCSS revemne mobilizaion systems.
To this end, the CCSS will sign an agreement with the Minity of Fance for the exchange
of inforation on tax-payers between these two institions.



- 65 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX I
HEALTH SECTOR REUFORM -                  Page 10 of 11
SOCLAL SECURY SYSTEM PROJECT
The thitd gop  of actions would be to evauate the exsng altenatve health ca
provion models, such as coopeatives, Ibre elcd6n, meddna de enp    and medkina
. Ihe resuls of ths ealaton trgh pilot testing wil eable epason to nationa
covage.
The piklt tetng of albrnative health provision and financg models would serve to:
(a)  asses the possibilty of expanding altemaive financing models to allocate and
tansfer resour  in the entire primary level;
(b)  crete  mae ve ainistr  systems for seconduy and tiary hoIJs
through a           and self-muffi          -I model (this will be tsed
in the National Children's Hospital); and
(c)  evaluate a ag of aenative opDt   related to resource allocatio mechanm
and reforms in the orWnization and a _on of an integrated health
system, including reoms in the referal system and in hopital adm
This will be ted in the province of Ajuela, which is      e of the
health networki m the country. The above actions will have far-reaching
implits in rationalizing resources, insing dficenc and efficcy in
healh services, and stabilizg the CCSS.
The fourth goup of actio  refes to the f    sabily of CCSS. Ih 6rder to
Tand the covxage to  ose who cannot afford to pay for them, the Govenment will
tasfer resources from the Fondo de Agnados Fws¶ to meet toe  exp        . The
amounts estimated for the fiscal year 1994 has been esimated at US$48 million equivalent;
for subsequent years, the amounts to be transferred would be calclated on the basis of a
metodology agreed with the World Bak  Furthemore, the Goverment wil pay the
accumulated debt with the CCSS, which amounts to approximately US$135 million, through
traner of bonds and dgning of exen  loans for the sector. Also, the Goverment agrees
not to conta sir  debts in the future and for this purpose a legal covenant will be
presented to the Legislative Assembly.
OperatIo of the  lh   Sedctor Reform
The Health Sector Reform has received full support from Government and this is
demonstraed by the approval of the Reform Plan by the COUnCil of Government in March,
1993.
The costs of the Health Sector Reform should be amply offsae by the imprvemens in
dfiiency of the health services, and by the conso on in coverage, both thuugh the
publc and private sectors, to satisfy the in sng demand for services.
The s       and policies descibed in this letter constite an     deffort of
the Goverm        of Costa Rica to improve the level of living of the people and make possble
a transiti  toward a moden state and the contnaton of its democratic trdition.



-66 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 1
RHALIII SECTOR RBOPM -                    Page 11 af 11
SOCLAL SECURITY SYSTEM PROJEC
Ceumofldatieo tthe rovei of Refonu
in the bag trm, the process of rform that begs with ths proect wi eable t
consoldatn of the MOH as the nitun  sonsible for dictating poliy and legd norm
for th dev nt of guation, c              and evaluaton of the health services
rendred by the public and prve sectors. in tun, CCSS finanial    it   wil enable
to maintain com hnsive and sdinitively sef-sufficient heal cae services, thoug
the decen on and region n.
With kind regrs,
Sincrey,
Rae Ange CWdein Peourni
Ca"os Varas Pn                                        Cados Casm Chrpenter
Minister of Plaig and                                     Minister of Healh
Economic Polcies
Elias Jimnez FonPc
Execudve Preiden, CCSS
Note: Odginal let in Spa"is  n project files



- 67 -
COSTA RICA                      ANNEX2
HE0ALTH SBCTOR REIORM PROECT             page 1 of 8
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Graph 1. COMPARATW SOCIAL INDICATORS
COSTA RICA & SELECTED COUNTRI
1989
ChileO--; -.                   l.
75
COSTA RICA             i                            i     -
Poland             ,t-~1 
Mexico__                      _i 
Argentina                                                 T
Brazil
Urugay a_      
Portugal
Korea_
SpainM
0           20           40           60           80
*Life Expectancy  Infant Mortality
Notes:    Life Exectacy in years; Infant Mortality Rate (MR) per 1,000 live births;
Costa Rica IMR data from 1990.
Sources:    Wodd Bank, 1991; Conmisdn Inftducional, 1991.



-68 -
COSTA RICA                        ANNEX 2
IEALTH SBCTOR REFOIRM PROJECT               Page 2 of 8
SOCLAL SECURiTY SYSTEM COMPONENT
G0pb 2. CHANGES IN PER CAPITA CONSULTATIONS
REGULAR VS. EMERGENCY
1983 to 1990
1
0.25
-~~23
0-
6025-                                                
Q~~Nai   Re. -Hs.                              _ op     op      ag       ml
^~~Hop    Hosp    'P          P       PI   Clinic   Clnc
tQan. Reglar Consu.Honsp   Hos.eLrgecConSmallTOns
. .~ ~ ~ 1.
23 Regular Consultations fiEmergency Consultations|
Sources:    Anwlo Ewadt   de la CCSS, 1986&91.



.    |       .    g      .    8L  '~~~~~-M-   ---- - -- - ---
e_     _  __                        _ _E-_ _ __-- - - - - -_ _-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __-- -
E8  -91    ---:              Sl                -------E---
I sl <Il HH, eKIf
A       - .-                                       I-- ..-
---- - ---
-------------11 1 -- - - -    - ---- - -



- 70 - -
COSTA RICA                      ANNEX 2
HEALTH SBCTOR REPORM PROJECT             Page 4 of 8
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Mph 4. LEADING CAUSES OP MORTALTY
(Ra por 100,00)
1970                     1OW
Sou1es7CCS,P,~ue.a dRAdoen1
3# 7.11             114
Ocw_rm* Db     Ko*m           NaMWDa
source4   CCSS, Propwxau de    Mndel Modelo de Adn 1993.



- 71 -
COSTA RICA                         ANNEX 2
HE3ALIB SECTOR REPORM PROJECT                Page 5 of 8
SOCLAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Table 1. MOST FREQUENT CAJSES OF HOSPITAL DISCHARCIS
BY AGE GROUP AS PERCENAGE OF AGE GROUP
CAUSE           -       P-3RCB AGE OF AGE
GROUP
AGI  ZU  *907
Obst°ic Causes _                                27.0
Normal _v _                     _               21.2
AnDendioXis_______________     _          -           i4.5
Abortion                          ---            3.2
Other Osteomuscar           _                    2.4
2.4
Other Women's Health                             2.2
Ideinal and C__n_ _ _ T_um_                      2.1
Skin and Subcu_ _eous                            2.1
_      _e_ve  ,                                  2.0
Other                                           30.9
Obstetic Causes                                 34.5
N.Tonnal Delivery                               19.8
AborIion                                         15.1
Other Women's Health                             4.6
Other Osteomuscular                              1.8
Psychoses and Neuroses                            1.8
ilDigesdive                                       1.5
Apmdicitis                                        1.4
Inte}d and CrW Traumat                            1.2
I Vascular Trauma                                 1.2
fBeniignTumors                                    1.2
-Urinary Systm                                    1.1
_olelitiasis and Colecistis                       1.0
Indirect Obstetric Causes                         1.0
Otber                                           21.4
Is-ch_emic Heart Disease                         7.2
Eyv, Ear, and Mastoid                             S.9     -
Diab_ews                                         5.8
Other_Resp_tory            __                    4.7
Ma_i_ _      __t Tumors                          4.5
D_ _ti_                    __                    4.2
f _ _tensi _n                                    4.1
Ciratory. Pulmonary and Coonary                  4.0
Male Sexually Thnsmitted                         3.8
_Cerebrovascular         _,3.7
Ot     b      er S 51.2
Sources:    CCSS, Registtoo de Egr           de a CCSS, 199W



-72 -
COSTA RICA                        ANNEX 2
HEALTH SECTOR RE3FORM PROJECT               Page 6 of 8
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTW COMPONENT
Graph S. INFANT MORTALITY RATE, 1990
(per 1,000 iuve Births), 1990
& INCIDENCE OF PARASMfiC & INFE(TIOUS DISEASE
(per 1,000 Inlhtnts), 1984
25
-.- TEl                      18.2
16.4
X11-
I-
,6.6
11       -----
0
CENTRL CHOROTEGA PACIFIC   BRUNCA   HUETAR    HUETAR
CENTRAL             ATLANTIC   NORTH
linfant Mortlity Rate E Disease Rate
Sowces:  Miisty of Planng, Stfistics and Census Office, 1990. Pasitic and
Infectious Disease Data is based on information frm the MOH, 1990.



- 73 -
COSTA RICA                        ANNEX 2
HEALTH SECTOR REFPORM PROJBCT                Page 7 of 8
SOCIAL SBCURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Table 2. HEALTH PERSONNEL PER 1,000 POPULATON
POR SELECTED COUNTtIES
COUNTRY           PHYSICIANS        NW.RSEIS/AU A S
COSTA RICA                1.04                  2.22
Bolvia                    0.65                  0.44
Hondurs                   0.66                  1.49
Ecuador                   1.22                  1.64
E. Salvador              0.35                   1.75
Mex._o                    0.80                  1.14
Arentina        1         2.68                  1.19
Uruguay                   1.95                  5.29
Venezela         -        1.43                  2.71
0.93                  0.83
chule                    0.81                   2.70__
Sourcs:    World Bank, Publk HBwlsh in DPeyloping Counim, 1993.



-74 -
COSTA RICA                  ANNE 2
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJE          Page 8 of 8
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Graph 6. COMPARAIVE HEAL7TH SPENDING
COSTA RICA & SELECTD COUNTRIS: EALTH SPENDING
(AVERAGE IN DOLLARS, LATEST FIGURES 1985-1990)
U.S. 2, 16219
Canada      1,945    1,453
U.K.          1,039          ON
Spain            831         6ss
COSTA RICA                 15 1
Argentina                139
Mexico                132  88
Chile                100  72
Venezuela                 89  49
Colombia                  50 23
4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000
U Total Per Capita * Public Sector Per Cap.
Soiuves:   World Bank, World DAQ1mmERixt 1993.



-75 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNE( 3
}EaALTH SECTOR REFORM PRQIECT                  Page 1 of 8
SOCLAL SECUIUTY SYSTEM COMPONET
TIM HEALTH CARE, SYSTEM
A. Evolution of the }eah Sectw
1.        Prior to the 1940s, healh care in Costa Rica was largely provided by the
Ministry of Health, public charies, and the private agriual companies. In the 1940s,
Costa Rica made the polilical decision to redistribute part of the welf  gain   of economic
deveopmt to the enre populaion by i    n strongly in the sol secs. M
organization of the health sectr reflects this today, as 84 pecent of total health servioes are
publicly provided  rugh the Nationax Health Sydem. The rmning 16 perct of heal
sris are provided by the small, but growing private sector. The CCSS ben operatig
in 1941 as an autoomous institution aInisti  the social seurity insurance system. Its
health service covee exanded over time unl 1961, when a cositutionalamendment
mandated unisal coveage of health care. In 1971,  lais were passed which
required the CCSS to begin universal coverage by stages; the first step was taken in the late
1970s, when the Government integmted the naim's hoitals under the CCSS. Between
1974 and 1977, tansfer of aU MOH public and plpic hospals under the Juwn  de
Prtcd6n pgave the CCSS a monopoly over in-paent car.
2.        TIe economic crisis of the 1980s imposed severe limis on fiscal revenes,
tghteing the resouces available to the MOH and compelling an expansion in the role of the
CCSS in providing Pe-vi  to marinal    and uban populaDons. The CCSS now
prWoides discrete pevenve actions such as prenat and postatl care, immunizations, and
health education- with the rsut that there are duplicains with the provision of some MOB
srices. Attempts to correct tis thrugh local ntaton    services have reduced
infrasftucture costs but have not addred the main problem of faihure to coordine
3.       In 1990, the goverment began to explore possibilities for a comprehesve
overhal of the health sector whin the contet of the State Reform Pogram. An Evaluating
Commission appointed by the President of the CCSS studied the system and identfied key
problems. The resulting Health Sector Reform plan of March 1992 focuses mainly on
rdning the normative role of the MOH, reforming the admIn      stucue of CCSS as
the agency responsible for service provision, to allow regional    al i, aonalzing
the demand for sevkices, onsolidating health srvices, ntegat  preventive, promotive, and
rehabilitative care, and s ng the finaca base of the system. Investment in the
sector would be guided by a plan to allocate scarce resources within medical paametes
resulting from the demographic and pidemio1gical trans
B. Private Secto Provsion of Heath Services
4.        Legal constaints and the presn  of essentialy free universal health care
severely lmits the role of the private sector. However, incrsng dif   with the
public system has spred private sector gwth i recent year, as many middle and ev
low income families rsort to private medical practitioners. In the last five years private
scor heath servs have Increased fom 12.5 percet of aU visis to 16 pecei Th
private sector has a limited  tu for ot        serices, as well as for deliveries and



-76-
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECTOR RPFORtM P¶ROHICT                  Page 2 of 8
SOCAL SECUiQY SYSTEM COMPONENT
sdective surgry, conisdng of tre min cHinics locad centaly in San Jose with a total of
200 beds and of a network of small cnics located in both wban and nual reas. Anoter
s8r  of prvate health sies are the publc healt sector physicans which have their own
p1ctds 'after ham'. Official figures indae ft d$00-    docto  urnty working for
the CCSS maintn sepaate private piactces.1Y  Addly, the CCSS provides free clic
space in CCSS hospitals to about 200 physicians for their private prctces. This mode of
pivate provion is largely at the expnse of quality of care in the publc health system, since
physcins holding pdvate practice often shoTF their work day in the CCSS to attend to
their own clientele.
C. Publc Healt Sector Organiaio
S.        The health system consists prmarly of three orgaitions: the Ministry of
Health, the Caja Costaricense de Seguro Socid, and the National ns c InsXtt (INS).
These itutons control resetvey 12, 78, and 8 percent of public health care
resourcesY  Each of these instions is responsible for health services of differet levels
of complexky. Ihus, tte MOH provides primary and preventive health care, including
nutito progams, health promotion and education, disease prevention, and envirmnental
health; it is also chared with developig health sctor polcy and coorditng the delivery
of sevies. The CCSS d;s cumtive and high complexty health care thmough a
network of facilides that includes all of the nation's hospitals; the Sickness and Matenity
Proam (SW  also prvides       on   to the insured in the event of illness or
pregnancy. Finaly, the INS provides cash benefits as well as treatment and rehabilitaton for
tho  with occpational injuries and diseases, and for those injured in automobile accidents.
D. The Mnity of Health
6.         he role of MOH is todiect and coordinae the National Health System; in
addton, when in 1973-77 MOH transfered all hpitals to CCSS, it retained primary
resonslty for the delivery of preventive and basic healh care services through 61 health
centers and 379 halh outosts (Table 1). The health cents act as the basic adminive
units for the mobile heath teams, healh posts, nutrition ceers, and school clinics within a
y   defined region. The MOH also runs 500 community-level nutrition centers
which monir the nutritional stus of cildrn and provide food for malnourished families.
7.        In 1989 MOHs' Rumal Health progams were intded to cover 67 percent of the
population, of which 44 percent were in the lowest income group; and the Community Health
Progams were supposed to cover about 50 percent of the populton, of which about 71
percent were poor. However, the MOH network has had limtd success in meetng these
goals. The failure to target programs effectively means that higher-income groups benefit
dispootonately more than low-inoome people. In pardcular, the Food and Nutdtion
Tbis fiu may be sevly  d         On the bads of the number of phyib    adverising in the Costa
moan yeow pags t   may be as my a 1500 to 2000 phydcian practcing privately.
Y Waer nad swemp svioce provided by the Institult of Wter Supply and Seweage (ICAA) ac0ount for the
rm_der.



-77 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 3
HEALTH SBCTOR REFORM PROJBCT                    Page 3 of 8
SOCIAL SECURITY  SYSTEM COMPONINT
prorms mn by the MOE have been ciicized for mis->tg benefit to the better-off.
Bonk s         for 1986 show that most of the benits from these progms weo  mosty
concentad  on the 5-14 age group rather than the target popuao of 0-5. The MOB
sevices suffer from other deficinces as well: MOH ceners and posts have fallen behd
and can no longer respond to the demand for inh y more complex medial
intertenions; there are dupliations of series and infrastructure with CCSS; and MOB's
complex  uctu  has handicapped its capacity to pefodm its main funtionof developing
policy and norms and coorinating and giving general orienti  to the sector.
8.        MOH has six divisions - administrai, finance, :p:niolog,
healh, heath services and pharmacies, and prmary healt progms. However, seveal
otber un  witn the Ministy with diverse legal orins and vrig dege of autoomy
adminster resources frm a nmber of differe  sources. To futer complcate matters, the
yMisty mainis eit separate budgets. The reltig conui  regarding program
delivery and the lack of infomaion on costs and efficiency frUstes adminisative and
planning effors and conutes to wastefu duplication.
9.        As part of the pwposed sector refom, the Govanment has decided that MOB
should transfer to CCSS alH health  cilities and pesonnel still remaining under its
jurisdiction and resuctr its      ol structure to resume efrcdve policy and strateg
funcns. In addion, MOR would remain resxosile fbr preventive helt prgms and
lh edaucati. An IDB project, already apved, is iended to suyport these MOB
reorms whle adiaig structual and managria
E. Caja Cswksedo Squr Social
10.       The CCSS is composed of thbe main div      - Med, Admini, and
Financial - which administer jointly two major pgrams: (a) pension, under the Old Age,
Disabilit and Life Insumne Program (M; and (b) health cae, thro   the SW
Program. The remainder of the CCSS is a complcated web of departments, offices,
sections, ceders, clnics and hospital. The CCSS prvides about 85 percent of the health
sevices in the country under the SEM program. I ope s 29 hospitals in the fve  gions
and a network of 132 ciics (Table 1).
11.       The emasion of CCSS    r _  toincludethe provion of primar
health and preventive care (uposedly in arns where MOB serees leave a vacuum) has
neverdeles resutd in sigpficant ovedap. Effors to educe the costs of dupication by
making those MOH and CCSS units opering in the same areas share facilities have creaed
savings in  infrastructure and maintenance costs, but MOH and CCSS units have  ntoiained,
in lae pat, their nrective peomnel complement as wel as separmte regional speson,
management, and budgets. TIls not only duplcates admiistrve costs but also complicates
the coordination of sector activides.
12.       Seconday health care is provied at 132 clinics which deliver outpatient services
ranging from general medical services to some ambulatory srey and complex dignostc
procedures. These clinics vary widely in        and mnge of series available, from
Type 1 cliics, which have only one physian, to Type 4 clnics, which not only provide



-78 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECr                   Page 4 of 8
SOCLAL SECURITY SYSTIEM COMPONENT
ambulatory ca  in piatics, OB/GYN, inal medicine and sutgy, jut also provide cae
in a number of sub-specidales and have m iologiss and pharmacolos in the staff
(able 1).
13.       Tm tertiary health care system absorbs most of the physical rurces and
technology of the Costa Rican delivery system. There is a heavy conceon of health
facities of high comlexity in the Cental region which ha aUl of the natiol hosptals, 78
percent of all beds, and most of the more sopsated chnics (92 peret of Type 4 clinics
and 73 pecet of Type 3 clinics). Disregading this unven distribution, Costa Rica
compaes wel with other counties with ar. average of 3.41 hospital beds per 1,000
populaon. The 29 hospitals and 6,774 beds of the CCSS that make up this system are
divided further into he  levels of care.1 Thc 4tnplest hospitals in the teiary system are
the 14 perphea hospitals (haspials peirfcos), witn a wou of 1,050 beds (16 percent),
which provide primarly ambulaty services with beds available for simple cases such as
deliveries and patents waitng to be transferred to higher level insus (Table 2). The
peripheral hospia are further divided into three categories according to number of
specialties, beds, and physicians. Peiphel 1 (PI) hospas have less than 50 beds and
provide four basic aervices: prescriptions, basic ugery, regular gynecolog, and pediatics.
P2 hospitas have up to 100 beds, withi dmilar funtions as PI. Finally, P3 facilities add
some spcialty serices such as dermatoogy or orthopedics, and can have up to 200 beds
(Table 2).
14.       Th regional hospital fosm the ne  level of care in the tertiary system and
conain about 1,300, or 20 percent, of total beds. The regional hospitals operate as a cental
hospita in each region, providing specialties and sub-speclres not avaiable in local
hospitals. They are expected to receive 80 to 90 percen of referrals from the local hospitals.
15.       Ibe highest level of complexity corresponds to the nine national hospitals and
secaled hospitals, all loced in urban San J1s6. The naional hospits pvie hea
rey, ners ry, neoal care, radiois_ope theapy, oa trnsplants, etc., wodk also
as teaching hospitals and research facilities, and receive referrals from lower level faciities.
The scalzed hospitas provide care, either direcdly or through refermls fom lower
complexty faciles, in poditics, geriatrics, psychiatry and physical rabilitation.
Nationa and specaizod hospias' combined 4,260 beds represent 64 percent of all hospital
beds in the system.
16.       While the CCSS' mandate is to cover 100 percent of the populati  with health
pwgms, about 17 percent of the populi  is curretly not coverc4 under the existing
system. The uninsured are mostly the self-employed who pay for services as needed, and
woers in the infonmal sector. This official mnmber of uninred is misleading, however,
since many of these people are obtuning serices from the system despite their choice not to
contibute. A sick person aumatically has access to public health sevices, and screening
processes are only loosely appled, particulay by officials who grant indigent privileges.
' Compasd to Argetina. with 5.59 bed per 1,00o pu"an, Uruguy with 3.25, Meico with 1.25, Sain with
5.2, and USA with 5.85.



.79 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 3
HEALTH SECTOR REPORM PROJECT                    Pge S of 8
SOCLAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Recent studies have fourd that only 55 perent of uers clming indiget status aculy
belog to the poorst 20 pereL
F. Aternative Healt C       Providea
17.       The CCSS has intoduced new models of ealth cam in the past  e    years in
order to impove efficiency, increase m    flexibity, and provide  nataives to the
traditional, govenmnt-opertd system. These modes, discussed in Annex 4, section D,
include fixed capiaon, employer-prvded heal services, cooperatives, and mixed
prvate/publc sytems. ITe development of these new health ca  altaives was aimed at
provid choices tothe pubfic, fiedom in   cng phyicias,  reaI    a        o of
the community m deteming healt care choie, and inentv  to the pivate sector.
G.               an d Zq_kmet
18.       Recent sdies in the country have reported tat flling fixed investment in he
health sector have led to a geneal deterioratIon of infm,structure, e.g., fiwlty air conditg
at drug soge faciites tesuling in costly losses. DLring the eonomic diulties of the
eady 1930s investment in conction, additions, imprve  , ad mainenace for the
sector as a whole fel from 13.6 percent of total budgetaa F expe  in 1973 to 1.6
pen in 1984. This level of expdue is beow what woud usualy be consded
neoessary to cover depreciation of equipmet and facilities. The year 1985 saw a smal
irease to 2.4 p^eent of tot  xndiures, but the allocadon remains low. Cfnlics and
health posts are generally poorly equipped and the condition of the facilities has been
19.       In 1988 onl-. about twothirds of cinical and laboatory equipm  were found to
be operting. Of 227 sets of X-ray equiment, 61 pct wene in normal operatg
condiion, with 27 percent defecive and 12 percen inopeave. In clical labories, 60
percent of the 1,600 ses of equipmet were in normal woring order, while 27 pencent wer
defecdve and 13 percet inoperaive. These problems are dwed by many countries in Lain
Amedra, and in many cases are worse. One reason is that much of the equipment in Costa
Rica is newer than that im other counties, reflectng mass purchases in the late 1970s. Still,
due to high costs involved in eq*uipent replacement, attention to this problem at the primary
and seday levels is key to eflicient eiaton of the system. Suo to infaste
and equipm     maintenance will be given under  wproved MDB and Central American Bank
for EBonomic Inegmtion (CABEl) loans.



COSTA RICA
Table 1. MICAL ESTABLISHMENT, CCSS & MOR
BY PLANNING REGION & TYPE (1993)
Hospitals                         Clinics                   Ministry of  ath
No          Reonad   Outdying    Sub-        Type            Sub- Cents  Posts  Total
Regio                          Ar[       Total                          Total j
1.   1                   t ~~~~~~1  2 1 3   1   2 J 3 1 4   Posts,,                              
Ge    6OOO 0  0 0 0 6 0000  0  0  0   0   6
Administration
Cental North     I       1      0   1   1   4    9   4   5   6    1    25          26      67      123
Cental South    2        1      0 1 I1        5   35  2   4   6    14    61         17     56      138
Paific Centra    0       1      1   0 0    2    6   6  0   1          1     14      3      32      51           iit
Huetar Norti    0        1      1 0 0         2   12  0   0 0         0     12      2      40      56
Chootep         0        1      10  1         3   13  7   1  0        5     26      4      66      99
Huetar          0        1      0   1  0     2    8   6  1  0         0     15      3      54      74
Atc lic
Branca          0        1      3   1  0   5       6   1        2   O 0       9     6      64      84
Total           9        7      6   4   3   29 89  26  13 13   21    162    61             379    631
¢       TbIle am Wso SS kws widi penedic nmd  visW.                        
Hospitsdiect dopendent an CCSS  Mdedial A
NCT:       The Team "Geal Ad stmaon rdeh to an 'AccouannAdwmitave conoept rg irdin      l  esogo and acbv
whih ar not depend  on regional        and wbich se gmmily at to CCSS centra levl.
II 
oo W



Tabe 2. AVALALE HOSPITAL BEDS BY SERVICE AND REMON
ABSOLUTE VALUES AND RATES PER 10,000 INHABITANTS
Ra           Popat       Totli  Meodid    Sugay  OBJGYN   Phiric Csiadce*'s    awive I P               a Cmioo
Abs"at          3,087,685      44      627       973       409        326        *1S         36        43       ills
Rat.                        11.80     2.03       3.15      1.32      :.06        037        0.12      0.14      3.61
CAnual Noa*
Abswlute        1,211,943    547       134       67        145        90          10         0         9         92
RatP                         4.1      1.11      O." ,  1.20          0.74        0.08       0.00      0.07      0.76
Absolbte         792,387     917       121       109       109        65          3          0         7         S03
p.dD                        1157      1.53   _1.38   123 8   0.82                0.04   O .C0   o .as63 9p
AbesShZe         290,0S9     434       106       100       109        106         13         0         0          0
Raft                        14.96     3.55      3.45      3.76       3.65        0.4S       0.00     O.0       0.00
Aear  atNoica
AUxsiid2 140,079             ISS       41        25        So         31          8          0         0         0 63                        Go
Rafe                        11.06     2.3        1.78     357        2.21        0.7        0.00      0.00      0.00
ENoiew A'esal
Abooflid         225,907     193       47        40        48         S3          S          O         O         O  0                    >>
Rawe                         75S4     1.84       1.S6     113        2.07        0.20       0.00      0.00      0.00                ) 
Cbwompb
Absoh t          230,079     2S9       83        52        77         39          2          6         0         0             
Rif                         11.26     3-61      226       3.3S       1.70        o.a9       0.26      0.00      0.0 0 
Pacific C' m d
Absolu           167,181     233       60        72        60         32          6          3         0         0
Raft                        13.94     3."9       4.31     3.59       1.91        0.36       0.18      0.00      0.00
TOTAL
NAIIONAL
Absolut         3,087,6S   6,382      1,219     1,438     1,007       742        162        4S         S9       1,710
Raft                        20).6n    3.9s       4.66     3.26       2.40        O.S2       0.1S-    0.19       S.S4
Sasoes:   Amw&o Esdw, CCSS, 1991. Poyecddin Pobfae,, CELADE, 1991.
00 w



. 82 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEC 3
HEALTH SICTOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 8 of 8
SOCIAL SBCURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Table 3. DIS      ONOF HEALH STAFF ACROSS FACILII
CCSS, 1991
PHYSICNS                 NURSES
PACIY    rENUMBER PERCENT NUtME  PERCENT
National       1,115       42.7        741       51.4
Specialty        116        4.5        116        8.0
Regional        420        16.1        267       18.5
Periphea I       71         2.7         32        2.2
Pew*dera 2       131        5.0         74        5.1
Periphea 3       190        7.3        151       10.5
Type 4          274        10.5         37        2.5
Typ 3            80         3.1         14        1.0
Type 2           101        3.8          8        0.6
Typer      -     112        4.3          3        0.2
Sources:   CCSS, Prpu    de Readec    n del M lo de Amendn, May 1993.



- 83 -
COSTA RICA                             ANNEX 4
HEALTH SECTOR REPORM PROJBCT                     Pag 1 of 17
SOCIAL SECURITf SYSTEM COMPONENT
FINANCING OF HEALTH SERVICES
1.        Progresve progmms In halt fonned the centerpiece of the Govemet's
spending tough the 1980s and led to impssive gais in educaional acheveent, halth
dtas, and     expectncy for ail Costa Ricans. These gns, hower, did nt come at a
low cost Total heath cae speding Inased ftom 3.0 percet of GDP in the 1960s to a
bigh of 10.6 percen in 1979 ad an esdmated 8 percent of GDP in the ealy 1990s. ThIs
rttio plc  Costa Rica in the range of most deveopd cunries (7-10 percen of GDP), and
well above the aveae for otr middlebincome countris (5-7 percent). Table 1 shows the
total public expenditure in health for the 1980-1990 period as a share of totl centrl
government expendi_re and GDP and the per capitt spending. In addidon to public
expenditus, comers spend an estmated 1.75 percent of GDP, or US$35 per capita, an
Table 1. HEALTH SECTOR RE RR T EXPENDIURES
(In 1985 millios of Colme)
1980-1990 
Healt E de   Haft as % Of  Ream as % of                    Real PK Capita
Year    (Roe 198S tmn)  Total PUbic Exp.   GDP         Poplatiaon      (US$)
1980           20,747.62         30.5          10.5       2,284,495    179.84
1981            14,431.03        23.1           7.3       2,353,128    118.35
1982            11,050.00        20.9           S.7       2,423,835    90.28
1983            11,001.41        21.5           6.0       2,495,984    87.28
1984            12,937.35        24.4           6.6       2,568,940    99.72
198S            12,122.00        23.9           6.1       2,642,073    90.85
1986            13,476.27        24.1           6.4       2,715,831    98.26
1987            13,770.77        23.9           5.2       2,790,635    97.72
1988            14,441.S6        23.5           S.3       2,86S,812    99.79
1989            19,195.91        26.1           6.3       2,940,698    129.26
1990            16,700.95        23.2           S.2       3,014,598    109.70
2.        This annex i8 divided into seven sections. The firt section describes some of
te overall trends i bealth care fiancing; the second section brely dcibes the social
scurity financig model and then uses actuial projecions to highligt some of the long-
tam obacles that the CCSS fices; the tW  secto estimates some of the economic benfs
that would be derived from various ptoject alter ves; and the fourth sectin disc    some
of the altatve fancing models that the CCSS has employed over the past 6 years. The
ffi   d s    sectDs contain a more dee description of te studies relaed to the
financIl model, resoure allocato system, and alternaive models. The seventh section
conti  a descrpi  of the resource allocadon and managment pilot project
3.         n the past 10 years, coa0t have bee ridig fiser tan revenue from socal
secuty conution. This hs prompted the CCSS to raise addidonal revemne b increasing
sca secuty  pmItn and  _unting addional evenu from ot&. -es, e.g. sale of



- 84-
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 4
HEALTH SECTOR REFOIM PROJECT                  Page 2 of 17
SOCIAL SECURTY SYSTEM COMPONENT
servic. Despite these measres,                     Figue   1
the CCSS and the MOH have
boe  op1tng at deficit since      oo-o n1950.4991
1989. Figure 1 displays the  o                                               1r
rapidly rising expenditres of th
CCSS and the overall trends in
reeu  and  c       seft    for the  2sw -
health sector from 1980-1991. By  mm
1991 th deficit grew to about     l IeQ
US$22 milion and it Is projected    toooo_
to increase six tim  by th: year 
2000 (see Table 2).
1980  191  1982  19813 198   198S  1916 1967  1918  1989  1990  1991
4.        Renus. Figure 2                               Y.
shows the differnt sources of
revenue for the health sector and   1.- c=5R*vmuus.-mCCS lpew.*-mONRei -A-=*unw-MON l,pau
then the two subsequent figurs
display the share of exp _di
that th CCSS and the MOO respectively allocate to differet healt sevice programs.
Health secr rvenues of the public sector health ihtditon (CCSS, MOH, INS) sre
generaed by four major  wenue soues: (a) codzacone or socal security premiurs
accoun for 72 percent of reven; (b) cent  goverment          add 12.5 pect;
(iii) direct payments from the sale of sevices in public and private facilities ad anotfar 5
pecnt; and (iv) other income from intest, rent, etc., contfibtes an addiona 10.5
S.        The CCSS generates 85 percet of all reveus from compuloy social security
contibuion (otiza) collected from all actie and pioned salaried workr. For
actve worke  the premium consit of a 15 percent payrlol tax on sary and wage earnings
paid to the Sicknas and Matrity Progrmm (SM; the premium is levied m vaying
pporions on the worker (5.5%), the employer (9.25%) and the State (0.25%). Reources
to finance health cae for pensioned works, who ar covered by the Old Age, Disabilt
and Life Insuance progrm (JYM), are generated from a 12.5 pent tax on penDon
befits. Tis tansfer from the peion program to the SEM to finance health care
constiutes nealy 10 perce  of IVM exediur. The remainder of CCSS rvenues is
collected from the sale of goods and sers (e.g., care for private paents), transers frm
the central goverment ad the lottery, and other miscanes income from rent, intest,
etc. Th central govenment resourc  are finced by 18 distinc sources of revenue, with
the lagest share coming from genl revenue and an earmarked payroll deducton of 5
pere. These tasury allocato  are finned primary by sales taxes on goods and
service, but the centl governmect ge tes only 9 pecent of GDP from tax reveues.
The income tax collecdon system is being adressed under the cunt  SAL and IDB loans.
Moreover, recent stude by the lDB have shown that the income tax syvtem in Costa Rica is
reressive, congt        to wiWdread evasio among the top 40 pert of the papulation.
It is threfore likely that the ceral govement allocafti   which finance many of the public
haM exlth       of the MOH are also faiy regrsive. The dirct payments ar



-85 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 4
HEALTH SECTOR RBPORM PROJECT                   Page 3 of 17
SOCAUL SECURITY SYSTEM COP PONENT
gen_ed for medi  services pwvided to                     Figure 2
tIe wlf-mployed, who ate not obigated to
contribe to the 0cial scity system, to
tuzis, and to privat patrons usig public
8fti. In theory, thee services are                  H83  E OS
povided at fiu cost, but the lack of anF                       (1
app iat cost mdhodology and poor
billing and collection8 systnen have limited
receipt of al expected revenues from these    0  Pmb
srices tD oy apprdmately 13 percent.o l
6.        EedIt". In 1990, the
CCSS allocated 56 percent of public                                 Osuwiun
reces for health to the provision of
curaive snices in its 29 hospitals, 42
percent to provide care in the outain
cinics, and an addiional 2 percent for
pro8m  In odontolo  and media mLnta.              008 EXPENUR I PROGRM
About 56 percMt of CCSS expenditures                   U  aFu     (
wer spent on salaries, while the remaining
4 percent were accuntd for by recurrent 
exp iiturs in the clinics and hopitals,
sudie paid for sicness and burial
benefi, and other tainsfers and payments.
Once the hospits were tansferred to the      Od n                  it
CCSS sart  in 1973, the    onsibil           O m OI O
of the MOH became more orientod to
excuively preventive and promodve health
care. As a reslt, 47 percent of al MOB'
expendiures were allocated to nutition
progms, 12 percent on rurl and                    m             PRAGPAU
community healt progams (which provide   |            o1 FUf (11)
preventive services such as imm u  Siat
and penaal care), and the rest was
allocated to heal promotion, education,
environmental sanitaon and
epidemiologcal surveillance. The money is
disproportonaty spent on salaries: the_
MOH spends over 81 percen of all program |
resources on salaries, 7 peet on matedals
and supplies and 12 percent on eatnsion
services. Public sector investment, which
declined prcpditoy during the 1980s,
apmented only about 2 percent of public health expetures. Investment in the pfivate
sector has be  insea ing, however, as 15 percen of total health expenditures are now spent
i the private sctor, pimarily on disrtonay outpatient conslatons and minor urgery.



-86-
COSTA RCA                               ANNE3X 4
HEALTH SECTOR REIFORM PROJECT                      Page 4 of 17
SOCALI SBCURItY SYSTM COMPONENT
A. So&al Securty Muancing
7.         The CCSS SEM progam is essentaly a pay-asyou go system in which the
ritn collecd     ewch year are rouhy equal to the ewected benefits for that year.
Under this type of finacing model, it is typical for the sydem tD generat small rese=res in
the eatty year of the system. As the population grows older and a smafle prenta  of the
popultion i              while a larger p    _ of th popuaon is colecting benefits,
the reserves are amded and the system revets to onto-one finag (each year finances
only the beneft for thu year). Table 2 is based on actua projections of CCSS revenu
and             (tking into account iflation and interest rtes) over time. This table
demoaes the penomenon discussed above, while underlnn  the Imporane of
improving the cnt reven   generat   mechanism of the CCSS and alting the unt
fiancing model wbich pwvides unlimited benefi to the entire popatin. In teums of net
revee, Table 2 shows that the SEM progm has been opeating in deicit since 1989,
altough accmulated reserves coninue to provide a firly sizable surplus. This surplus,
however, will become a deficit in 1998, as the ttal expe     of the CCSS will continue
otparing the tota revenue increases. Two exogenous facts may incease expnditure
beyond the lek-.:s implied by these esimations. The fi  is an increase in spding on
highr technology i venfions which witl be fueled by: (i) an overal increase in available
technologs; i) an an popuato which demands more complex care; and (ii) an
ices in chronic diseas  as a result of the hal  tansid     Second, if the private sector
is pemntt-ed to expand in an unrguated envirnment, there will be fiuther distotons in
puMic sectr  eding, human resourc, and  e quaiy of public secr sevic.
Table 2. SICKNSS AND MATERNITY PROGRAM
ACTUARIAL PROJECTION OF REVENS AND EXPENDITURES
1985 to 2000 (In milion of Colones)
Year      Contibutons    Total Revenmes     Total       Net Revenue  j  Rseve
1985           9,877.20       11,0O8-9.6d0    9,240.20       1,849.40     7,004.50
1986          11,266.60       12,840.00      11,63S.00       1,205.10     10,028.50
1987          13,943.00       15.875.00      13,192.50       5.682.50     11,323.00
1988          17,003.50       19,262.00      17,611.80       1,620.20     14,318.00
1989          21,023.90       24,078.90      24.245.20        (166.30     14,096.80
1990          28,401.50       30,854.70      31,441.30        086.60)    IS.348.00
1991          33,335.20       36,300.70      39,231.70       (2,931.00    19,520,60
1992          40,804.30       46.311.40      48,095.66       (1.784.20)    17,736.40
1993          48,471.20       53,841.30      57,3S7.03       f3,S7I   _  14,220.70
1994          S8,126.80       64,061.30      66,401.70       (2,340.40)    11,880.30
1995          70,124.30       76,619.50      78,191.1S       (1.S71.60)    10,308.70
1996          83,117.10       90,219.20 _    92,838.32       (2.,619.10)  7,689.60
1997          89,486.00      106.136.50     110,857.36       (4,720.80)    2,968.70
1998         116,633.30      124,643.10     132,978.81       (8,335.70)    (5,367.00)
1999         137,77S.00      145,764.6D     158,910.83      (13,146.20)   (18,S13.20)
2000          162,649.10     170,079.80     189,862.11      (19,782.30)   (38,29S.S0)
Soure: CCSS Department of Acuaa ProDeos, 1992
Note:      ne irjectioutk the curetl rates of socil serity evadon and Govenmnt under-
to CCSS as constants, based onthe roas and leves feffcive in 1992 when estimats
wee alclated.



-87 -
COSTA RICA                            ANNEX 4
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                    Page 5 of 17
SOCIAL SBCURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
B. Etimating the Economic Beefts of Poject Interventions
8.        Many of the reforms contemplated in the financing compoent of the project aim
at improving the financial stability of the CCSS through resource mobilization and inreasing
efficiency of the Costa Rican helth car delvety system. In theory, these benefits could be
weighed against the cost of the invesmet to derive a notion of the costs and benefits
involved in the project. Given that most of the revenue generstin reforms under the
proposed project will not be fully operstional until the third or fourth year of the project, it is
not possible to estmate the rerent cost of oatng te  systms. On the other hand,
many of the changes are normatve in natre and  fore involve ittle operstional change,
such as establishing a 'cap' on social security contiuons which would improve the
incentives of bigh-income citizens to ctribut. Despite these limitations, it is possble to
calculate certain benedv; that can be readily and  iately esmad in monetary terms,
including: (a) im,roved reource mobilization resltng from (i) reductions in evasion and
increased efficiency in collection of social security premiums, and (ii) increased revenues
ftum the full-cost pricing of private sermces provided in CCSS facilities; (b) increased
efficiency in resource utilization and cost savings resulting from a Redefined primary health
car model and improved incentives for providers to contain costs; and (c) improved resource
uti on m the pharmaceutcal sub-sector. Two addtonal measues that wil prvide
economic benefits, though they cannot be estmated ex ante, are: (a) encounging an active
ppnvate sector role, which will reduce the burden on the public sectr, and (b) decreasing the
essively long waiting time will lower the opporquity cost for the poorer members of the
popuon who seek care in the public sector.
Table 3. ESTIMATED EVASION OF SEM CONTRIBUTIONS
BY PRIVATE SECTOR WORKERS DURING 1991
A   Economically Active Podatlon In Private Sector                538,776
B   Prive Sector Workeo Direcdy Insued                            321,571
C   Slaried Population in Private Sector Ntikiatdn                212,559
D   Minimum Montly Wage for Agiutiadl Worker"7                    $103.2
E   Aggregat SlaAy (C*D*12)                                    $263.2 mollion
F   Global Premum Level                                            1S%
G   Total Estimated Evasion of SEM (1;F)                        $39.4 million
Sources:    Household Survey Data, 1990; CCSS Acuarial Departqent Calculatons, 1992.
11 Assuming 20 percent undr-reportng of Wages
9.        The CCSS has esmated the level of contributory evasion to be 14 percent of
SEM revenues, or US$ 39 million. Table 3 displays the assumptions used to develop this
estmate. The measures introduced in sub-component B of the financing component (para
4.18) aim to reduce conttory evasion and to improve the instuments available to the
CCSS to monitor and control social security premium collection. Initidal esimates indicate
that the Bank project should eliminate nearly 10 of the 14 percent of the eisting evasion.



- 88 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 4
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 6 of 17
SOCIAL SICU1T  SYSTEM COMPONENT
10.       Using a model to pedict period-specific increasd compliac, a mnmber of
simulaions can be run to evaluate the poposed changesY1 The model provides: (a) a
simple method to predict annual and cumultve   veme  in CCSS colecion and to
evaluate whether proect benefs exceed project cost; and (b) a basis for estimating annual
project performance, by comparing the expected level of additional CCSS revenues from
reduced evasion with the acdual revenues. The model can be  pecd  as:
(1 +d)t
where:
ER1 =     Evasion reduction duing period i, measured as share of previous
peiod's collections;
ir -        ial period evasion reduction, as a share of prvious period's
revenues;
d =       Rate at which the effectveness of interventions to reduce evasion
decays each year,
11.       The effectiveness of the proposed changes in the curnt revenue collection
modalties is difficult to measure, due to the fact that the efecdveness is conditional on the
manner in which evaders react to the reforms. Nonethls, the model is innovaive in that it
(a) recognizes that the evasion reducton rate mus be appLid to a smaler base each year, as
the number of evaders is reued by the project,2 and (b) the effectiv s of a given
itevendon will be reduced over ume, as the remaining evaders are reuasingly more
difficult to catch.Y The model provides us with 3, 10 and 25 year estmates of the estimated
evasion reduction. Estmates are based on conservative esfimates of both the initial reduction
in evasion and the rte at which GDP will grow.Y The medium asmptons coider an
il evasion reduction of 3.5 percent, a total long-n evasion redction of 18 percent and
a dicount rate of 15 percent. rable 4 displays the annual projected CCSS revenue
improvements, over 3-, 10- and 25-year periods. The period-pecific results reflect projected
revenue gains from the completion of the relevant component; that is, the 3-year estmates
are projected revene gains, 3 year after the new instnunts have been implemented under
the poject.
12.-      Under these assumptions the component yields revenue gains which exceed
project costs by signific   amounts. In the firs he  years after implemention of the
reforms, fte projected net present value (NPV) of gains under tbe project, under te
specified assuptions, is US$35 million. Over a 25-year period, the net preset value of the
1t he mode usd in the estats is based on a model commonly used to estimate reductions in tax evasion.
If Ibi is refleed in the term (1-irtl in the nunrat of the equation.
Al his is capued by the (I+  1 ter in the dentominator.
if Revenue prjections are based on the 1991 GDP of US$5.5 Billion. For simplicity, the assumpdons consider
ea GDP rowth to be zero over the period



-89 -
COSTA RICA                              ANNEX 4
HEBALTH SECTOR R}FORM PROJBCT                     Page 7 of 17
SOCAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMNENT
project  aches about US$ 200 millionY  Even under consevative assumptions: an inil
reduction in esion of 1.5 pemnt, a higher evasion roduct   decay nt. and a dscount
rate of 35 penett, the project still remains cost-fctive; under ts assumptions, the
project would genet a NPV of US$ 9 million in the firS  3 years and over US$ 25 mMion
over a 25 year time pedod.
Table 4. PROJECTED ECONOMIC BENEFIT OP REVENUE
COLLCICON IMROVEM NIW'
B_____    (tmo*  Proect Completin
Projectn                f ___3 Y           1 Ye  1oas   __ 25 Yeans
Cumublivo Evasion Reduciaion2                  .086          .159           .177
bncrad CCSS Ptevenue as share of GDP          .0042          .0078         .0087
Anual Cureant Value Total Revenue Gains        23.37         43.18         48.47
(UJS  illon) 
Cumultive Prset Value of Revoe Gains           36.66         134.29        201.51
(1991 US$ million)
Net Prst Value                                 34.66         132.29        199.S0
Assumptions: (a) Rate of evasion reductioa, year 1: 0.0M3; (b) Decay rate of evasion educon: 0.20; (c)
Annud read discount rate: 0.15
11       in ons of 1991 US$ dollarsand auming 1991 Cota Rican GDP of US$ 5.S bii, based
on World Bak esiates. Ptoections are basod an real GDP levls that are held constant at doe
1991 level.
21       As a share of the pvious peuiod's collections.
13.       In addition to the reducton in evasons estimated in Table 4, it is also possible to
estmate the addtonl revenue which ould be generated by pricing the sale of services to
the un_in d at a levl which adequately  0lects the resource cost. While the paucity of
data makes it dfficult to cost specific interventions, e.g.,     , te ActuWa
Deament of the CCSS estimes annually the revenue that should be genrtd from the
sale of medical serices. Reve    loss and potal revenue improvements are displayed in
Table 5. Using the average over 3 years, we compare the expected revenues with end-of-
year totals for income geneiatd frm the sale of medkic  -ce. Miis prvides us with a
basic esdmate of revenue lost due to the colecon of fees .;2ich do not adequately eflct the
cost of the service rendered. As Table 5 indicates, this category accounts for a loss of over
US$25 million in amnnal revenue. An additional loss of revenue is the result of the
Goveanment of Costa Rica's faiue to fui oblgtory contributions to the CCSS in its
various roles as employer, insurer of the poor and dlsadvnnged, and subsidiary for each
member of society. The annual loss attribtable to the Stte's evasion is estimated at neady
US$68 millon.
Al An importa ceat applies to the estines: the mediun- to long-term es_tms dono include the rectut
cost of mainainsn any systems that will be implemted to reduce vasion. Given tht  s sysams wLil E
developed under the project, it is notposible to estimat these oosts at the pent time; incremental costs cam re
_ntoduced to dth model as they are dermined.



-90-
COSTA RICA                                ANNEX 4
HEALTH SECThR REORM PROJECT                          Page 8 of 17
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
14.        The economic retums reslting from the increased eficiency of the Redefined
PHC Model and the Impved Ivntoy mana               t I t  phaa  ua b-sector can
also be calculatd, although In a less rigorous manner. The second caoy  of benefit is
the reut  of the Incs d effiency and impoved inctive system which te redefied
pimary health care model will bring to the provision of outpatient care at the clinic level.
Using the cooperative clinic model as a benchmark ad the curt annal CCSS
on Type 4 clnics, it is esimaed that the rdefned PHC model will reduce the
unit cost of pviding primary heat  cam by between 10 and 20 percent,
between US$2 and 5 million per annumy.  Whie it is more diffilt to derive qtivtaive
estimaes of cost savings, the project's redid PHC model and the pilot fiacig schemes
which aim to iWprove finanCial resourCe alloCaon, wM reslt in greate efficiency in the use
of costly inputs be      planning and budgeting will play a more prmint role in the
pocess. The third group of beneis arises from Ipovemens in the inventory and storae
plnning for the p              subsector. The project will provide for improved inventory
management which wll relt in estimated yearly savinpg of US$400,000.
Table 5. ESTIMATBD BCONOMIC BENEFi' FROM SElECTSD
PROJECT INTERVENTIONS
_(US$ mmions)
P .tentia Savinsp (% Redciol in     e Losss)
Ar of Eonomic loss       Total os_    Low (20%)   | Medium (50%)         High (80%)
ContlbutoiyE,v=o                     39.4             9.8            23.4            33.0
gDirect Paymet                       27.0             5.4            13.5            21.5
Redefied PHC Model"                   7.5             15              3.6            6.0
0.4             0.08            0.2            0.32
74.3            16.78           40.7           60.82
2      oTh average exchng rate for 1991 is 122.5 colones per US Dollar.
"    The calcton for this subcomponent r basod on the model diwus  in the prvious section, and reflect
the 3 year cumultiv revenu imovem. Te rmnge of savings, low, medium, high, are basd on the
flowing  _          to the model (see table 4 for notaton):
Low: ir-0.015        Modium: ir-0.035     Highl ir-0.05
d=0.25                 d-0.20             d=0.20
r=0.35                 r-0.1S             r=0.10
3'    This ret thO estdmaed dtfflece betwee the projected revenues rom theosal of  dical srvices to the
non-inered and the ven  ecoived in the frm of direc paymet for senrvies rendered.
4V    This callion io bad  the difference btwe 1     it os for the PAVAS-Cooperative Cic and th
aver  uit cot for all other Type 4 olnics (PAVAS un  ot is 30% lower). This savings is then applied
to the total amout spnt by the CCSS for outpatient ca in Type 4 clincs (esmad at US$25 million).
3'   This reflects the estmated annul cost of rentig addtionl tor  se due to poor nvntoiy planig and
15.        Table 5 above contains the estmatd economic benefits reltng from various
componets of the proect; these estmates are based on a mpge of conervative estimates,
if A 1991 dudy by Fiedler and Rigoli found that the unit costs of the PAVAS Cooptive wer, on average, 30
peut lower thaa comparb  CCSS clinics; this result has been confirmed with more recent datL Given that tho
Pam  linic closely appximat  the Redefined PIC model, eo  stimates are used to form the bsis of the
-8, estnde.



-91 -
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX4
HEALTH SECTOR REPORM PROJECT                  Page 9 of 17
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
described in thO wtes to Table S. While many of the beneits described in the prior
paragraphs may not be realized during the initial years of the project, over the medium term,
the monetay benefits alone shud acount for approImaty US$70 mllion, sgicaty
more tban the amount of the proposed loan.
C. Alernave Models of Fhaing Heah Cam
16.      in order to address the mnmerous operonal and ae  ineffciencies in
the cunmnt financing model, the CCSS has developed four alernative programs which
provide alternative delivery and fmancing mechanisms. The most sucessful has been the
Coopeative model in which the CCSS contacts a third paty, composed of members of a
coopetve  izn, to provide services to the populon witin a predefined catcbment
area The CCSS then pays the co-op a monthly tariff based on the number of covre¢d
people. The cooperative has been able to provide care at an estimated cost that is 30
percent below *hat offered by comparable CCSS facilities, while increasing the level of
satisfacdon of the users.
17.      The Company Medkine Program prvides approximately 7 to 8 percent of all
consulions provided directly by CCSS clinics. Under this program an agreement between
the CCSS and employer allows the employer to hire a doctor to provide ambulatory health
services to works in the company within the confies of the business. The company pays
the slr of a private physician, while the CCSS finances and provides the necesary
diagnostic, teapeutic and pharmaceuical services.
18.       The Mixed-Mediie program attempts to reconcile the demand for private
services witbin the framework of the public system. Under this model, which has had
imited success, people who are insured under the CCSS progrm but choose to consult a
private physician can subsequny receive publicly provided diagnostic or thierapeutic goods
prsbed by that physician at a CCSS facWis free-of-charge. The inadeqacy of the model
lies in the fact that it is unlikely that patients will pay a private physician for care and then
return to the public sector, given that most patients seek privately provided care in order to
avoid the linaad poor service in the CCSS facilities.
19.      In a fourth attempt to improve the economic incentives and the efficency of the
system, the CCSS developed the Capitated Medical Care Program. The program
reimbursed physicians on a capitated basis to provide services to a small population with the
intent of increasing user s action by allowing paipants to select a personl physician.
In practice, however, the program failed to offer preventive services, there was no
connecn between the fee paid to the physician and the type or quality of service offered,
and a lack of flexibility on the part of the users acually reduced user stsfaction as patients
were asked to select physicians a xiod with no information on the quality of the physician.
20.       While some of these modes have been successful at increasing the level of user
satsfacto and, in some cases, lowering costs, these alternatives fail to provide an integmated
apprach to health sector fincing. There is a glaring need to develop a new set of
financing mecanisms which alcates resouOe to the pimay, secondary, and teraw  level



-92 -
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 4
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                 Page 10 of 17
-  .  S SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONET
failites based on the priorities of the ppulaton served by the respecdve level of provision,
whfle   u         encouaging investment in the most cost-effective interventions. The
folowing sections will rview the studies to be undertaken dng the hOt two yeats of the
project to improve resource mobilization and to design alternative resource allocation
mechanisms.
D. Resource Mobilization and
Improvement of the Findal Stabilty of the CCSS
Overall Objectve
21.       The efficient opetion of the health system requir an adequate and stable
source of revenues. The objective of the financing studies would be to help the CCSS to
decreasevain and increase contributory control for compulsoy social security
contbutions by increasing the dficiency and effecdveness of current revenue collection
mechanims. TThe sudies would make specific proposals for changes in strucue,
manament, faciLities, equipment and prsn el.
Specc Studie to be Execited
22.       The first *ohlection of sdies is reled to improving the ecnomic incentives in
order to stimulate afiiatio to the CCSS, discourage under-reporting of incomes, and
impwve the incenves to contribute that fice independent workers who are not obligatd to
conbute to the CCSS. In addition to recommending reforms, each will develop
mechanisms, including legal and institutional changes, to implement the reforms over the
short-, medium- and long-tms. The following sudies will be undetaken:
(a)  A first study will examne the impact of non-contribution and evasion on
CCSS revenues, according to each contributory group, i.e., employers, sald
workes, independents, and pensioners;
(b)  An acuaral study of the adequacy of current premimn levels in light of
the epansion of benefits which is cuntly proposed under the redefined PHC
model; the study would evaluate benefits from the following programs: primary
health care delivered through the EBAIS, general outpatient visits,
hospitalization, pharmac-nitical, obstetics, odontology, prothesis, and cash
transfers in the form of sickiess benefs, maenity benefits and funeral benefits;
(c)  A study of the current methods used to caluate the cost of befits
provided to indigents and the manner in which the CCSS collects from the
cena  government for benefits provided under the social security system.
Specific steps to be taken include: (i) integmaing the recenty completed Registry
of the Poor with the CCSS's methodology of identifying and calclating the
number of indigents; (ii) cosng the benefits for ptoviding care to this group;
(iii) developing a system to meae the use of services by the poor in CCSS
facilites; (iv) designing a system which allows the CCSS to recover from the



-93-
COSTA ItCA                          ANNE( 4
HEALTH SCOR REFORM I1OJCT                    Page 11 of 17
SOCAL SECURITy SYSTEM COMPONENT
State expenditures on the poor, and (v) simulato  which meas  the impa of
diffeent alternative bing methods for tie poor per capita, per adly, based
on th aveMw income, aveg or manal cos, et.; and
23.      XImind j riza-. These Mtudiswi be   ied ot in he fir yer of
the project by the Acari Dqetnt of the CCSS with th    e    of both naiona and
inteaional consultas with high qu  a    in the area6 actuarl plming and
eccs.    e drafts of the studis wouid be disussed with the Ban, the fia reports wil
be rviewed during th firs annual rvew, and agreed  m     isw  be
implemented thereafter.
24.       The second group of sudies would be relatd to the process of reporting
eanings and the collecdon of social secury c     from employers, employees and
independent worers. The studies would promote a redepgn of the cut sysam which
would seamline the coectdon process and increase the contribry conols. The
following are specific areas to be considered:
(P.) A comprehensive review of the cuffent sys8tm design, both concepially
and in terms of infonmadton systems, computer equipment ad software;
(b)  The development of spcific tests by which the CCSS can match repored
incomes with oher govemment agences in to ensure generl compliance with
Oe regtry reqeents. This will involve the deveopment of a
methodology to contol te lev,l of evasion in o    with the ministry of
Finance and the Deparment of Income Tax;
(c)  The imoplemenion f an effective audioy process with modifications in
the types of procedure used to idenfy non-cni      as wel as modfiatio
in the training of inecos.  hi8s study would also dicus resions to the
curfent penlty process for non-contibutors or acts of fraud in the reporng of
incomes or payrols-;
(d)  A moden i-ion of the p aming and cunret coemter sysem used to
bill and coUect social securi payments. This would include: develping a
decentraliz collection system; defing mediums of tnsmision f data to the
ceral data base; recommending equipmen, both hardware and software, to be
utilized; and assessig training needs for users of the new system; and
(e)  The development of an automadzed system of conol of    ins   n
the area of inseton, which integrs cental and regional levels. This will
include: an incease in the ehnial level of inspecdon personnel by means of an
Integrad program of traing with work in areas such as compuer use,
administration, and l  .
25.            TgatOsnin.  hse studis woud be ual_ in the first year of
the project by tbe Gervncia FPicera and by a group of tecical advisors with higb



- 94 -
COSA RICA                           ANrE  4
HEALTH STOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 12 of 17
SOCIAL SECURTrf SYSTEM COMPONEIT
qualifations in the ameas of 8ystems cgineeing, admi on for the deveapment of
income tax evasion detection systems,  d development of elctronicc
networis. Draft versions of all sudies will be discussed with the Ban and the rePevant
Govenment agencies.  inal rpos will b reviewed by the Bank during the firt amal
rview meeting, and agreed  comm    ons will be  PIpl-mented therafte.
26.'      The third group of studies would analyze the feasibilty of utilng alternafive
revenu sources, such as increases in the number of private beds in CCSS hospit, co-
payments and deductibles, improved cost-recovery in the sale of services to uniured grups
and private patents, and development of mechanisms to enu  that providers, the CCSS,
and the central Goveent comply with the conats for tamsfer of resources to the CCSS
heth insuncoe fund. More specically, they comprise:
(a)  A feasibility tudy of the implemn   of co payments and otber forms
of cost-recovert such as user fees and deductibles. Tlhs study would develop a
framework necessary to implement cost recovery meaures, inchuding: @i
diffens between levels of care, referral/non-referral, etc.; (u) proposs for a
payment scale based on ability to pay; (iii) the extent to which revenues ftom co-
payments can be maintned at the level coUlected or used as a re
device under-financed regions or failiies; and
(b)  A sdy of the mechanism  which the CCSS will use to ensure that
prviders, the CCSS, and the centra gvernment comply with any cont0ct
developed to tmnsfer resources, e.g., the per capita tLnsfers to cover prmay
health care. As a necessry part of this control system, the study wil prpose
new procedures and regulary measures for evaluation and monioring of the
QA system in the provson, of health care.
27.       lUdng and OZanudoiQn. These stdies wil be carried out during the first year
of project impltation by the Fimancial Management Complex and by both nationl and
interntional consutants. The results of these studies will be discussed with relevan
agencis in the Government and the Bank during the first annual review, and ageod
recmmendations will be implemented thereafter.
E. Review of E   ng Alrnative Rource Allocation Models
and Albmative Delivery and Finandng Models
Objectives
28.       The objective of thds component is to develop, within a delizd delivery
and financing framework, a revised system for resource allocaion ana budget transfer for the
CCSS which more closely lhinks the planning process to resource allocation at all leves of the
health car system. The second objecive would be to desig and implement a finanl
resour  allocaton model which preserves the principles of efficiency and eqiy while
pmong the development of altenve delivery and finaming models which seek to



-95-
COSTA RICA                           ANNEW 4
HEALTH SECTOR REPORM PROJECT                  Pagp 13 of 17
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Imprve elficiency in the         of the sectr's resources. Ie third objeidve would
be to design alternative systems of hospital a inis
Specifi I.us to be Reviewed
()  The ext  to which the existing onal,                 and judidcial
ihfastructure is adequately meeng the oveal objectie of the heat  sector to
prmvide a high quat sewvice to the ere poultion in an effiient and
equitable manner. Furher, the study will examie how the cur,xn system and
the related resource alocation mechanim  should be changed to meet those
needs;
(b)  Te secoad fudame tal step would be to define a cost of service
methodology, followed by a deid cost of services study which wil conder
both the direct and indiect costs involved in delivery medical services for a
variety of procedures in different types of faciies;
(c)  As a mechanism to tuer resources to the prlmavy level, within the
current and to the alterntve deivery models, this study would: (1) develop the
meodolog to provide per-capita tmsfers to the areas de salud or to the
altative models which would pay the full cost of car for services wbich have
bee defined in the New healt caue model; (i evaluate the impact on per capia
costs of differeniaing bween popula s w   differet ik factor,
geographical locations, etc.; (iii) defie the specific mechaism and the
perlodty with which resources will be tansfed from the cea lvel to the
decentrlize areas de salud;
(d)  The definition of beneiciaries (codzaoes, dependents, indigents, etc.)
under the current system and the mechaisms employed to identify the
beneficiy within a given health system. In addti, the study will develop a
contibutory contol system which will allow the CCSS to regulae the use and
abuse of the social security system;
(e)  The extent to which the ourrt system of tansfen rsourcs to
hospitas based on historical trnds can be relaced with a system which
prspectively tsfers financial resources to secondary and tertiary lvel
inpatent car based on a per case system of payment (PPP), e.g., the U.S.
Diagnostic Reled Goups (DRG) system;
(f)  The new budgetng and resource allocation mechanisms will require a new
form of hospital adm     . Tis study will identify the changes neded to
adapt a hotitalato the new modalitLes. This will include: (i) a
general dignostic of the current  iat  system of the National Children's
Hospital; (i) an evaluaion of the legal, ain ve, manaet and
orniational chages necss  to implement the resoure aocation model at
te try level; (iii) changes in the account, budetn, pesonnel



- 96-
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX4
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJEr                   Page 14 of 17
SOCIAL SECURT SYSTEM COMNENT
t, and patent maemt systems; (iv) adqap                to th MIS
systemn, to provide onforation o1 csts outcos,  omanC  nd qualit of
cam, necessay to allow a hospital administator to manae a hospi effiiently,
effctvely and equitably.
Altrnave Miodeb
29.       Taking the esource allocation system into account, the studies related to the
alternative models will firt review the ae, financial and delivery ascts of the
aleatve models, i.e., Meddna de  hVpa, Medtdna MLta, Qptain  and
Coopera*ws, and then propose an hnegratd model which incorpoates the altive
models into the health care delivery and fiancing system. Each study will discuss:
(a)  Ih admInrve and otore that applies to the model
with additonal emphas on the form in which contrct are wrt, persomnn
ae remunerated and inceives are placed to encouge efficiey, equy and
qualty in th provision an financdifg of edath ca;
(b)  The miro aspects of servce delivery and financing, icludinig the types of
services that will be provided to user of the model and the methods used to
allocate resou    fmm the cen  level to the devy system and then win the
alternative model;
(c)  The advanages and disadnags of the altrnaive model, including the
fActors that imit fther developme  or justify epansion w n the cumnt
delivey system; emphazing the advanbts over the cuarre  model;
(d) A description of the type of information system needed to manage the
resources of the alernative mdel along with an analysis of the type and degree
of con£ttory contsol that is necesay to preserve the system; thn is, what
types of mechanisms are needed to control the access to senrices for patient who
are not afffilated with the nsuane system, while ensuing that the system can
distinguish between affiates, as a contrior, pensioner or ingt  and non-
insued; and
(e)  A study of the options avalable to increase compettion between providers.
30.       Iling and QrzadQn  These sudies will be completed during the first 18
months of the proect under the sWrision of a multi-disciplinary team composed of
internatoa conutants and members of the Gerenda FYnandera and the Gere2da Medkca.
The results of the udies will be submitted for Bank comment upon their completion and
incoiporated into the design of the piot tests (Secuon F below).



-97-
COSTA RtICA                          ANNEC 4
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJE0CT                 Page 15 of 17
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
F. Pilot Projects for Reouroo Manm  and Resource Allocation
31.       The studies described in the preceing Secdon B will be completed during the
fis 18 months of the project. A secend stage will incoae the ret from these sudis
as the inputs to the design of pilot testing of a number of proposed modificatons to the
current resource allocaton model. These ater  ives would promot the involvemnt of the
private sectr coopetves, and mixed delivery systms (Section C), by increasing the
autnomy and flexbilt available to purchase health cae  services; that is, to tansfer
resources betwee the CCSS and these altative systems. In paticular, these
recommendations wil include: (i) a new model for allocating resourc  to the piimary level;
(i) the fiamework to implemen cost-recvery; (ffl) mechansms to identify b c s
(cotizantes, dependent, indigens, etc.); and (iv) mechanisms to esre that providers
comply with contcs deveopd to asfer resources, e.g., per capita tans   to cover
prmay health care. Tis will also include a system of montrng and evaluation and
aleatve desi  of hospital admini'ration systems. Using the esuX   of the sudies, the
recom   ded o       for   iistering   and allocating financial resources will be ted in
evel piot prqect tu be cared out in primay, seoldary and trtia  level filities. The
proect wffl fince consutnt seices and equipmentt needed to develop, monitor and
evalat t  pflot projects in three levels of the heath care system.
32.      It is import8t to highlight two relevn-s caveats: (i) t  t project wil
funca(m             Of th i            of t  Redefined PrimaRy HEalth Care Model;
and (ii) in additon to te   the validity of the Alative Financig Models themselves, an
iortWn  fncmton of the pilot prjojts is to test the lap an of the resoure
_ ^ -  mand allocation mechanisms; that is, how to adapt the crt fianci phnning
ad m ment system to the chnes recomnended by the Alteave Financig Models.
33.       During the pilot development phase (Section B above), a set of monitoring and
evalaon indicators wi be idenfd to evauate the impact of the pilot pro3tcts, both in the
tes area and in a control area which possesses similar ch s. For imtance, two
Type 4 level clinics, each located in a tet and control ar, rectvely, could be selected to
test a paricular financing model, e.g., per capia tranfers for primary health care. Once the
Indcato  are detemied, the second phase will inclde the colection of bashl  an endHne
data, and the third phase (after project compleon) wil include a study to evalat the resut
of the pilot pioects and to high}it recommended mhdificatons to the teW  models.
34.       The pilots are desiged to test a number of options for resource allocaon,
tnsfer and hospital    ions systems. The pilots will select a comparable facilt,
where therm is not a pilot, as a control. The variables to be tested witlin the pilot models
incude:
(a) A fixed cZiZd uner almidseld byf the pinma level M-Dfr. The
pi  Will replicawe this resource allocation mechanism and -the complemenay
control measures, in at least four ambuory clinics;



-98-
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 4
HEALTH SECTOR R7FORM PROJE3CT                 Pag 16 of 17
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
(b)  A W  WWxd  &pt4Jtrnser qlit   by th  rnary scdar aNd
town-  vwA respectvely. This prtope will be tsted in the povnce of
AlaJuel, whicb has a well-developed network of heat post, clinis, and
hpitals at al levels, thus mang k epsnve of the county's heal cut
systm. Tbis would include a mixed system of per capita tranfrs for primy
care and DRGype transfers for secondary and tetiay level care. In order to
compare the performance of this model witb the per capia system of descbed
in (b), this prototype will be implemented in parllel heth posts, clns and
hospials in the proVIn  of Alajuela;
(d)   xloation of te impat of cQ-payments and dedces o CCSS heth
cam  utiton, and eprimentng with ibe            u  by c    ng full
once fog the sl 9f         _hprivate seo, To reduce the over-
onsumption of a limited range of discetiony sevices, the piot would test the
of various cost-recovety mechanims at the ambulaty and hospital level
acilitis; and
(e)  Ak tnl      m sA=sof hQitl. admigdsiQn. To maximize the inca
in efficiency that are expected due to the proposed changes in the allocation and
transfer of resources and to adapt to a decetlied fiamework, the project will
test alternative designs of hospital admini ions systems. This will include:
accunting and budgetg, personnel m   ent, patient            and
modifications to the hospital management inforaion system.
35.       The options sted above will be tested at the primary, se ay, and tery
les  of the health care system. The most cost-effective and efficient measures wil be
expanded md adopted by the CCSS in its health care network and by private providers. The
following pagaphs describe the implementation of the pilot tests in the various levels of
the health care system.
36.       The first piot wil test the resource allocation mechanisms and complementay
control measr, which are described in Section E, at the primary level. The pilot Will
repicate the mechanisms in at least four health care clinics, Type 3 and above; the clnics
wil be selected from among the clinics that meet the required level of s aion. Ihe
only additional criterion that applies is that the selected should clinics include: one urba
cooperative clinic, one traditional urban clinic, one nual clinic, and one private clinic.
37.       The seoond pilot will test the entire   kae of resource allocation and
management reforms in an integratd health area. Ihe province of Alajuela contains a well
developed network of health centers, clinics and hospitals at all levels, thus m ng it
representatve of the country's health can system. In the Alajuela region the project will test
a number of different resource allocaton mechanisms. These include: (a) a fixed capiated
transfer administered by the primary level provider, (b) a fixed capitatd trnsfer
administed by the primary, second:ry and teriary levels, resctively; (c) a mixed systm
of per capia tansers for primary care and DRG-type transfers for secondary and teiay
evel cae; and (d) the impact of co-payments and deducibles on CCSS health cam utlzation



-99.
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 4
HEALTH SECTOR REFOIRM PROJBCT                Page 17 of 17
SOCIAL SEBCRTY SYSTEM COMNENT
would also be tested, and revenue genezatiog poW 1tes of chargng fil price for the sab
of sewvices to private pates would be exlored.
38.       The thdrd pilot wil test a resonce allocation system which will utlz a DRG-
based system for hospital and emergency room procedures as the primaly method to che
for medical sevices rendered. This billing and payment system wil be used to charge either
the pubLic or pdvate systems. In addition, the impact of co-payments and fill-cost picing
for various sevices will be tested. To complement the rerms, the altnative systems of
hospital administraton, which will be developed to allow the hosias to maximize effidency
in a decentlied health care system, will be tested. Th alteive sytems for hospital
adminitation will be developed conceptally duing the proect's iniial 18 months (Secton
B above) and then adapted and tstd in both the Children's Hospial and in Alajuela's health
network. In addition, the adminirve  forms to be developed jointly with the Alajuela
Hospitl pilot will be applied to the Natonl Childe's Hospital.
39.       Upon compleon of the jilot teas, the endlne data will be coLected and
analyzed, followed by recommendaios   to implement the Alternative Financing Model in
CCSS facilies. The pilot tests will be completed under the direcdo of the Genca
F7niwxera and the Gerenda Medka with extnsive collaboration with intenional and
national conswlant.



- 101 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEK S
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 2 of 16
SOCIAL SECURY SYSTEM COMPONINT
C.  1oem Folow.d to Devdop the New Model
4.        The ww model was developed beween May, 1992 and Febnas, 1993 by a
muldtisciplinary team condsting of profesionals from CCSS and the MOH, advised by
local conultat. Several workops were conducted to discuss earlier stud   and
and to validate the new model, wIth paidcpato of many experts representing a
broad range of dicipes. The ew model is intended to respond to the cumnt
pidemolog  ptofil of the country and should be seen in the context of a modified strcte
and admin    of the healh secr (pn d in Anmex 2) and altave foms of
financing (deied in Annex 4). The prnciples of the model comprise uiwersal covepe
and increased equity, while aming at increased effceny.
S.        The epidemiologic profile was defined using moitidity and motaity data fm  a
1987 survey on causes of mobidity of out-paient consuations1' and hospital disargs by
cou, sex and age for 1990.
D. The Curren Health Cae  Model
6.        The curret health care model resulted from decdons in the 1970s to sepamte
prentive caue and place it under the MOH, while crative care was trandsferred to the
CCSS. At present, the CCSS and the MOI bave different pac'ges of health care. The
CCSS packag   hludes out-patient through consultion on geneal medicine, spcaized
medicin and dentiy, with back-up services for diagosis and treatment Coverage m 1991
was 62 % for medical consulains, 7.89% for dentistry and 2.1% for oter professional
servc. CCSS prvie all hospital services. At the lowest level, hospital offer servic
mn the Ibur basi specialties - intern  medicine, genel surgery, pedtrics and obsetics
and gynecology. Sub-secialties of increasingy bigher complexity ae available in the higher
level hospitals; in addiion, hospia povide 24-how emerncy srvc.
7.        The MOH packge covers envirnment saDiton and primay personal health
care tough a long lst of programs for primary health services and envinmental
santion  The latter, however, have a very low budget allocaton. The present model
results in a muftitude of duplications and gives the user very few choices in terms of hospital
or clinic and medical pracddoner. Paricipaton of the people in health sector decisions at
the local level is minimal. Under the present ornizato of services, the admi re unit
is the health establ t without clear delneation of populaton group or geographic region
that sdhod be served; consequendy, each health establishment  inner-looking and responds
passively to the demand for services. Planning focuses on satisfying the immediate demand
and on physical in, without cooinai  with other parts of the health system.
Also, budgets for each establishment are ised on historic performance.
8.        In 1984, liii M-O  and the CCSS signed a Letter of Agreement for the
Inteation of Services (Convenio Para a Integadn de los Sevcios). A Decree No.
19.265-S publshed in 1989 caled Proam of Inrated Health in Costa Rica enabled the
11 BolesWo, Rogpr et al., Cam Rics" Ego de Morbo-MolmUdad - Rownen EXea(dv Mhieriode SaldI/Oa
Cest,akmwe de ro &Soca, ProyeJt de ig&wwia y  1Pwc0n, 192.



- 100-
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 5
HEALTH SECOR REFORM PROJECT                  Page 1 of 16
SOCIL SECURrrY SYSTEM COMPONENT
REDEINED PRMAARY HEALTH CARE MODEL
A. Intcto
1.       This amnex prents the ratonde and concps of the redefted primary healt
came modd ta will be implemented through the proposed project It includes tables on
healft human resources available in the health sector by categoies and pubLic organons,
a summay of actvies within the main progmms, a matix of reponibilites by acvity and
type of pimay are personnel, indicating priorities, a graph showing how the public health
facties wil be oranized in networks by levels of health care in fte cental regions, aor
graph indicaing how the referrl of paents wil opemte throughout the service network, and
a final graph prentng the flow of refeals though the primary, secondary, and terary
care levels.
B. Ratonale for Changing the Health Care Model
2.        During the 1960s and 1970s Costa Rica developed an effective health system that
placed the country among the best of middle income countnes in tms of extnve curative
health seroes combined with implementation of essential preventive progmams. Th
contributed significantly to the very favorable health conditions enjoyed by the country.
Indeed, key health indicators still place Costa Rica in a hily advantageous posion
coparedto other countries in the Latin America Region, with low infant mortality ates at
15 per 1,000 and life expecancy at about 75 years. However, in recent years, a number of
nefficiencies have arisen in udlizaion patens resulting from distortions in both the supply
and demand for serces. Factors affecting the supply of sevices include overcrowding of
high level outient facilities, in large part because basic health services in lower level
ilities in rural and suburban areas are inadequate, inducing people to go directly to the
lrgest clinics and to hospitals even for minor illnesses. There are also imbalances in the
staff mix created by insuffcit numbers of nurses and shortages of essental medic  and
medical materials. At the same time, the demand for services has increased substantially due
to, ntr alla, changes in the epidemiologic profile as a result of popuation aging, and the
ft that services at all levels of complexity are free.
3.        The Government is currently focusing on the need for corrections. Moreover, in
spite of large increases in health expenditures, 17 percent of the populaion is not covered
with adequate health services. In combination with measures to introduce competition in the
health sAvices and raionalize costs in the public health sector, the Health Sector Reform
described lsewhre in this report includes the introduction of qualitative changes in the typa
of health seices that are offered. These changes are onented to respond to variations in the
epidenmiological profile toward incrasing pralence of chronic and degentive conditions
which cannot be adequately trated under the present setup of health facilities, programs, and
staff Imowledge. The changes dedgned apply mainly to the primary health care level. A
subsequent stage wold be to introduce apropriate changes at the in-patient level. Terms of
reference for studying those changes have already been prepared. The qualitative changes in
the prvision of health sevices should be seen in the context of other modifications in the
systm - financial,           and mnagerial - tat are described in other part of the
report.



-102 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNES 5
HALTH  SECIYR RWORM PROJCT                     Page 3 of 16
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTIEM COMPONENT
deelo          of local heah system  (areas de &alud (this was adopted as a ceal conept
of the new model In the 1991-94 Health Sect Reform pla, see Annex 1, and will be
descrbd latr). In 1991 ther wa an evaluation of the process of integation of services
which found that the prooess was wel defid but is imp       lagged behind
ppectatlons; also, lttl if any tainng of peasond  been caied out tu impkment
integration. In Mach, 1992, another evaluation revealed similar problems. These
assessme_u binded dth ther was an urgent need for redefining the model of healt care,
and as a fis  stop it was essental to achieve a f  integrto of health services under one
agency (CCSS), mak a ralt  a egolized             tmin the hes  shff w         to
the demands of the new model, and improve resources and commuity ivolvement at the
local level.
E. lbe Reddined Health Cae Model
9.        All healt sevie facilites and a group of agreed perso     wil be transferred
f.m the MOR to CCSS. Key steps to as  the provision of heah servic  under the new
model are the             of managerial and budgetay fncmtions to the CCSS Regional
Offices, and the formal esbhment and recognitio of 74 Health Areas as units of work,
groupig an arry of health fclties with vadous levels of complexity. The health service
staff will be organized into 700 Baic Teams for Compreensive Health Care (S)
(functions describd in pam. 12). It is also essential tht a workble refeal system for
patent be in effect. Summing up, oraizational and  i        chas are a pre-
requisite for the Implmentation of techica chags related to the new model. Although in
the beginning most of the health 8fcties and services will be provided in CCSS health
faities, with CCSS peson, the concept of the new model forees that each PRgion wili
negotat with private providers the delivery of servces in specific are  or health
estb-lishments, in cases where it is d_ternined that such rangements would be more cost-
effective and would promote higher quty (hat financing altertfives are discussed in
Annex 4).
10.        he distncve ca_rcest  of the new model include:
(a)  Inegrtio of prventive and curative services in the Health Areas, focusing on
falies, and enng contuty of doctor and other health personnel for
pesonal health can-,
(b)  Bsablis   of e      logic surveillance in each heal area for local planning
and measuremn of prgres in health outcomes;
(c)  Impeme  of service quality as a c    ce of the delegaton to the health
areas, of budget and decision-making, as well as responsbility for outcomes, and
as a result of competito among pwviders; the system will also rely on a new
system of Quality Assurance (QA) to be developed initially for primary care
(desribed in Annex 8);
(d)  Universal coverage aed  byco               -  throhenhauced
deficiency of CCSS services, increased colleco  and greater   onsibiliy for
costs dqending on affordailt (Annex 4);



- 103-
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX S
HEALTH SECTOR REIFORM PROJCT                   Page 4 of 16
SOCIAL SBCURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
(e)  Special attenton and qopouites for rsving the problms of non-compliance
with the referral system; and
(t)  Thruggh         on of plas for health service provision, Ireased
involvement of the people in the evolution of a health system that is responsive
to the needs of the community.
F. Primahy Leve of Health Care
11.       Health care facihites at the pdmary lewl wil offer a minim package of
integated (preentive and curative) senrices comprig the following proams: (a) child
healh care (for children 0 to 9 years) (specific content of p a   axe lsted in tables 2 to
5); (b) a  Wdlecet care; (c) adult care; (d) eldedy care; (e) genea  activities available to all
groups including heath promodon and   cat,     mlogic survellance, referrals,
nvironmental proteion, promotion of community and iner-sectoridal involvement; and (f)
evauato and reseach The health team from each area, under the Area Chief (desigated
among the existing manager of health fcilities) will be responsible for the provisico of the
pakge.
12.       The number and type of human resoures needed to offe the mimum package
of primary health car services is the EBAIS, defined as the mininum necesay for
prvidng services to 3,000 to 4,000 people. The mmbers and type of health psnnel by
institution are presented in Table 1. Each EBAIS would have a general prctitioner, with
functons and actvities listed in Table 3. Docts would be asisted by one primay care 
technician and one nurses'aide, whose functon by program are described in Tables 2 and 4
respectively. The numbers in this team are an average and will vary slightly in each area
depending on epidemiologic conditons, termin, commnIcA, and distbution of
fclties. With the excepton of nurses, who are scarce and work p inantly in hospitals,
doctor techicians and nurses's aides are available in suf   numben to fill in positions
in the primary level and their replacement due to normal turover is enred by present and
futu  producton by univeies and schools.
13.       There will be a suport team that wiU consist of a social worker, a nutritionist,
family doctor, geneal mnrse, dentst, pharmacist and microbiologist. Similarly to the
EBAIS, the number of members in the support team wil vary tmporaily or permenty
depending on the health condiions of the popuation to be served and the programs tat need
to be emphazed. The              of the members of the prmary heath care team for
offering the basic prmary care packge are sed in Tables 5 and 6 for some of the main
programs.
14.       The health profile in each area will be defined peidcally through special
surveys and will be an information as well as a   m entttooL  t wiU be described
thbough the tadional health indators: mortliy and moibidity rates, causes of death,
outients, accikdes and hospital discages, lfe expecincy at birth, anIhopometric
measurements, incidence and prevalence of the main intious and chronic diseas, etc..



-104-
COSTA RICA               5ANNEX 
EALI  SBCTOR REFORM PROJECT                    Pae S of 16
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTS( COMPONENT
G. Other Detemining Facats
1S.       In1 each heo  area, the haflth team will plan and cany out its p.Mpms on the
bads of updad informato such as popAion sze and composition,       p    and
mlgztoi  8iwth, community orgntion and paoipatin, types of ecoomi activities,
housing and liing condtions. Knowledge and appoprate conecdons n8artg  th
enviramomw conio   wi  so be a responsibility of the healtf team, woidng In
coordiatio with othr            (e.g., watW supply agey, food and  cute,
S_~YM  coto).
H. Prognan Prrizg
16.       Tig into aount epc and other contoning fos, the eonl
_a scum       nW   ddai  pnonypo            s and hdmed    and the stps of d o
popuaon th awe at gnatea  or rsk. Prortes wibell hedon th brAs
Ofie   cdleria reprding ma_kde of the problem,   i            c   u DOB    d bdh.h
impoua, st_g and weaimeM  of the team to contn or endicate the prblm; need
for additi   aol     from higher levels of the system; cost-efeves to be achieved in
aping ceitin re          to address the problem; and reuc  that wold need to be
Invesd to pvnt the problem in the futue. The locl heba  plans wl take in  acc M
this prirtzing proces and will cotain the followig: (a) ralsdc objectives and goals for
Se perod; (b) swlon of activities by poram, determining, for each activiy, the adence
and covom , lky f_qcy and locadon and the member (s) of the team   o        for
the acivity. The loca plan will be costed. Team work will need to replace the cmurent
pcticesof individual, isolated acdons. Trining and development of de  guidlne, in
addition to the pop  ow          changes, will be an essenal higredient in
a cage in theheaft camodeL.
L Loeatiom . EBAIS
17.       TI followig cdleria will deermine the locaton of EBAIS:
(a)  Size, density and distdbu     of the populto in the heal aea;
(b)  Number, type and distbin of fas in the health netwo1c;
(c)  Road network a  accessibility;
(d)  Numbe and type of human resource available;
(e)  equity in the distrbtion of resources in accordac with the health need of each
coummuily;
(t)  adopdon of an instittionxl polic of using the least co  infrastucte  for
providing outpat  care; and
(g)  aalysis of cost-benefit  d economdi  of scae.
18.       Thus, thm will be many posibies of ltg EBAIS and for cdUCtng
heat activies in each Region. For insUce, in udoan areas of bigh population densy most
of the IS    will be lcated in clinics Type m and IV which ae the most comple



-105-
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 5
HEALTH SECTOR REIFORM PROJECT                 Page 6 of 16
SOCIAL SECURT  SYSTB? COMNENT
outie  facilities (faiiies by le  are described in Annex 3). From those clinics, the
technicians wit aing in community health would travel to priority pbces to canTy out
vidst and other avides. Nurdng auxlaries and doctors wil pri  their srices many
from the clinics, but they will also conduct dmiiy visi and other communty ativis,
as required by the adopted p ams. In utban aas with surrounn  emi-ural polaion,
most of the EAIS will be in clinics Type 1, 2 and 3 or in healh centrs ptrviosly under
MOB to be com    d to clinics Type I and 2. On the basis of preia  studies, 23
IALS (            6 penet of the exstg posts) will be locad in prodyl called
heat posts To reach semi-rural or rral areas not aible to healh faities with the
fuU staff complment, the EaS wil make perodic visit to smWaller communities. in some
posts, the only pemanet staff may be a community heah technician; in such cases, oher
membes of the EAS, including the doctor, would visit the cener and provide serices,
following a predetmined schedule.
19.       The system will functon in respon  to community needs rather than fowig
pre-establisbed rigid criteria. Thus, even in urban areas, small clinics (from the CCSS or
opertng as cooperatves or under other fms of ownership) may be a bte altenaive than
constuction of larke muliupose clinics. In such cases, patents requirng specized care
would be refered to higher level clins or hospta. In all cases, lower levl clinics will be
sportd by teams located in igher complexity cHnics and hospials. When two clin  of
the same level serve the same locality, the directors will coonnate programs and cHnic
hedule. They will also share spport to lower level clnics.
J. The Prim    Heat Care Network
20.       A genera deciption of the edstig health network, from primary cae to
trt   level and the mnmber of facilities are included in Annex 3, pam  10-13. Tis sectiod
wil describe h fnctonal aspecs of the primary level. Ihe primary health care network
consists of all aciliti of vaious levels of complexity that provide outaiet services as
well as health promotion, ehabilitaon and envime    control actvities, in a coordinated
manner. The will be the intgrted clinics Type 1, 2, 3 and 4. The nul health posts and
other healfth centers that are now under MOH will be bansfered to the CCSS, with
app i  m od       o  and consoions. They wil vary in complety accoing to
loal condims, n     and resources avalable. In addion, there will be Mobile Med
Units, Mobile Detal Units and Dental School Clinics; the Mobile Units are also available in
the cuttent model. Although clinics Type 4 have complex equipment and secials and
might be consiered as an intermediate level, these are for the moment included as part of
the prmary heath care network. In a subsquent phase of the health sector reform, when
studies are undake and altatives are conadere to improve the hospta networik, it
would be  lvant to include Type 4 clics as part of the trtiary level of health cate. The
following description highlights the differences in the nm of operation that will be
introduced in prmay health care under the new model.
21.       Rul  ealth Posts, Health Cnters and Clinis Type 1. These are the
simplest unit in the primary care network. The different names of 'health post" , health
ceter' and clin Type 1' responds to the histodc fact that the first two were initiaftd by
and still ma  under the MOH and clin  Type 1 fnction under the CCSS. The clinic



- 106-
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 5
HE8ALTH SBCTOR REFORM PROJECT                 Page 7 of 16
SOCIAL SECURrrY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Typ 1 I at presnt curativ oriented, whle the healt pos and center a  intended to
cary out health prmotion and prevention activities and envio sanitaon. However,
a tudy cauied out in 1991W found that nly 23 percent of the heah centers offered dea
serices, less than a quarte (24 percet) concted home visits rulariy, and only 20
percent carried out e e       sanitation actits. Also, prevet  health acvities
were of low Intensity and quality.
22.        he tua poss ar locaed in mote and dispere nru  communities of 100 to
500 populaim. Another type of post, sihy more complex, located in semi-urban areas
may cover up to 1,500 people and has a slighy  rer buldg  and a variable mix of
professonl and auxiy persone. Under the new model, it will not have peanemn staff,
and will be manned by volunters. It wHi be vited peridicay by the health peronoel
from the cormspondlng EBAIS. A few health voters will be trained to provide fist aid,
conuct health promotion and refr cases; the unit will function under the supevisi  of the
community. The prima  car technician will visit the post peiodicaly (weeldy or
monthy), a doctor and a denist will visit a minimum of every tbree months. The buiing
wM bahve 60-100 sqwre mete, with a conting and tratment rooms and a tbird
multipurpoe room. As mentoned earlier, under the new model 23 of them will house the
EBAIS. Health Ceters will also be converted into clinics, Type 1 or 2 dqpnding on needs.
Mmbers of the Supr Team (geneay specias) wil visit tese centers periodIlly,
folloing a pr-detemined schedule.
23.       The CCSS Clinic Type 1 serves localtis with between 5,000 and 15,000
members and has pemanent staff including, on avepge, I EBAIS per 4,000 population, one
nuse per 5 or 6 }BAIS, and the following team, that may be full time or shared with other
cters depending on the populto covered: social work, pharmay technician, lab
t ician, detl technician and detl asisant; there is also one denst per 12,000
populati. Type 1 cnics are housed in 150 to 500 squawe mers buildings, with 2 to 4
mdical conslti  moms, mnrsing offie, emerncy room, opertif  room for minor
suwrgey, lab, phamcy and several other fcilCities. The diffrence between heal posts,
beal cent  and cinics Type 1 is evident from this description. Under the new system,
there is no inteto to upgrde all health posts and centers to the currt Type 1 cinic, but
to decide on the type of basic services that commuties need and can support, also taking
into account the category of health worker that can be made available ghi  living condtons
in the respective areas. A vital compont of the primary care servies under the new  model
wil be the health prmoton and preventive modules, including effective intection with the
commuity by the healt peonnel.
24.       Types 2, 3 and 4 Clinics. These clinics will remain as they are under the
present sysem. The only differn  is that teir slaffs will be enJianced with primary care
technician for preventive and promotive functo, many of whom wdil provide specialis
supporto lower level clinis ad pots.
I log. Foma & icmcw Zhu&   BM&MMM de k Nlw& d rMjd  de la   S Dkwck5n de
Pla,4fa, Fderero, 1992.



COSTA RICA
Tabb 1. MOH & CCSS HUMAN RESOURCES
ACCORDING TO CATEGORIBS OF BMIS, SUPPORT TEAMS & OTHERS
-~et -              ___                                   P;  -                         iW                        N    -                X  -
RUNl    TbTta    Osura   Famil    01w    Denta   Mic.-  Uhgme-  PrOSu.   &oci     Nuari    MCal    Deil   erra                     .   Nuea'   01*.
bmwf          _         ft      =*       Dow       fe     _ow        am      am        Wow     _      T_b                Ca               As __b   
I                                                          J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TocIam   Tacb&
C.C.8.8.      259    662'          15    1,855'm    in       351      204    1,476      210       28      112      12        0_       0    3,225  17,145
5,718     134       0       93       1si51    46        171    154       54       37        o      182      538      140      439   3543
|Toal         31,31      796       IS    1,948      3391    397       221   I1.60       264       65      32       310      a        140    3,664  20.98      
_atvlO,000   9928       0.43    O     5  6.3      1.10     1.29    0.72      5.28     0.86     0.21     0.98     1.00     1.74    0.45    11.87   67, .00
babkua          101   23,042  205.81  1,85    9,           7,778   13,971    1,894   1        47-.1503   10,224    990    5.739     05       84       14
BWWo b Gem D          s"4 by CCSS assso oa.0. Oand 5.1
Of 6dMp2mdmbIn t   oW appro%ut  105 vokin  enwm    nud olef bo*    uls
scuzcm        hwnnwfe  Rem=,wmoe fse  RegMs P AWtd  y B*kd                    o, OCS, 1991.
A_uart Eau**, CC88, 1991.
RecwroHwb so por '  On   apumd Sq. Cav de S f y bAW& PAvuw*as dal Wkaito de S4ua, Phvecto Rom  SeMr aS   1992.
iit



Tablo 2.  DF )    ARY EMALTH CARE MODEL
SUMMARY OF PRIMARY CARE C ClANS' ACTIVIIES, BY PROGRAM
|DITS EN D CARES CURN                                      CAE- WOME    RINEGRAIM CARE- ADuLTS  eI3A          E. CAM   SrLY
HOM VISMIS MOR 1AiLY CAR  REERAL FMCO NTRACEMB       VEIS FM EARLY       ROME V    FOR DECIN    ME CAR V_I FM IS
Ce NEWBOS               CONSULTATO AND WIDANM PJ AC  DTECWN              AND FOLLOW-UP OF UK     GROS
GROUPS
BM S  FIM GROWTH AND HOMB VITS FRM IRALS e OME VISIS FRM IRUNATAL                                HOME VLVS TO FOLLOW UPON
DEVELOWEENT SUFERVION tCAS FM CONTRACMEF        PATENT FOLLOW-UP         HEAL  EXAMTON                ILY RIL PAT1U,
CCNSULTATON MAD A UIDNU                         RE1UL                     AltA, T
HOME VTSO FOLLOW UP ON                          note VSIS FOM EARLY                              CARDIOVASCJLA  SEMASE
ATK IIN                 RERRAL CO CASE FOR               OF VOSTNWAAL    J0  VSIS FOR FOLLAW-VP   lOXC
GROWTH AND DEVELPN         CAos                  OF C C AND UENTAL
OME VISITS TO FOELW UP ON CaOLTA2I                                       Ill&SE                  GROUP EDVCAI FM
NIC       KL uJIDR                              HO&ME VIS AND REFERRAL                           PREVNIFON OF MEAL
lOME Wrns FOR GROWT AMD FOR CONTaI  GDAN2 HE- AMD COMUaT-UEVEL PROBLE
VACCINTION Pc CDDREN         1       S    l    ClSUTATX                  OR" AM  VIDUfl
DUINm  VSITS                                                             EDUCATON                 OaME VISS TO FOLIW UP ON
HNOM VlSltS FMR FDlOW.UP   OMME V FMPTS FEt RISCKY                       PAT I
R   aL CP PATIES Wl   AN REFERROMAL CPCAMF CE CuNS  UREGNANCATIEGMAS                                          AM
DENTAL ROSLM            01OTIONAL PROLM AND                              HEALTH P    AN mDIN    READTMNT
MTALt I S                OME VSIS AND REEALS  HME V1SIRi
S:CPATIEN BEFERRA                             FM icum  Sjm                                     BM   EXt FM EEAWLTEM 
REERAL FR DENTAL                                 B                       R >A2
VP STO FWlJMPONM CON8ULTATM                   NOU gVBU  AM REPERIAL   PREV       lUEN AM DT_  @
CEILDE lUNDRON                                  IR COMULTATION ON        OP WORELATD HAZA        DEAtH REPORTS
IEHABIIZrAMIOIIJRUCRY    REERRALm FL LUNS       CERVIAL CANCRt CARE     AND   11ES SE                                       ii  n
CONSULTATO                                                                       OF PATIET W                     .
INDIVIDAL AND GROFOLL-UP Of CRVIAL                                       SIC NAT R8EEAL              ALPRS                   -
EIXUCATION              RFERRAL AMD POLLW-UP CS  CANCR PATIENS               Ia
HI1-R  CAME                                     REPERUL CF ENYnNTUAL                                    e
PPANRCPTION IN IlEALTH                          HOM VIStlS AND _EERL     PXlO         SK;
DIlAGNOSS                WTMUNIATNS             FORABUSDWOMENQ
CASE REPORm  ON LOCAL
PARTIWATEON IN CCA    INDIVIWUAL AND GROUP      FOLLOW-UP CF ABUE CASES   DISEAUS CONTROL SYSTiM
,.WM                    TIN mT3
~~~~~~~VSI TOON  EDUCAOIO
DEICT=`UNFNPAVOAI=<
INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP
EDUCATIN
PARTATIN IN LOCAL
DINOE AND CIMCAL
SESINS 
,,  _ _.-                  i     1H      .     , I_I.



COSTA RICA
Table 3. RPDR3ED RMARY HBALTI CARE MO.L
SUMMARY OF DOCTORS' ACTIVITIES, BY PROGRAM
WNTWIGRATBD COE CSIEN  zIATD CAR8:                 IRAIITD CARII WOM     DqhATED CAARE       WRA ADmLI S INEATED CRe- ElDERY
ADOuZCm___
V TO NEW, N AM       HE AND POSTO4 UAO?  HOM   S WM   EARLY NATAL Wh VS TO DEIECT AND   ROME VMIS AND REFERAL OF
REGATiOK FOR GROWTFR    MECONTRACPIVE G1IDANC  CARE                     PFOI0W-UP ON Rl GOUIS   RCASES
AND  ELOr              AMD CARE
COIUULTaTION                                    ME- AND POST- ENATAL     HEALTH E(&RTN           PRE- AM PW4YNULTATW
PE AND POST4CONSULTATlON  COMSULTATION          RME (ZRL FRCSEICALY NIL
}  AND POST-CONSULTAIOtM ON 1ROWT AND D                                                          PAIEnT
N GROW  AND                                     PARTCPATION CI ]UDRE   SOME S VM    POLLW-UP tP
DBVEI.OKINN   1    1    ME- AND POSTAM -WSS AREPARATION CLASSES          CaRoNIC AND MENTAL      ROME VASHow   TO 7010W UP ON
CONSULTATION                                    IaESSS                   C1NWSALY DL PATJES
ATHOME XFOlOW-UP or mm-                         REURALOPEGA!                                     4NT ES, NITA,
RISKIE                  PER- AND PST-COUTATlON  WOMEN Wi MTJAL           PARIICPAIION IN CODUDIG  CADVASCULAR ISEUSE,
FM1 WOW    CA           PRK                     EDUCA7W PROGA             E                        e 
AT-HE POILOW-UP o PA
CIROIaCAlY IUL cIDEN    SE lIxDInaATIONS   ME- AND POST- COIMULTATQNS INDIVIUWAL AND GROUP       NOW VIT AN n2001RALCF
FM POSTNATL CAR         EOUCATION 0HEAL  ISSUES  OX 5PATEN3
STAJDARDIZDVACWNATIS IXVIMUAL AND QRUP
EDUCATION                m  VIS  TO 700WUP hWllON IlWIIATOS GE AT        INAIRSTU SMO
PMNDPOSS119  YA Ii      LTOST4TSD  EALI EDUCATIO
O_i  PCIMDMWI                               PMUIK Du  PRISIIS1  TO_nI  ar guvo                                               :2c
sWIaLp CAVIIES                                                                    AME AND DB J CIP F RUJ OF PATIS WMI
ME- AND POST-CONSULTATO   W -ULAEAZADAND  UMALiNTMSA
F4uw-w o                                      Naw nL          S       LB
Cl=DRBNWSNO~~~~~~~O DIEIIl                                  UUES
sTAANDADm ITMRMATOI SIM1 PATIENT RRAL
ILVDUAL AND GROUP                               M- AND POSTW-ONULTAT1ONS CASM REPORTS FM LOCA
I }  w  c a T K ION                             ON" WomS as.L Nle5       DLUEASE CONSROL SUIEM
IM AND IOST.COISULTATK
ON aRVAL AND BREAST
-_~~DEBtO                                                         ___
REFERRa WA"  CAM
POUOWUP OFASUNCAM
VlSlIro TOU_TO$= I



COSTA RICA
Tabble 4. E NED PRIAY EALTH CARE MODEL
SUMMORY OP NURSE'S AMES' ACTivTI,BY PROGRAM
DTEORAJUD CAM cIu23   DtEGRAD CARE               DITAID CAREM WIECN       DllNSDAT  CAREM ADITS   IWGATED CAME5 BUDI.Y
5EONE CONSULTATKiN =     flI!ACMnWEGUANE    IEONNCA-D CONSULTAtiONS   CULTATINFO             GROUQ C0OSULTAION RSKin
CM8TATIO  AND CARE                               DuCnIEON AND FOLLOWU        = DETECTO1
GROWT AND DEVELOI_E                              PARaIAT   N aIUZERT
CONWLTATIO              GROWTH AMND DEVLIUr   PARATIN CLA&S              REaLTE8XAMIAUTO          OULTATR FM
CONSULTATION                                                              SUPERVISION CF :RLCALY
ONULTATION QFM                                   REERRLAL OP PREAT       CONSULTATION FMR         IL: PA=JS ETA. MEO 
SUmPR   ONof fII-RISK    AllNESS CONSLTATION     WIMN WM DNTAL           SUR           OF CRONIC  CADIVASCULa DISEASE.
cEUm RU                                                                  IUJUSSES, C ARDOVASCULAR  EPO
COMMTAUM AM ROMMAL                     EASRM   -AOE AND
EMITNSULSAPROI DBlE91ANUW NU,AIN NCR             EDEUCATI DLSLT~ liN                                 _ l
CONBSULTATION FOR       OF EM-RISI CASES         POSTNAAL CONSULTAIION    MENTAL UANESSES         GP   IENTAL HEALTH
SUIRVISUONC F (NROMCAUT                                                                           EDUCAZN
CimDREN              RERRAL OF CAMS O         CONTRACPV GUDA           IDVMIDUAL AMD GROUP
SMMOTNAL PR    OAND  CO)NsTAliNM AM CAMRBAT                      DCXTOlfNSTATRlMR }OMtC 
ONSULTATIONZ FOR ILLNESS   MENTAL LNS                                                             PAT:E                      ,  A
FIOLOW-UP AND SUPE_ION   RMUNIAZN TEFERRAU 
tREFRRAAFM              REFRAL RO CASES  O SOCIAL CF RISICY bW15                                   lERMALUSOF PATIETS TO    s    Q
AND RECOV               STtYO                                             CONSULTATION FPM        SPECALQ
RISHISRALOFMM-8W CfIREVENDOINAND DECnION CF
REFERRALOF CEN          RERRALOFCASPE O           'ANCIE1                WDKRELAI  UAZARDS AND  LAL ANALYSIS OF MAA TA
IOIXTATION am WORM                               RHPPRIURAL OFPATiET WIM
REFERRALCI CASES FAR                             CONESS LTATIOS W    SiE    DTEAL PRKSOB
NUTIONAL CONULTATIN                              PATENSWQ
CERMAL OCAN= DBTECIZO                                                            >
NIVIDUAL AN     P ON"SULTATION                    mE VIT TO FOLLOW UP ON
EDUCATION                                        CASES OF  ECTW
JAO  AND FOXLPAWO   COTAGIUS DIE9AM AND FM                         
CERVAL OR ERAT CANCR  DIASE CONSRM  PURPOSES
PATIENTS
CONTATION FOR CARE AND                                                      ii
IDENIICATIN OF ABWSED
V8  TO BUl_S 7TO
REFERRAL OF RISK CASE
INDrDUAL AND RiP                                                              _
IAND aC sm                                                                       5



COSTA RICA,
T     S. WM (l OF                BY ACIVfrY AND TIP  OP PRIMARY CARE PEONNEL
CpM DRBNS PROGRAM'
Aodv*       .0.   AB    TAP       M    TS. [MM. [PS. I. -               I                [  M
N   4 1'o                           ... ..  +. ..                                                           ++
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  C  CA  VD  at   R     Ci.                                                R
GzoWhadDMIopmat  teColt       +++4. +++    ++       ++       +     + ++  +4 4--                                      ++
C     PBR   VD       I      R      BO            RAN.                  C
I~~ ~ ~ ______'_______'___ -                  ----                                                             -,}_. '.
.. '  mdP ftow4IofMAI-Riakan  ...         +..  +.           ++    + +     ++'   ++             ++                    + +
P      VD                         
C                    I       I     BO      I      I    R_N    am
CpmrandmtPoll1woup,af CbrcAodfy   ...4              4-4-         ++  +    + -  +4        +      +
ai4dro.                               -       -      I      I       o      I             R      R             -
Vascinjima                           +4-4-  4-4-4-          ++ +   R+
Dental Pro eL. C_idu                                                  . +    --   .                   +f
R   a                                  a                               c 
*   Deatar                                    -      -                                                 -             +      -
DIueCam                        ..            +++                   ++     ++                           +             ++
Relobilitalloo .Ad R.esay     +4     + ++                          4-++4. +++   +++   +++
c.enntavutlm                   +      ++    ++             ++    ++         .1.++    '++
RBNdud                        ...   4-4-_ _+ ...   ...   ++4 4     +4    4-_   4--+  _+++   +_+   +++   =_   =
Flwap                         ...    4- ++     4    ..    +++    ++                                    +- ++
Doa* Reort             ...+++                      .._   .               ++       +    +++ +++  
APvW Los.    ..    .. +++    +++   +++                                           ++    ++    ++ ++ .
Dihq--                                 - - - ___  __  -- --___+                  -  -++                -   -  +    __..
Camy4.                                      ++     +++                          +++ +_++   ++  ++             4
Pbomo            MO  Go_  Pl-a aeoiioo NU  -Ntwo       A-NamesJUd             CA-1allo!u
)s Afic Moo       PS  Pqbow         TS 1   aSoial Wotbr   h11 -  Psa Doe  .''t ++ -  vd ati  hi
O  DeOl Sutgeweo = Nu         b      COMU  - C_mi    TA?wNiP Cmr Te
C VbI*            VD - EHwVietit   Q   "ViatdR          Pft o-          P ami                                         §
R - Itohnd        I s wunai         BO -3 Gw op BRato  TAI-Me  Ticldoo2
- - - -   -    -       -       -      -     -      -      -       -~~~~~~~t;
Dseahlq,od  +4-4-  4-4-4-    +4-4-  +4-4-          4-4-   4-4-   4-4-   4-4-0W 



COSTA RICA
Table 6. MATRIX OF RBSPONSIBIIES BY ACTIVTY AND TYPE OF PRIMARY CARE PERSONNEL
:EL RLY PROGRAM'
A__            M.G.    AR      TAP     UP      TA.    INP    P.S.  NMU         F P     M       O      PART   O.INS.
Eady De£ts   afftke*G ,w"    ++  +             ++       +       +      +       +       +       +       +      +,+   o  _de.
C      VD      VD     IC       VD      R       R       R       R      ftR     R       R    Ancgm
ottb.chts.luUyffi    +++  ++      ++       +       +       +      +       +       +      ++       +     +++   oubde
c    Pt" Pa    VD     IC      BG-R    BO      BO      BO CG           R       R              Low
_________________      ~~VD                                            C
- -- -                                                    -+ --"e -t+                                    --    -
DMA                    +++   P-o Po"   +4       +       +       .++   +        +       +      4+      4+      +4    AN.
C      ++      VD     IC    DO-ft   BO        BO      BO      DO      R       R
VD                                             C
CM_aroamrDus.          .4.   PrR pas+   +4      +       +      +       +       +       O       O+     +       F++
C      +4      VD     IC    DOf    DO         DO      Do      BO      a       a
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~VD                            C
EPOC                  +.++   PM A      ++       +       +      4                               O 4     O 4  4  ...
C      44      VD     IC       R-ft    BO     DO      BO      DO R             t .
__________________     ~~VD                                            C
meowRlimi Pteeadon     +        +       4       +      +4      ++    ..+       +       0       0       +     +.+
BO     DO      BO      IC      DO      BO      c       R                       a
crfbt WOt lnmm         444      +      ++       +       ++ +           +       +       0       0       0     +
C      VD      VD     IC       f      DO    BDO       DO
________+++__                                            ft +O_             _        O-_o    -_       
RabilitatandSOoa        +       +      ++     +       ++               +..     0       0       0       0     .+.
R*WbIistmet             DO     VD      VD      DO      DO      DO      DO3
lamhU+                         ++at%n                   + +  +4  +  +I. + +    444     4       +              + ...
]_________             DO      VD      VD      DO      DO     sO      DO      DO      BO      DO      BO
O  aSlSme- 3P       - Nu          -O- _                        AP-        -        -      -o -o -A               -  
PEalfurala           .+.      0      0       +4      0       0       0       0       0      0       0      9-44
R~~~~~~~~~~~ R
Death fgtZ              +4     +4      +4       +       4      4       +       +       +       +       +       +
Adiit Ls br $ddd$W +     +4+    +4+       +       4      4       4       +       4       4       +      4+
conte                                       I 
Bmu;-O; oyDstaCm        0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0     +4      +4
F  PharmcIs       MO -Oemal Pkacddow MU   -Nutkldoai                AR - NuzgmW Aid         ft - Retwa
M  MlcrobiWolog   PS -FycbdoogSt     TS     SoaM Woidu,             MF  Family Dogor         VD - Hon. Visi
0- Dosta Surgen    MP - Numg         COMUN  - Conwunidy             TAP - PdMy Cars TedallnW    TAI - Me".. Teokii-hu
C -Visit          DO - Group Eucation  PREC/PS - Family Plming Consultatas  IC - VacinatIo



- 113 -
COSTA RICA                      ANNEXS
HEAL7I SECTR REFORM PROJECT             Page 14 of 16
SOCIAL SECURTY SYSTEM CObPONENT
Giaph 1. REDEFND PRRIARY HEALTIH CARE MODE1L
DEFINITION OP HEALTH AREAS
~~~~~~~~~~~M ecmCE
*   ~     *___ ___
N _ m |                               ulm }O
R  _      S-f               
A
L -mI
" ON"^I 
N o
__X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S IL Iw
em -
als
T A*t_                                   I 
E      _W  %o                             I
R poo                                      I 
A'Ow                I                      i       /.
~~~~~LV I                      LM                 LEE III
R * \a/ -
L   omilpe |
0_ I I b_ ~~~~~~~~~~ce maas
O- mmII 
_ "_         ... I                       Isa
Sm7   L,  ~I.                      tvLCVu U          LEVtEL ,,,



-114-
COSTAt RICA                     ANNIX S
EMALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT            Page 15 of 16
SOCIAL SECURI'Y SYSTIM COMPONENT
Gmph 2. RINED PRIMARY  EAMT  CARE MODE
SEBRVICE NTWORX FOR E RALS
[  Service Network  ]
I            B~~~ealth  and Regl
Center or
[ED   Healt    Ou  t  Ie
> *pe     roelf  u I..  Post    °   aie
PWJ    eIhbrho    nditric       Region
8ectsn     wok                             Distrd its  Zs"
unit
r_ n "_ 9no - 2M00hf
a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  e_ aso  IW 30  0             l
AsslL Ae. Nmrs aN         m     on,    _ 
I!or uel mN" amd   Asdio A.P. be           1SId
Bmt wor 



COSTA RICA                                     ANNEX S
HEALTH SECTOR REFOtRM PROJBCT                             Page 16 of 16
SOCIAL SECURrfY SYSTEM Co)POKENT
Graph 3. PRMARY HEALTH CARE MODEL
SYSTEM OF REFERENCE AND CO
SECONDARY & TERTIARY LEVELS
*  A          +            4+                A'
_  (4)            (4)         _ (4)   (3)-   -(4)   ()    -(4)             -P
-              -              -f-t- f R                                 CL4          A
a          -              a     --                                                V1  
w a  -                  EE
CLi~~~~~~~~~~
t(2)         (2)            (2)            (2)            (2)       L
IT Rt 4S1 ,,,                                                           ..   t
4---M  ago                                U* _4610  Uwe                             Pak
oh   _"morza                       _ twn                     for my  *1 me b
(1)    Mm ls complx hfa   reh  to twe ne       w bvel-
(Z)    If a givn unit does aot have the ca y to bunt a padeit, it chooses the rf alikiy, accordn to neos, nd
sead dh pat direcly. The sm proceode is follorwd for m      _    .
(3)    0* lic. of lved 2,3, ad 4 can refr to th 2ad and 3rd leel, if the reqod sevic is unavailable in a
levd cinic     eshdared d am
(4)    AR *fe        rdla dre*yto a ho s ain cam of ur myt q e. MrITho   ff                    w 1e
_  chnnl., esecially to the bae unik of th crespondn  EAJAS docom r of the aendig p1yuician



COSTA RICA -
IALITI SECOR REFORM PROJECT
SOCLAL SECURrTY SYS   CO(MONENT
SUMMARY OF TMNICAL ASS*TANCE
(In pmu-nowlhs)
NAT1ON,L  ONSULTANj    INIRNATIONAL CONSLTAN7,
COWONENT                   Yr I   Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr4      W    Yr 1   Yr2 IYr 3   Yr4   TOa        TOTAl
INSTITUTITNAL DEVELOPMNT                  135    89    65       6     29S    200    38    21      8      315      610
_°_t0tain orvai61    40    is                                 4      120    78    37                    115      235
um_ haw  onb1tin                         125   120    63    25    333                                            333
H_um Resurs                              24    24    10       2      60      1     1      1      1      4        64
n      o     dModil                      20                          20     21                          21       41
Swum 48a 
RBDEUED MC MODEL AND QUAl1TY               34    10      8            52     10      1      1     1      i3       65
ASSURANCE
Redeflod MC Modd                          17    10     8             35      1     1      1      1      4        39
Qalt AuIt 17                                                         17     9                           9        26
FINANCIAL                                 136    81    so    20    331    32    14         8             68       399
MANAGMNT AND RESOURCE
MODIUZAmON
Rewoure_                                 SO    30    16       6      102    22    13      a             43      145
PUot Modls                               16    25    S5    25    121               5      5      S      is      136
Res=M cMabi mi                           70    26      9      3      108    8      2                    10       118
SYSTEM OF LABORATORIES                    30                          30     10                          10       40
PRWCrCORDiNATIONUNfT                      12    12    12    12    48         10     8      8      8      34       82
PROJBCr TOTAL                             347   192   165    52    756                                 1440       196.
-~~~~~~~~~ =



-117-
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 7
HEALW   SBCItR REFORM PROJECT                   Page I of S
SOCIAL SECURIIY SYSTEM COMPONENT
PROJECT COORDINATiON UmT (CU)
1.    A piect C       n  Unit (PCU), ropoting direcdy to the E1 utve Pwsident of
the CCSS, would be esablished for the durai  of the proJect to aciit  prwje
Since this unit also mangs the IDB priect for the eform of the healt
sector on the MOB side, the resp ity for this Unit would lie with the Directr General.
A Proct Director would be appointed to manage the Bank project on a day-to-day basis.
The PCU would hbve two sections - Adm an and  nance, and Institutional
Dvlopmet. In addition to its  raespo nsilities, the PCU would eceive guidance
from and act as scry to the Central Coordtng Commite comosed of the Minister
of Plning and Eonomi Polces, the Mins  of Health, and the Exectie Pede  of
the CCSS, and would have an advisory Technical Coordiato Committee composed of the
Mangers of the tree CCSS Complees and the Director of the CENDEBSSS.
PCUFucin
2.    Specifically, the PCU will
(a)   Comply, in the procof prje  imp       ion with the directives defind
by the Centiu Coordiating Commite;
(b)   Estabsh operational peures for the implemenion of the proect and its
wih  the objectives of the project and the conditios agred in
(c)   Develop and implment a finncial administation system for the prject, the
procde f and con0tols for loan disbursemen  and coerpart funds to enable
adequate monitorn and control of implean of the anual investment
plan;
(d)   Provide tedLnical, financial, nd admistraive astnce and control of the
implaon of each compo  and activity by each of the e      g  units,
giving special attendon to the ins onal changes and operat  poicies that
support    health sector reform for the CCSS, and to the pilot testing of
regions and alerdve models planned for the project;
(e)   Ppe tems of reference, wpervise the hiing of csltants under tems and
satishctoy to the Bank, and supervise the work of consla    who
will assist in i       th project compoents, carrying out the stuies
and the pilotteng of      e models of health care and financing
schemes;
(f)   Assist and supervise CCSS ut in the formulation of bidding conact for
aproved sbprojects  uevise the draftig of conacts between the suppFis
and CCSS units for execution of the subpwojects, and pacipt in the
evablation prooess for awarding the contmcts;
(g)   Assist the ex n units   the pruement required for proect
implemenion, and ensume tat the procurement of civil woak, goods
(equipMt), servioes and/or stuWs under execudion are in ie with the
requiremens of the work programs for each project;



- 118 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNBX 7
HD3ALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 2 of S
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
(h)   Roview and approve on a piniaiy b4ss the document produced by
comnslant and request fia apprval of these documem  by CCSS and the
Bank, as iequired$;
(i    Advise CCSS units of the fonmulation and    a ent of the healt sector
reform subprojects, providig training and support for reolving any problems
that may arise in the vaious phas  of preaton and i non;
O)   Coordinate and control the flow of fuds for subprojecs under execudon,
repot g on the needs and progess of disbuents, and assemble the
necessary infomaion to request from the Bank rimbursements of the funds
utlized to exeute the proect actvities;
(k)   Require from CCSS units periodic reos on the physical an financial status
of the subprojects;
(O)   Mintain a record of the status of approved taini  projects under the HIuman
Resnures Development Fund, the amount Wproved and disbrsd, and
progress indicators for each training project under cuon;
(im)  Act as CCSS conteipart for the World Bank mision with respect to the
prertion,    ination, submision, execution and other activides related to
the project;
(n)   Advise the CCSS and the Cenal Coordinaig Committee on matters
conceming the project, reportng periodically on their physical and fiancial
progress, and proposig correctve measu;
(o)   Develop and maintn a icumentation system for the project in order to
genae complete and 3updated infomaton on the progress of the
implementation plan for each of the, components and of the project overall, in
line with specific indiors, and to permit the production of perodic reorts
as agreed with the Bank-, and prepar semi-annual progress repts and any
spel reports requed  by the CCSS or the Bank;
(p)   Organize and coodnae the aal review meeigs; and prpar terms of
reference, coordinate and carzy out the mid-term rview of project
implementon; and
(q)   Prepae, with the sort of the executing units, the Project Compledon
Report as agreed with the Bank.
Orgnizton of the PCU
3.    The Technkal Cwrdination Commtee wi be composed of the CCSS Manags of
the Pensions, Integrated Health Care and Fmancial Manag t Complexes, the Director of
CENDHSSS, and                of the PCU. The Director of the PCU Insitudonal
Development Unit will act as scrtar to the Commite. This committee will have the
respnsiblt for reviewing the anmnal work plans. and budgets, and would meet regulady to
review project implementation iss, address policy, strategy and organizatial problems
that could affect project exection and take or suggest corrective meaes to overcome these



-119 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 7
HEALTH SECTOR RIEFORM PROJECT                   Page 3 of 5
SOCIAL SBCURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
constaints. The committee will also review findings, recommendations and action plans
esulong from speific studies.
4.    Office of the PCU
(a)   Dim=  Gelend - will have the reWonsibilty for overseeing project
implementaon acvities of both the IDB and Bank projcts. The Director
Generla will rspond directly to the Executive Prsident of the CCSS and will
be the Haison betwee the PCU and the Central Coordinating Committee. The
Director CGenel will keep the committee informed on the peo nce and
progress made in project implementation, assess the project's constrits, and
take meaures to overcome the consaints. He will submit for review the
fidings, recommendations or decsions related to reforms of instuional and
operational polcies result  from reviews, stdies, monitring and evaluation,
and the pilot testing of alternative models of health care and  g
schemes;
(b)       Projet    - will have the rsponsibility for managing the day-to-day
opeaons of project implemenation, and will coordinate direcdy with the
Managers of the Pensions, Integrated Health Care and Financal Managemen
Complexes, CCSS executing units, the CENDEISSS, regional d   and
other public or private institutions to speed up project ipleme . The
Project Director will also supervise and coordinate the inenal work of the
PCU units.
(c)  Institional DfyelpmerJUnit - will assist in the implementation of the CCSS
Institutioal Development Component Taining Proram, Manpower
Plannit, Management Informaion System; the pilot tesing of alternative
models of financing schemes; and the implemention of the redefined primary
health care model. In addition, it will be responsible for the studies related to
the implementaton of the reform program. It wiU also prepare the semi-
annal reports to be submitted to the Bank, and will be resonsible for
preparing guidelines and procedures related to anmnal work plans and budgets,
monitoring of project perfomance and impact evaluations.
(d) Admiation Financ Unit - will be responsible for the nve
management and financial control of the project, maintain updated accounts,
disburements, auditing reports and will prepare the semi-annual reports on the
financial performance of the project. ITe procurement secaist within ths
unit would be responsible for assistng the CCSS executing agencies and the
INCIENSA in the procurement process.
5.    Staffing Requirents. The PCU wil be staffed with about: (i) six full-time high-
caliber professionals, with eperience in their respective professional fields, preferably with
experience in project implementatio or simi  nature; (fi) I technial staff in sWtistics and
data processing, and (iii) 4 senior secari. ITe PCU operations will be financed under
the loan. The Bank wiUl approve the terms of references for each of the professional
posidons, and wi review the CVs of the professonals prior to their appoients.



- 120 -
COSTA RICA                            ANNEX 7
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJBCT                     Pag 4 of 5
SOCIAL SECURIrY SYSTEM COMPONENT
6.    Stfng R       ire   by Worn Aa.  h PCU will be composed of a Director
General, who wll be in chare of the Health Sector Refom Progm  for both the MOH
- -ect (financed by the IDE) and the refom of the CCSS, fianced by the Bank; a Poject
unAector, who wouldbensible for the mplemeatin of the B -finaned prqject; the
Diector will uperise the work of the Coordinator for I      De, who wil
lad a team of ou senior poes     ls -an isdtution        pme   pcia    economist,
publi health and Quality Asance speciast and an Impon   s            (s      n);
and of the Coordintor for dnion and Fiance, and the senior pcumt
secl. Four senior swi support the ui as wel as one technician in
and computers.



- 121 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 7
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PtROJECT                   Page 5 of 5
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMNENT
Graph 1. PROJECT COORDINAION UNIT: ORGANIZATION CHART
COORMMDI?N
[ PRESIDU    OF TE
C.C.S.8.   
1=~~~~~~~~~~~~
DIRECTOR
INS UINLAOMUINISAI1O AND
DEVELOPUEIT UNIT                       PINACE UNIT
COMlYTEE           4_R^L~~~~~~CODrA
r--
_o *
-TuIes tnarrmen
-E     _aiflu
-Ialonmlo
Syde
MM



-122-
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 8
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                  paI of 11
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION: KEY INDICATORS
A. Prqjet Monitring and Evalatio
1.        The PCU would be eonsible for monitoring and evaluation of all prect
components, using poces and peromane Indiators. Each impl    n  division in the
CCSS, as wea as INCIENSA will be resonsible for the timely provision of the data inputs
to the com       mo g system, in accordance with a pro Atablished fequency (ie.,
motly, quately, semi-uy or annualy). The PCU will collc informatn fiom the
implementing diviso  or ageces (eletrnilly wherever posible) and will urtake the
neessary alyses of project progress and prepr repots which would be submitted on a
semi-al basis to the Bank  Ithe data to be proessed by the prject mitoring system
dsould be relevat to the manage  of the repective components and usef, on a day-to-day
bads, to take decions that can improve the implementation pmcess. The monitorig system
wM assess progress towad aceving specfic objectives in each component. Te expcted
produt wil be measured in tetms of -What, How Much, and When?" these objectives will
be achieved. Table 1 includes the list of indicators, target dates and pacet
a    plishmen  that should be aimed at, in implemenIg the vaious compon . The
lis  f measuable actiies and targe will be eviewed by each  lementing division or
agecy before niating prqect mplemen      Revisions would be agreed with the Bank
nd adopted   taer.
D. Qualty Assurne
2.        The sysem of Quality Assunce (QA) to be developed tough this project
conts of a program for evaluaton of primary care, as a firs step to enable the CCSS to
eventaly eaish on-going QA for all levels of services under a diverty of service
pwviders, based on agreed indicators. QA is defined as the optimum esult that can be
achieved in a pacular ficility or area, given the tpe and amount of resocs available.
The objective is to provide a tool for managers to measure the difference between the
optmm ad able and actual resu, using spefic idators. Such indicato  would be
measures of conditions regain the stucture of the health servs, implementon
progress or f_aus in the pocesses, and measre of outcome of cae (measur of resuls);
they would enable compais   among disticts or aras, and would encourage intvention at
an early stage, when problems are detected.
3.        The soumces of infomation for the QA ssem in lare padt exist; the system will
encouag better utilizadon and a more dynamic ptocess for defing tht pesent condtions
regaring primary ealth ca  services. The existing sourc  of data to be used inchlde:
newborn rgistris, vital and healft sta, consulon reiss, patent records in
hospits, laboratoi  and outad  clinics, and vaccintion program resies. The system
will r   ir n additon sample surveys of facilitis and records and sample surveys among
patielts and the public, to assess client satsfation. Another form of data gathering wil
consist of specid sdies to trace back sigft  events that should seldom or never occur,
to Iwesige the cuses and desig improves in health car services.



- 123 -
COSTA RICA                           ANNEX 8
EBALIH SECTOR RE3FORM PROJECT                  Page 2 of 11
SOCIAL SECURT  SYSTEM COMPONENT
4.             objectives of the QA component are to: (a) begin a process of measumble,
steady and sysc   v            of the health services at the pdmary level, .u a tit
StWa; (b) genet awaens among mangers an staff of the quatfiable natue of quat
In the defivery of health sec  and the measur  that may be adopted towand imprved
quality. On a nationa basi, the inicators to be used are: (a) indicatos  at measme t
radns and adequcy of the ifucre and the timeliness and dflfcien  of the
processes; (b) sent    events or outcomes that should mtrIy or never occur (e.g., low birth
wOh,               cidren, va aon failure or comp        s); and (c) tra
conditions, or meaues of outcome for seiected condidons which ar deemed to  flect the
qulity of cae for a group of diseases.  1dcators have alheady been identified, reviewed,
and found appropriae. Table 2 presents a description of the Indcato  (stuctue, process
and resuls), sene evets, and        diseae.
5.        Ihe heath sices modub of the CCSS  nemt Ino            o Systemm
will be made compatible with the ret of the QA system. The sytem will be
Implemented by tainng the eisting health services staff in the maintena    and uwe of QA.
Lcl        an  will provide   s n, training ad in daa aalysi and ptepaaton of
reot.



124 -
COSTA RICA                                   ANNBX 8
HEALTH SECTOR RIEFORM PROJECT                            Page 3 of 11
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Table L ACEIEVEMENT OF KEY AND ROUTINE ACTIVIIES
FOR EACH PROJECT CPONENT AND COMPONENT-SPECiFIC INDICATORS
ComPo_ent/           ndicaor                Desription             Goal  Date or monitoring
-b_-______.__.o.n____.._,   (%) .                                              fcy
KGV s 1 Fulfillment of key    - No. of key activities      xx         Quaery
activides (%)      scheduled for initation wihin the
(starting date)    period
- % inidated within proposd      90
starting date
- % progressing isfctorily       80
Achievment of key  - No. of key aotivities schded    xx        Quatery
activities (*)     for completion within the period
(completion dae)    % compleed as plnned             so
Routino aefivitice    Achievemen of   -Total number of routine aetivities    xx   Quatedy
.6  _nt            routne activities    schedul  for initation during the
(stuiting dat)     pedod
- % initiatedwithmnthe Woposed   80
=ating date
- X progrssing saactoiy          75
Achievemnt of      -No. of routine aivities          xx
routine activities    schedued for completion during
(co4petion dat)    the perod
X completd as planned            75
Totd Aciiviiies   Total Produidon     -Totld No. of prods               xx        Quay
% _atls&fto                      80
L  of loan used over     dAccording to
Bxec          _   planned             -Disbursed                                  sbedule
-New organiation   -Approved by CCSS Board                 Dates according to
into 3 Complexes   -Functioning                                  pln
-New prsomel       -Approved by CCSS Managemet
complement for each -In position
comple in position_
-Development of    -% of CCSS Regional Officesw               Quarwely
Oporaional systems  adpting new strcte in period            according to plan
- CCSS Budget opeaing under
redasigned systm
-% reduction in cost per KM2     25          12/96
with reformed tansport sydem
-Preparatis for    -% of managemnt staff tained      95        Quarey,
Change             during period                           according to plan
-% trained when completing first
___  round                          95        By WI95
-Staff satisfaction    % satisfied with the new system  +60  Yealy survey
-Client satisfatio    % reduction in pbarmacy waiting    1 Hr.    Yearly survey
time
-Utilization of    % consultation time over          8        Semial
physicians' time   contrated time                I_0 S__...__



-                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
__!§ 1                       _1 -'  -:
10~~~~r
11 -                 -                                -             ---
=- -                     =      m                                                  !- 
g I'!ig q t  W X N 010 u~~~~~~~~~~~I
_  _  _   _   _8_uR u  a  8   lE    _              8  w !l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P



- 126 -
COSTA RICA                                   ANN4E 8
EMALTH SECR REFORM POET                                  Page 5 of 11
SOCLAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONRNT
IndicaD                                        Goal  Dae or un4 lng
9b_        t                                                         (%)        fequ
Ibved resourc                                                 Acordin_ to
aocat_                     __                                   s_hodule
Development of uit -Naw Unit in CCSS duly                     Acoing to
costs and eoomic  apved by Board                                Wheu
owlution of edical -tin positon
Purchs of health   -Pilots  tonlng foly            De  94  Inras per
services           % of sevces purhsed fm            1S
pivat provideras
Evasion reductio   % reducieon                       so        by Dec. 9S
Heath oovea  for  % Iu           by OM                         by De.96
Salaried  worikes   _  _   _  __   _   _  _
H &ah coveag for  % insud by CCSS                    95        by Dc. 97
-Recruitment of    -ist submitd to Bank                       Acording to
snior consulant    -Slection                                   sco l
rum for MIS        -contactig
-MI-Testicng in    - Tet Systm  (all mules)                    by De. 94
(a) heath aea      insalled and fntioning
(b) anesegion
-AU areas          -Equipment selectd                          by De. 95
-System, flctiing in all het               by June
amm
-% heah ares wD  ew system        20         Annual
-ntgatd report available at aU               Jun 96
_lZbmtlods20 depaf
4. lNClll_Febility stu*y              -list submitted to Baok                    Accordn to
-Selection                                  shdl
-Contrcftin
jActiite            -To be schedule accrdin to                According to
___________                           Study_results                                schedule
a_=



- 127-
COSTA RICA                               ANNEX 
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                        Pae 6 of 11
SOCLAL SECURIIY SYST1EM COMPONENT
Table 2. QUALITY ASSURANCE INDICATORS
FOR PRIMY HEALTH CARE SERVICMS
frgrm/EiIvnmdlly         Indic,                         Year       Yer)lf IY  Year 4
.,'_______           1. COMPRENSIVE CHIL  CARE R
%nowborsch oked>10           95%        85%        95        95%
days old                                 .
%s ming, metabolio disemaeo _  %        80%        90%       95%
MD)                                           _        __            I
% MD tosis takme corety      90%        80         8S%      90%
% medical oveg, ow  and    90%          80%        85%       90%
dewd. (WSD)oiQ hrofunerl     90
% medied covergo, (OWg)t     70%        60%        65%       70%
' Sndit  e   eedb nchioat 26 y      a 4 o
%     y moet n ind yatos u red &  90%   70Xr%
.,           ~~~~Weighe at nlaea  inc uyear                        0
-3            *   C 5 p~~<Sy ., ma5%dm     Sm.    10% M            7%    5%
sm_n  Em  -for  bue    of vacc acO,tim        24x0,000  4xt0,0600             2xll0,000
-CanU Pkr       Comuai    < 10 yts.I
cam w i1 be    licidcoo of msdado > 10 yrs.  .SxlOO,00o  WxlO,00O  .SxlOO,O0O .SxlO0.000
..~~f           %So upsdEXBALS HQs with pm    cold    985%  80%     90%       98%
163 bidrMe widi low weig* at  90%       80%        8S%        90%
|            ~~~~bir (LWI) folHowed up daft
fiatYew.
% LWB mnoths satife  with    80i        75%        78%        805
fonvwup                   I
TrotDls_ for    % dbikhmW  ON[ propey        80%        70%       7S%        80%    I
Canl Cll lnm: cared Ibr (> 90 scale 0-100)
Odds (mdl
.~      ~~ ADOLESCENTEALT rCAtEW PRGA
foLXowed (sample)    % fisiwpacyadolescents     80%        70%       75X        80%
IsWd wiothi cm roved 
af S_dd to be o rot by no r Yedul Y    4 of fth pjw
ShbOd area anbey moltrng hicatudw the pxiect.



- 128 -
COSTA RICA                                  ANNEX 8
HUALTH SECOR REFORM PROJECT                             Page 7 of 11
SOCAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Pa     lACtty               I                  S|andard I Year 2        Year 3     Year 4
3. WOMENI'S HEALTH PROGRAM                _
Sentinel Event:     % discharged firom deliveiy,  10% maxL   5f% max.  12% max.  10% max.
lBth1neal       .  with less than 2 yrs. interval
between pfOCiOS
P% postgpafter doivn   ,        90%       7.%          80%        90%
twith >3 prenat  visits
% wiome  4_-e5 _rs   y,         80%        65%         90%        9_%
wp ach rit ved cw  iha  fis
_     pppos  im  women followed    80% a      75% m      801%         80%
up d   4.g fad moAb af OOr
delivety
T% d1livens or 1:  aientshr4d   of aro  1% max.  10% max.   8% max.   5% max.
Xnpess ctl) %    % women 4S565 ys.,                80%        65%          S%        80% 
podePap. smem u hospitalsd, who had VC in pad
amelet monh        (ao y o ns
l-e Pntl E         detsa ra te fmm invosive clvix 3xN0,000 7100,000 Sx100,000   3x100,0
iffvvpof cerdix     cancer
aok fibs         % pap smears  popued          10ation,7%     %mx.  12% max.   10% m.
Deg ko       e caeof                    ___         __quate
4. ADULT AND OLD AGE ]PROGRAM
Diseie 1     % paents discharged from      10% max.   20%           85s.   1S% max.   10% mx.
hospitds, with h_ypa_sio_,
either (a) not nlown  to h1%lt1
Sea"   Evens:      area or fbo   with so medical
cekin last in3 mo___s
mRease s for phaYies 4ot    pro jec
providing pits uner ati-
hyperusnion anld diuretic
mxUcinils to patients
% hypensive populton,           75%        60%         70%        75%
under care,.
% EBAIS with me&dil equip. in   10Q%       70ff        85%        100%
gBood condition.
% patieil > 1S yrs. widih reood    100%    8S%         9S%        100%-
of blood presre mesamument
in Ias consultatian
at Stdd to be achieved by no later ffian Year 4 of the pKu0Ct.
Sld arma are key monitoring indicaton under the project.



'129-
COSTA RICA                                   ANNE 8
HEALTH SECTOR R7FORM PROIECT                             Page 8 of 11
SOCLAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
_ _ _             hd~~~~~~~~~       j Stdad     IYemr i        Yea 3       Tw 
pnswithwond                     100%        80%         90%         100%
diagoss bdo   tatin
% patients wie u   folow-    90%            80%         85%         90%
%patlaitwelllnfonedby           100%        80%         90%         100%
heat saff tegading
hypertensve ondition          _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _
% patents satisfied with car     80%        70%         75%         80%
rcdved for hpertnon 
% hypetnsivepatinslnstable    85%           70%         80%         85%
conditio
Tlhew Dlue 2:    % patiet dischaged from           10% max.  20% umi   15% mx   10%o mx.
iabebs MeSitus    hospitals with DM, either (a)
unkown to heath area or (b)
not m by helth staff i ast 6
% amputations in DM ptients    4x1,000    6x1000    Sxl,000    4x 100
nmx        Tmal.       ma          max
Reasfor pbwmaciesnot              0           0           0           0
providing pcribed medicatio
for dibee (Inslin, othes)     _    _        _ _ _         _
% diabetic padents In area,      75%        60%         70%         75%
under medical control
% dlabi c patisl with well      100%        80%         90%         100%
osablided dposis befor
8-tbemt_
% diabedc pe wih poper           90%        75%         80%         90%
follow-up
%ldiabode pation whh chave      100%        80%         90%         100%
reeived adquate ino ton
about cition fiom health
% diabotes patiens tat record   100%        8S%        95%          100%
fee examinatio in last
.~~osutto                                       __                         _
% pastientisfiedwith thecae    80%          75%         80%         80%
recived v
% pietundesr contr, in           85%        75%         80%         85%
stable condition
Raiio of deompnsated DM          15%         20%         15%         S9%
patients discharged from
hospita, over totld DM
W Sandu 1to beo aeved by no Idar 1 Yea 4 of *a proet.
Shaded ar   m key monitoing indi         under dh pioet.L



- 130-
COSTA RICA                               ANNEX 8
BEAL7II SECTOR REFORM PIROJBCT                      Page 9 of 11
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMONENT
-^I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~Sbdr                 Ye  2      Ye  3 s-0" . 11 a         .I1   Yew 4
TraF DIee 3:  'patn with AG underO .   10% ISX   15% ma    10% max.  15% .,
Mvociid ja«ys of &M nIot une a
% paients wit )A who we    10% mx.  15% mm   10% mm.  10% mo
gm In outpati  services for
mptom and not disposed
correcty at fiut contact
% paleutB WmtML who          100%       90%        95%       10%
revod pre cre in ar
SEAIS physicims dat         80%        70%       7S%        80%
recevoedc       _
(CPR) tsusctto coure in
%BA  with slqWbasi*      loot       80%        900%
equ*ien for pfimmy cme of
_  __   _            5~~. CCSS PAMACYNxC                 
-~~~~am sa11e it  01 7111 75
I SlaMmd to be acieved by no laterha Year 4 of the proceL
Shaded areas  key mouing indicators under the proet.



- 131 -
COSTA RICA                                  ANNEX 8
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                           Page 10 of 11
SOCAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
Table 3. KEY PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
Ativt                      YearO   Yearl i Year 2  Year 3  Year4         s 
ENiGTHENING THE CCSS
1.  Desip etrcture, fimecions, normx and      75%      100%
procedures for the three Complexes
Reveiw action plan and timetable                   100%
Approval by CCSS Board of Directors                100%
Imlement new stmctue and develop                   30%     100%    100%    100%
operational norms (% of annual target)
2.  Maagmeat Infornation System (MIS)
Prare TORs, select consulants for stdy,   30%      70%     100%
prepar procuremen documents
Design the MIS for each module                     50%    100%
Prpare and review action plan                      50%    100%
Implement action plan (% of annual targets)        50%    100%    100%    100%
3.  Develop trining program for managrs,
central and regional staff
No. of Couses                               1       2        3        3       2
No. of Paticipants                         30       60      90       90       60
REDEFINED PRlIARY HEALTH CAlL  MODEL
1.  Desp pilot plan in Huetar Nore            50%      100%
Review pilot plat                                  100%
Implementation (% of annual targets)               100%    100%    100%    100%
Transer of staff (% of anua target)                        100%    100%    100%
2.  Trasfer failies ad personnel from MOH            08/30/94 12/31/95
and implement EBAIS in Cental Norte,               (start)  (end)
Central Sur, nebar Atjanticat
Implementation (% of annual targeb)                        100%    100%    100%
3.  Implement Quality Assurance systam in             10/30/94
Central Note, Contral Sur, Huetar AanticaS_
4.  Transfer facilities and personnel from MOH                08/31/95 12/31/96
and implement EBAIS in Chorotegl, Pacifico                 (start)  (end)
Cetral, Bnulcan
Implementation (% of amnual tagets)                                 100%    100%
S.  Implement Quality Assurance system in                     10/31/95
Chorotega, Pacifico Central, Bnmca/
6.  Prepae annual work plans and budgets for    08/31/93 07/31/94 07/31/95 07/31/96 07/31197 07/31/98
regions
Cany out DS t      of EBAIS and sueso
No. of halth professionals        3,800   5%       15%      45%     75%      95%     100%
No. of auiliary staff 2"          10,400  5Sf      15%      45%     75%      95%    100%
No. of new awdliary staff9          424            10%      40%     92%     100%



- 132 -
COSTA RICA                                   ANNEX 8
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                            Pae 11 of 11
SOCIL SECURT SYSTEM COMPONENT
ALtiI                      Year 0   Year 1   EY   2  Year3 3Year 4  Year S
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
1. Seole of six prAsto staff tb PCU    30%             100%
2.  Dolap Stadad Bidg Doments and              100%
onuracts for civil wors, goods, and
consultants
3.  Pos in project ispleenI          aued               1_      1=%    100%    100%    10%
acorig to appod anina work plan
tgds and budgets (% of anual tagt)
4.  LXA  disted accordig toa  moved wodc               100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
pls nd budgeb (% of annual argab)
S.  Consu   n  contate      ding to scheduled   100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
studieo and tecicall ane (% of annual
i6.  Prcwu  eupmnt                                       30%     60%      90%     100%



- 133 -
COSTA IUCA                                  ANNC 9
EMALTH SECtOR REFORM PRObCr                              Pap 1 of S
SOCIAL SECURIY SYSTI COMPONENT
SELECTED DETAIED !PROJECT COST TABLFS
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
& Mcd. Sup.  1.7     0.6         23~~~ochu            co
A. RedSS asd PU   Dcdop, Qt
1. Sll_CCSd OC. Sd                                0.81.       14 6.7                   45
2. Qulas_Wa. Sy_0 1.1                             2A.          3S         60.         11.7
3. HR Dev.&MSn                        0.9         0.6         0j ..1                   S.l
4. Rsour Mgmd , & e"Sp.               1.7         0.2         0.3         26.9         7.7
_    S_ub-Todl       43           4.4         8.7         Sl.0       29.0
2. Red_        o.      S0d  o0C Mod A                0 
1. Ra    oald P{C iMo c              10.4         4.          14.7        29.7        49
2.  Aso_t                             OSIIgof Al Pn.0.  0.0   0.           4.6         1.7
3. Hoq*il8*d                           0.3         0.3          OS         50.0         1.7
Sub-Toal       11.1          4.          2.8         29.5       72.4
C. Noeous m    not_ Id upue Tong
1. Roeom ii, Alloc, & Bl             0.7          0.2         0.9         263          3.1
2. Rksoum obMl.& Fin. Stb.            0.1         0.1         0.3         S3.9         Os
3. Reve of Allenkivo Mod.             0.2         0.3        0Q6          S9.6         1.9
4. PIe TeAillgof ALV F                OS          0.0         QS           4.6         1.6
Sub-Toli        1.5          0.7         2.2         33i         7.4
D. Ha      veX 8iir_oo Ndondl lAb        0.9         0.2    I      .i    tS.O             3Ai
;B. Phe  dWofm1.9                                     0.3         2.3         14.6        7S5
lTodl BA1N  COMI                        19.7         10.3        30.1        34.3       100.0
Pb*   ashea"                            0OA         0.3         0.6         40.47        2.1
'3W 14ben                               0.9    0    .4    13                34.0    _ 4A
-ToglFlROJB   CamCS1                    2111         11.0        32*0        34A4       IOi
Mmb. Tolis mynot aldd up due to abuafg.



-134-
COSTA RICA                                  ANNEX 9
IMALTE SBCTbR RWONW PROJECT                              Pap 2 of S
SOCIAL SECURITY SYS3 COPOlNRT
SELECTDD DETAILE PROJECT COST TABLS
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
TOTAIS INCLUDING CONTINGENES
(in USS ufion)
Yea I       Yew 2       Ye 3         Yew 4       Tol
A. CC9S bJdtouu RdAfm    D.vdhpmso
1. 5u__,CCwg0.6                                   0.S         0.2          0.1        1.4
2. MaageaeS t1f. Sy_a                 0.8         13          1.1          0.4        3.
3. HR Dev. &   npow  Pa               0.5         04          03           03          1.6
4.           d& MO. sup.              03          1.7         0.4          0.1         2.5
Bob-Told        23           3.9         2.0         0.9         9.1
D. RePod i ld MC Model QA
1. RsddsmdPfC Modul                   12          4.3         43           43         16.0
2.Quly A    uamme                    0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1        0.5
3. HalShx                             0.0         03          03           0.0        0.6
Sub-Tota        13           4.7         4.7         6.4        17.1
C. R-ouu Managasu  HidP Ted -g
1. Roon  Mg*., AU*c,A   Eval.        03           0.3         0.2          0.0        0.9
2. RPoura Mob.&Fia. Stab.            0.2          0.1         0.0          0.0         03
3. Rpviswof AhsmotvsMed              0.4          0.1         0.0          0.0       O0
4. PtlTadaof AIL Fin                  0.1         0.2         0.2          0.0        05
Su-Tald         1.1          0.7         0.4         0.0         23
D. He" SWdlana & Naimau Lab              03          0.3         0.4          0.1         1.2
LB. ftojmt AdWedstrado0.6                            0.6         0.6          0.6         2.4
T.1 PROJC  COSTS                         S.7        10.2         8.1          8.0        32.0
Nowo Tols mqy ot add up du to roueug .



- 135 -
COSTA RICA                              ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                        Page 3 of 5
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
SELECTED DETALE PROJECT COST TAULS
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COSTS SUMMARY
(in USS mi)on)
Palp~~~~~~~
Locl      Foeg         Tota      %  orin     %Tol
L DMENT  COS
A. Civil Work                       1.1        0.3         1.3        20.0        4.5
B. Equpment and FurnitUe
1. Med"l Equipmt                  1.2        3.4         4.5       74.2        15.1
2. Compue Equlpmat                0.1        2.0         2.1        96.3        6.8
Sub-Totb       1.2         53          6.6       81.1        21.9
C. Toeical Assnce
1. Lca                           5.0         0.0         5.0        0.3        16.7
2. Forip                         0.0         2.6         2.6        99.0        8.7
Sub-Tota       5.0         2.6         7.6       34.1        25.4
D. Studies                         0.5         0.3         0.8        41.8       2.6
B. TradnUi
1. Courss ad Wohop               4.7         1.4         6.1       23.3        20.4
2. Scholarips                    0.3         0.0         0.3         6.7        1.1
Sub-Tota       5.0         1.5         6.5       22.5        21.5
F. PublicatdioandMaouals           O.S         0.1         0.6        11.5       2.0
G. Persnelp                        Q0.2        0.0         0.2        0.0        0.6
Total INVESTENT COSI               13.5       10.1        23.6       42.7        78.5
U. RECURRLIT COSIS
A. Incromma lStaff                 3.6         0.0         3.6        0.0        12.1
F. Salary DfferntIa                 1.6        0.0         1.6        0.0        5.2
C  Suppies and Maedals             03          0.1         0.4        17.1       1.2
D. Opeaon & Maiteac
1. Infistructo   O&M             0.0         0.0         0.1        11.9       0.2
2. Equipment O&M                 0.2         0.1         0.3        25.5        0.9
Sub-Total      0.3         0.1         0.3       23.3         1.1
E. Travel Allowanc                 0.4         0.1         0.5        19.3        1.8
F. Oter Opering Cosds              0.0         0.1         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total RBCURRENT COSTS              6.2         0.2         6.5        3.8        21.5
Total BASEUNE  COSIS               19.7       10.3        30.1        0.0       100.0
Phydscal Cntices                0.4         0.3         0.6       40.7        2.1
Pfice Contncies                 0.9         0.4         1.3       34.0        4.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                21.0       11.0        32.0       34.4       106.5
Note Totas may not add up due to boundg.



'SUMMARY ACCONp BYPOIC COMPNN
c*m US$ mmion)
b      --ko      R_dfta                           Ph)
ft_,dk    rw      utLpam            CU      TOW       s   AMW_   I           A | *_
A. Civil Wo                     t.l     0.0      0.0      02      0.0      13      9-9      Ql      24      0.0
D. 99ui_ ad uJbw 
1. U"ws _b                    0.0      42      on0      03      0.0      4S      4.6      02      6.5     03 
2. OooWtVm                    2.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      2.1      OD      on0      4S5    0.1              fA
8b- Tatel    20     42       0.0      03      0.0      6A      3 2      0.2     S9      0.4       
1. loc                        1.6      OA      1 2      0.0     1.7      sn      OA       oA      3.2     07       S      
2. P4ds                       1.6      0.1     0.7      0.0     02       2.6      O.I.    0.0      I9     0.1                  s
Sub-ToI     32      OJ       IR8     OA       1.9      7.6     OA4      0.0     2.      03           
D. I9tdle                       0.0     05       0.0     0.3      0.0     0.3      3.2      0.0     2J8    0.0                  a
1. Com    W e*ww               1       4.3     03       0.0     0.0      6.11    3.5      02      3.      0         S4 
2.  S _bnk                    02       0.1     0.0      0.0     0.0      03       1.7     0.0      3.S    00A
Sub-Tetd    1.7     4.4      0.3     0.0      0.0      6.S     3.4      0.2     3J8    0.2                     Q
p.mad  and _ib                0.3      0.3      OA       .  0.0          0.6      0.0 0.0          4.0    0,0       11    
a.PftdRw _of                  oo       0.2     0.0      0.0      0.0     Oa       0.0     0.0      4.4    0.OVA     
_ PNhwo _. _                   w      =.       22       0.9     2.0    23A       2.6      0.6     J.9     0           
A. -me-8dSkf                    0.0     3.6      0.0     0.0      0.0      3A      0.0      0.0     6.      012                 9  
SBty S^DH _a                  0.0      1.6      0.      0.0      04      l.6      OA      0.0              0.1      W|Q
C. PB _^ d mmb                00       0.0     0.a      0        0.1    0OA       0.0     0.0      4.9    0.Oa^ 
D. Op_4W_@ & bl"K
}. Makomo                     0.0      00      0.0      0.0      00      0.1     0.0      0.0      7.7     o 
2. Bqo%m Gp                   0.1      Oa      0.0      0.0     0.0    3b        0.0      0.0      7       0.Q0    
$6TOWF      0.t     0        OA      0.0      0.0      03       0       OA      7.6    0,0        x    
E& T nnl AQlO                            02 O    0.0     0.0      0.2     0.5      0.0      OD0     3.7    0.        ;l      2  i
P. odketOpumlbg  W              0.0     0.2      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0,0     ODA              M 
|  AdELDM =D                  S.7     IS.      2.2      1.1     2°3  -306        2.0              620  4 
Ph"C _AO                  0.1      Di       .0      0.      0.0      OA                                        i
P"ie Cob_g                   0.3      0.9     0.0      0.0     0.1      13      2.0      0.0A
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                       OA   0 1         0.!  --i-2 _  1- 2.4     0°3
ro=B_ *.e | a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tA wxw 0lS9



4.137 -
COSTA RICA                             ANNC 9
EALTHI SE3CTOR REFORM PROJBCT                     Pagp 5 of S
SOCUL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
9}LECTED DETLED lPROJECT COST TALKES
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
TOTALS INCLUDING CONUNGECES
(i US$ Mio)
Yer I      You 2      Yoar       Yew 4      TOWa
I.  -VES NT COST
A. Civl WoV                        0.0         1.5        0.0        0.0       15
B. Equi9mt and F0ote
1. MedlE 9ulpaut                 0.0         1.2        1.5        2.4       5.0
2. CAmpdterE qulp                0.0         0.9        0.9        0.3       2.1
SUb-TOSt       0.0        2.1        2.4        2.7        7.2
C. Tecn  Alubta
1. Lca                           1.8         1.6        1.2        0.7       5.2
2. Forep                          1.6        0.7        0.3        0.1       2.7
Sub-Tot        3.3        2.3        1.5        0.8        7.9
D. Stad                            0.3        0.3        0.3        0.0        0.8
B. Traing
1. -Courasd Wkop.                1.5        2.6         1.3        1.2       6.6
2. Scablp                        0.1         0.2        0.1        0.0       0.4
Sub-Tol        1.6        2.7        1.4        1.2        6.9
F. PubliionZs ad Mawnul            0.2        0.1         0.2        0.1       0.6
G. Pftwmd RuWwumb                  0.0        0.1         0.1        0.0       0.2
TOt INVESTAGM    COSS              5.4         9.0        5.8        4.9      25.2
1. RECURRETOSS
A. nruental Staff                  0.0        0.5         1.3        2.0       3.9
B. SalaaDiffezal                   0.0        0.3         0.6        0.7       1.7
C. SupliesandMstrus                0.1        0.1         0.1       0.1        0.4
D. Opoalo & Mala
1. TnfrtzuouO&M                  0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.1
2. EquIpmt O&M                   0.0         0.0        0.1        0.2       03
Sub-Totda      0.0        0.0        0.1        0.2        0.4
E. Tramo AUlwncr                   0.2        0.2         0.1        0.1       0.6
F. Otd   C Opti ost                0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Totd RECRRENr COSTS                0.3         1.1        2.3        3.2       6.9
T PROJECT COSTS                    5.7        10.2        8.1        8.0      32.0
Now: Tots may not add up duo to round



-138 -
COSTA RICA                         ANNEX 10
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJBCT                  Page 1 of 2
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONEINT
FSTIZIAM  SEUE OF DISKlRE
(in USS mlon)
.     Qaute D_sbu_md   Cumulative  Dis. as % of Balam  of
ilea        Enit           Duig       Amount         Total       Law
Year                   _ Quart        __
95     SepL 30, 1994      1.0          1.0                      21.0
Dec. 31,1994       0.8          1.8                      20.2
Mach 31, 1995      1.0          2.8                      19.2
June 30, 1995      1.2         4.0           18          18.0
96      Sept 30, 1995     1.2          5.2                      16.8
Dec. 31, 1995      1.4          6.6                      15.4
March 31,,1995     1.6          8.2                      13.8
June 30, 1995      1.8         10.0          46         12.0
97     SepL 20, 1996      1.8          11.8                     10.2
Dec. 31,1996       1.8         13.6                      8.4
Mach 31, 1997      1.8          15.4                      6.6
June 30,1997       1.6         17.0          77          5.0
98      Sept 30, 1997     1.6          18.6                      3.4
Dec. 31, 1997      1.4         20.0                      2.0
March 31,1998     1.2          21.2                      0.8
June 30, 1998     0.8          22.0         100          0.0
a/       In'udes Specia Account depod of US$1.4 milion and a pordion of reitactive
finacing of up to US$1.0 Midllon for eliible expediwu urs ncrred after June 1,
1993.



- 139 -
COSTA RICA                         ANNEX 10
IFEALTH STOR REFORM PROJECT                   Pag 2 of 2
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
WITSDRAWALS OF THE PROCEDS OF TH LOAN
Anount of the
Categou             Lean Afloaed           % Of
(lwai i   In  ~  to be finaneed
US$ equivlen)
1. Civi Walks                       700,000   50%
2. Equpmet and Fmnue              4,500,000   70% of elgible foreig and loca
3. TchaW Assisamc,               8,600,000   100%
Stie & PCU
4. Trining & Felwships            5,300,000   90%
5. Pning of Taining                 500,000   100%
-Matera-s 8t& Mamals
6. Ibwementl 0perads costs          400,000   100% through June 30, 1995;
(inmcluding   m   ,                       75% fmom July 1,1 995 twugh
tmvd allowas & offioe                      June 30, 1996; 50% from July 1,
supplies & materials for                   1996 thrugh June 30, 1997; and
PCEI)                                      25% for the remaining yem
7. Unalocaed                      2,000,000
Total                            22,000,000



-140-
COSTA IUCA                         ANNEX 11
EMALTB SECrOR REFORM PROJECT                   Pae 1 of S
SOCIAL SECURrrY SYSTEM COMPONENT
SPERVISION, ANNUAL AND MIDTERM REVIEWS
1.    Given the proect's innovave and ce  apprach to foms in the CCSS
and           t of efficiency in the provion of het  care and finang n
enive and close upervion would be rquired duing project Implemenaion.  he
proposed pect would requie an avep of about 23 sffwee  of s         per yea.
no spevision team would be carefuy planned, and would be a comba    of Bank staff
and consultn with s    ties in sol securityhealfth administraion, public headdt
specalist, heth finacing ecoWn, pamadceutial and medical spplies and management
InfoIMato systems (see proposed supervision plan beow).
2.    A project luch workshop will be oawnized prior to project effectivenes (third
quarter of FY94) to assist the CCSS senior staff and member of the Central Coordining
Commte and pubc sctr reform authit          es       from Minist  of P     g,
MOH and CCSS) to devlp a com         und ding of the priject's overl deveopment
obecdv, opedonal procedures, coordinato needs and potntal impl ttion
Focus:            Reviewing and adjusting (as neded) implementaton plan; idenfying
and plnning requied coordinion among th PCU, CCSS executing
units, MOR and publc sector reform authoies; rviewing project
manent _rqureme, prouement, disbursemet and auditing
procedures; and reviewing the plan for hiring of onsultants.
Durton:           Four days
Partcpton
of Bank Staff:    - Task Manager
- Social Security/Health Adm. Spec. (consutat)
- Public Health Spec. (consltant)
- Lawyer
- Prcureme  Specilist
- Dislbursementspecialist
3.   The ptrect launch wop will be folowed by addioral speion input to
familiarize seected CCSS staff with the Bank's procurement procedures, disbursemet, and
auding procedurs and guidelins.
4.    Annual m       taon Review Meetings. The annual eview meetngs will be
oganized by the PCU and will take place in eady July of each year, strting in 1995, with
the partcion of the CCSS senior saff, members of the Centrl Coordinadtn Committee,
public sector refom authorities, and Bank staff. The purpose of the annual implon
rview meetings would be to evaluate project performance against implemenaion plus and
agreed tgets; pvide mgement with feeack an pect achi         ts, and issues and
areas needig improvement. Each review would include: (i) implementation of sector
pocies; (H) analysis of the previous yeares performae (i.e., targets, budgetry allocioms,
fncong of Implementatn angemets, main issues, and remedial actons to overoome



141 1-
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 11
HIEALTN SECrOR REFORM PROJECT                   Pap 2 of S
SOCLAL SECURlrY SYSTEM COMPONENT
the onstraint); (1il) review of work plan and budget for the followin year and (Iv)
modflcations in projec desgn, if needed, to adju  to changing sn    Thus the
annual riews and plannin process wi provide a tool for odoing   iements In project
strtegi and plans, consent with the overl object   of te prject
S.    The MIdTem Review to be conducted joilly by the Govmnt and the Bank In
e"rly July. 1996 will addres, in addtio to the issues and tkics to be covered in the eular
atnual reviews, the folowing subjec: (a) progre  In CCSS           nd Its ia
in il g  ning the de     li   process; (b) asessmt and decso  on the desg for
the pilot modes; (c) impact an the redefined model of pimy heat care delivery on
efficiency, quality and equiq; (d) progess i  e i plentat  of the Managment
Infrmabon Systm ant central and regiona levels, on the planning sdecton and
procuement of pha           medical s  es, and on the prgram for imprving
pscrptn and use of medicines; and (e)  _     t of the opeaon of the Human
Rmurces Devopment Fund and of the PCU.
6.    Specificaly, mn are  to be addressed in the annual and nid-tem reviews ar
presented below:
(a) -  &ici: Progres made in the Health Sector Refrm progam in he
MOE and in the CCSS (as per policy let), partcularly the leadership role of the
MOH in seing health sector polces and priorities; progress made In defining
gulatry fuci   and in implementing the Ley Geal de Sat, which I being
rsed under the IDB loan;
(b)   C       R m      undMl;mWgUn               Progress made in the
implemenation of the action plan related to CCSS inotutoal reform and its
ubcomponen; and progress mae  in the decentriaion procs, fis in the plot
regio of Huetar Norte, then to other r g- according to the schedule of
implementation of the redefined primay eath care model; and  olidaton ad
revew of the entire decentalizaton proces in the fourth year;
(c)   Ead Ed=y.H  CM  Mi ade  Prgr   made in tie phased
imlementaion of the model, inuding: transfer of staff from the MOH to the
CCSS, acoring to agreemetable; e ishment of the heath areas and the
EALS; and Implmenti  of the QA system and preiminary results of the
evaluatim system samrting after the second year of project   lem on.   e TORs
for the hosi  study under this component would be appved by D      31,
1994; study ret,  recommendations, and action plan would be mviwed and agred
durig the mid-term rview.
(d)  Ma":Mo  ot  gWLbno DLsions
on the results of the eaiiity study (dming die fis review), progress made in the
implementation of the             in the subsequent yeas.
(e)       (       uem                             
Elaancjng: (i) Pinancial Mnagement -prgess made in impleetto ofan



- 142-
COSTA IUCA                          ANNEX 11
hEALTH SE1CTR REFtORM PROJBCT                   Page 3 of S
SOCIAL SEClUITY SYSTEM COMPONENT
ovauaio4sytemdeig to encouramgecs control, Imrvew efficiency, and incteas
in the use of fncial resoure, and de         of annual prgm_
tand reatd out; () Rourceo              - progress made in
Implemntin the studi o imp   the financing of th CCSS; and (iit) Pilt Tests
- view of te desi  (during the mid-terin evivw), and of pogre  i thir
imp an~d expanson in the tbhid and fourth prwject years. In the annual
reviews, the Government would alsw presen a report on progress made in it s plan for
the gradual reduction, of its dd3t to the CCSS, accoring to the tmetable agred
under the 1DB loan.
(t)   ERwj m m wtandW Cindk u: Tho review wll focus on the PCU's
abwil  to  ordin e project imple   n with the CCSS's excutng units, oter
pwv_ment         , and pivate secor enti  to acheve the prect's objecves.
The compositin of the PCU would be analyzed during the mid-tem review to assess
I i s  proiding adequate technical support to he excutig un. Complian  with
a  guidelines and actua     l 0    11      p     wand   dI_ f wili be
messed during the period under review. This uysis wM indicate ff the  will be a
need to   e     the PCU  in the spcfi are  under review.



- 143-
COSTA RICA                                ANNIX 11
HEALTH SETOR P3FOIM PRORC                               Pagp 4 of 5
SOCIAL SECURItY SYSTEM COiMPONET
SUPVISiON/PRO)EC LAUNCE
ANNUAL RESOURCES
IMING                     SUPERVISON TEIM.                  ST'APMN
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      (n W eeks)
1d Qtr. Task Mage                                           1
FY94   (Aug. 93)
2ad Qtr. TakMak er                                          2
(21 W    (NOV. ") Health  Eooms                                       2
Soia Security/lnst. Dv. Spec. (C)                  2
Primay     h ca  Spe. (C)                          2
Procrme  Spec.                                     2
Sad Qtr. Task Man_e                                         2
(Mar. 94) Socia Sect/Inst. Dcv. Spec. (C)                    2
Pmy He" ca  Spec. (C)                              2
|~~~f1  .mmu  spw.                                                  2
ProcurementSSpec.                                  I
-WAdoLa""er
1st Qtr. Task Mage                                          2
FY9g5   i(ul 94) Pmay Heat Can Spe. (C)                              1
Heath cOnomst                                      2
(17 W              Mas spec.                                          1
Pb ..  & Med. S       sM   Spe. (C)                I
2ndQtr. Task Manage                                         2
(Nov. 94) Social SeuriyInst Dcv. Spc (C)                     2
Heath Surv. & Qlty Ct. Lab. Spec. (C)              2
- Mpe Pan  Spec. (C)                               2
3rd Qtr. Task Mn"ger                                        I
(Ma.9 5  Procuremt                                          1
1st Qtr.  Task Mnagr                                        2
FYN6   (Jul 9) Social Secy/ns Dv. Spec (C)                           2
Eimi   Haddealt  cnomist                                   2
(21 SW)  kAmu   Priy Hlth Cae Spw. (C)                                I
EaOIG   Pham  &  M      l             Spec. (C)             1
2nd Qi. Task MasaW                                          1
(Nov. 95) Heath Economist                                    1
. Socia Seutynst. Dv. Spec (C)                                I
Pham  & Med. Supple Spec./Logistics (C)            2
3rd Qtr. Task M.ae                                          1
( . 96) Health Economist                                     2
Hospitll Am  Spec. (C)                             2
Heath CmeSpoc. (C)                                 1
MIS Spec. (C)                                      2
lst Qtr.  Taok Mran                                         2
pY911  (Jul. 96) Soca Seiyst. Dcv. Spc. (C)                          2
eno4  Heath Economist                                       2
(25 SW)  An"    Pimly Healt Cma Spec. (QA & Impact EvaL) (C)          2
Ra/in &  Pharm. & Med.  plieLSpec. (C)                       2
Countty Iconomist
Red=   PIrocu_m     S                                       1



-144-
COSTA RICA                                ANNEX 11
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                            Par 5 of 5
SOCLAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMONENT
T1 NOG                    SUPERVISION TEA                   STAPFING
(Fs Weeks)
Tak Mnar                                           3
Soci Sectllat. Dev. Spec. (C)                      3
Nelth Economis                                     3
PrmaRy Health Caue Spec. (C)                       1
-Hosital Adma. Spec. (C)                           3
FY9sI'      Task Mar                                            6
Headth Bconomist                                   6
30)       WSoci SecuotynsL Dov. Spec. (C)                      6
Priay Healtb Cane Spoc. (C)                        6
Notl  I' Tbocuo and intt of toe speevon woak and the conposten of t  team for PYs 97198
woud  be mviewed afte di mid-tarm eview to ad"just to pnject ip    requrmts.
0tm - to be idfied aording to prejdt implenntatio- rqirmen



. 145 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 8
L H _  *|Ill IH  Ti _I
| il H   11711            1  11 
ilE Sml. *flff flr
0||El 1111111| 
igI  -lI.lls  Ill 
j     ]         I          I
1.   1.1:. I }    __   . ]1  _ ll~~~~~~



-146-
ANNE( 12
Page 2 of 8
Ji  ijjI     1   tf
21I 0i  'tl    If.111
ii                 ii I...~'



*147 -
ANNE( 12
-PAP 3 f8
I                       Ii _ii
I  leil't ii; ',ii
ll                       III  ii



PROIBCT           POUCY OICIW                              COMeONBNTIACTKONS                                 tXlY1N 01bA
COMPONM?
-3     ~_ __ _                _        _       _        _        _        ____C-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __!l
Develpnwma of lumm  rewm Tban  o senio and mldi leve =Mnag  for                  Humz.R souroes Developmen Pond preposl we
nedd  _ Sd ad inglemeat                                                          reviewmed b fonde Bak a qail ad fnd sadwtuy.
CCSS  Iwa0s ad delv  qpali1y              of Rnma R_our  Deveb mta Pond  ftr ipc tasing progra  wug be oeed sonn to
beall cam                     do4e dropmeaot o mun espira nedd to Ialmeu,1 oe wlrame- of Iniratic6el feebustoefag of 6e CCU.
b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~omo  mm of _ f Ddt VAmm  Resom                                               t      _  d _i l
heaNa sector tuie In oe diceS and_med ta CC  would or dad                qiu  f  Pds  aordn 
________________________________ (pare. 4.10 A 6.*)).
Matywer Manning shady so meview exisllg PolCs" and  sudy Oa MaiOworW ManIng at cote  nd=roknsd evels
dad.p an  n ed q_. Of ma_pmr poldis                wud  be ony_ktd by Sep8tsnw    30, 1994. An andb
admlinradou   omlins nd i        a acornig  die pf   a wold be agme on no ltr _a Noviaer 30, 1994;
CCSS' itua* '                                                           itt a *   sdbwq fete
_~~~~~~~~~Makta 44gZb) 8.1(b). 
. D. Pba u,etldub nal Media sal, Sysem and tadui Use od Medcines
Back     ~~as n die syWee=   Inyovemoat and raWliabliln of faclbes desig of  Repot finding,                lmplwI"O
of oppia of          _-barnmendemb aed stwk oontrd amehomisms, g pi pu,aaim of nw procedus  and iuebe for    by Jm 30, t195 lobe
medica mypli  and promote a   and nomfor gma*l coirud, develuymea of             discussd and agreed Wmith e Bak aurin foe so =ani
ratonan of moedicn  by                    and seleodon crideria, relnema of tho   eview; subed *am  -  by Otober 1, 199S; and
_mroig pmoripdon and cost o_ pmureprocess review of                 legal        I,lenmat b fe do ads. planrs. 4.12(a)& LI(dA
pratieso anmng doctor and     proceure (nepsoisy for prMorment), md anayds of
plaamadlaid   edaing uen.  oos bffctie logisc  a ,i              dinoe
vnvo        of do privat nsecto.
Desig eeatlaonal material operaina research and staff Pzyosd (oa- ratkona use of =&aeu  wan dwevalea
Winin_for  awlanel of o  payceL   duin psec peqam&, vd  at apraisa ad .oun
. kW__m
swae "m4.12()).
Goo



PuO1cTr            POLICY O0EC8IW                           COMI`OWf8CTIcfnON8C
______________                                   A. Redefined                      o _  _eM
Reillnda Prmy Applic  of nddld PHC               Detailed redebed PHC Model wa pr_       by a woating IU mod      s viewed by t auk a appraisad
Hah              model bausd an pinciple. of     geP eiadg of staff fim MOH and CCSS, PAHO    fond blaovive andt ai_             y. Rldefaed PMC Mod
M el fty    univ    coval     ods,it    *  ad Cinu. Cni potol,                  and prioi       frally appred by doe kwerntm* in Mas, 1993.
AUUWCSa an         equity,efficiency, and oe ocecep progra  msav been deioped by a ru of expetL.       ______________________
HopialStdy ab bet k               be            d          o                          of    E      m        in dke pbt aeg-si of Ita Node tat
reqmw_eoo Go b114. linligi, .1  baic beaN  _te   (BASS) for dke  cpbs o             n Ao gst, 1993. lbo .kf rad
nd so£d coI     _ d_ dk        mod  Io all regios Thansker of doe 1,700 saff fiom   PHC model wsd be Oied dring do Am 6o ya -s of
is 06* 10*4 -q&      MOH to do CCSS fdo lbo               of to redefined die pr*cL Comldi  w    owad      r dring fe  uh
MC model                                            yewr (pn 4.15).
ftviovlk  of a Ilm&bowasI prgr   mtiak*u  ta o foe ak
for doe eatldinmsat of beaNs angle. area, and ZDASS,
fo 60oe tea I arfofbe         be" pcIN, Sad doff
fom Io MOM to do CSS i a oamn doi..n
ucdivum    me. 4.15£  8.4(b)).                                    i-
As a c    on  ofreI                     U do
reddeined primar bhaft mae nmda and qmity mmc
oobem sigk ends beoM  os, do -  1e uul_d hae
beau conpdyeed (pua. 4.16£& 83(o)).
Asansv- ofdefault, oe,Uoundpris   would s
bav been car  Ie out in acoorimacewfo its kmrn snd
cooe ( pum.   4.1 S  AC(p)).
DB. Quat  Asnoc
Developne    system of Quaiy I               of a QA Sysm  o ealuate IMC.           QA Sysem was desine by ovkw    soa
Asuane for evaao of PHC   bWn               hae beem scedo m         capacty of eaf  apr vedby fo MOH, CCSS, and Univ y, soa
sad as a first step to eddbs on-   mowz to poie ses, qu_t of services ad            apoved by to Gvrmsmat in bMr 1993M. Riwed by
going QA for all keve  of sevie  proees  nd _me e ucomes, ad its inpt              fo       duok eg A  isa in May 1993 and imud
under varus    -     moda s    _       _     __                                               p         4.16
QA wd be epAod to _ondrq and ecay am l s. To be riewe afe fo meond ye   f 1pret
Selctd bicme wi be defind for both fo CCSS anla(Annex 11).
p--pid



PROJECT           POLICY OBJECTIVES                       COMPONENTIACTIONS                                  COMMENTSrIMETABLE
COMPONENT   I___  _                                                                              __      .     _ ,      _ .      _ .       _.
C. Hospital Study - Seeondauy and Teriay Health Care Lwels
Study and reform of secondary    Conduct of Study on secondary and terty  hel care    CCSS to uish to the Bank by December31, 1994 the
and ttiay levels of helt care   lves hospital, network, high complexity and outatient  TORs, draft contract, and hort list of firms to conduct the
clinics), including analysis of ftnctions, tafing  study (Annex 11).
procedures, control mechanisms, finaning and costs of
services, inastruture and equipment of selected exwstng
network.
Based on tke findings of the study, design of proposl for Reults of the study and proposas for refoms would be
rforms of dte hospitl network and clinics, including  discussed by December 31, 1996 an an actin plan and
identfication of services, hospials or clinics that would be imetabk for impkamioto agreed with the Banl by
managed and operated by dth private sector.        March 30, 1997 (pas. 4.17 & 8.1(e)).
A. Resource Management, Alloation and Evaluation
Resource          Improve incentives for health  Development of progamm budget system that is output-    Changes w. tla h.dgeting sysem are being implemngted for
Mbanagement and   service managers to encourage    relatd and design of a complementary mnwitoring and    the 1994 budget as part of the Public Sector Refoinr
Pilot Testing of    cost control and efficiency and    evaluation system to allow managers of the three  Program under SAL m (pam  2.20).
Al   stive Models increa  trAsparency at aU levels. Complexes to match expenditures against defined program                                            I'
oft.  'h Care                                    outcomes and institLtional objectives.                                                                              O
Fin,ash Ig   .         .-.-.....±
B. Resource Mobilizadion and Inprovement in the Pinancal Stability of the CCSS
Design and implement new      Studies to design mechanism. to improve economic   To be carried out during the first year of project
procedures and norns to reduce  incentives for affiliation to the CCSS, particularly for  implementation; results and recommendation to be
evasion and increase contributory  independent workers, and discourage under-reporting of   discussed with the Bank during the first annual review;
control through improvements in  tncomes.                                        action pln and timetable for implemenaion submitted to
the CCSS collection and auditing  Studies to reviw the curnt process of reportLng earnigs Bank by October 1, 1995 (paras. 4.21 & 8.I(f)).
functions.                    and of colection of social security contnbutionrs frona
employers, employees, and independent orks.        A conveo betwon le CCSS and the Ministry of
Redesign current coUection process and nrea        Finance is a condto of loan effectivenes (a. 4.20(b)
contributory contracts.                           & S.4(c)).
Studies to analyze te feasibility of utilizing alternaive
revenue sources (e.g., co-payrment and deductibles) and
improve cost-recovety in the sale of services to uninsured
groups and private patients.
Collection of Government past debt and formulatiou of a   As a condition of loan effectvens, a Subsidiay
Govenment strategy to avoid future debts.          Agreement botween the Minstry of Finance and CCSS
would have been eatered to canel the Government debt
and transfer (overnemnt funds to cover the ful cost of  ;r
health cae preniums for indigents (paras. 4.22 & 8,4(d)).
C. Review of Existing Altemative Resource Alocation Models and Alternative Delivery and Financing Model             oo r



- 151 -
ANNEX 12
- -_________________  - __________________Pago 7 of 8
*.~  ..          .             dl
li idl iitS
klu*lIi i                    M 1itiJ'sxJ8
_      .W    -,       j.  tih  ,8 f j .11141_



- 1S2 -
ANNEK 12
Page 8 of 8
X =}
f4m JR iJXj a
_ l2ii
id  t i I



- 153 -
COSTA RICA                                                    ANNEX 13
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                                                       Page 1 of 1
SOCIAL SECURI'Y SYSTEM COMPONENT
PROJECT MPLENWANTATION SCHEDULE
Tak Names                                         193         1994         l9oS        199         Isi          19se8
INTTUTIDONA  STRENTHEMNI
stfinaC mOnagsmar a    lou.stucturo Ha4e
Dafiins role & func00ons of seior nmaaement levels
Define missin, obyeive.m and functions tor each Compbx                               =
Desig of supponrt ytenm  tor each Conmlex
Df"lr o nstitutional devolopmont plan                                    _                                         __-   .
ImplerMt iawttutisnal pe __ .
Prpastion of stalf to Implent changes
Development of MIS
Develop consultant short st & TORs for study
Conduct .udr of MIS development & devalep action plan
Implemt MIS action plan
Human Resources Development & Planning
Peprpation of mano wer Planning & action plan
jnment action planI
Pharmacewicalo & Muidcal Suppies System
Roview sub-secr isus & develop setion plan
Imnplmeft action plan
Inmdlement rational usa of metdiine action elsn 
REDEFINED PHC MODEL, IUAUTY ASSURANCE & HOSPlTAL STUDY
Redefined Primr Hlth Cate Moadl & CA
Preparation at Decree for crastion of EBAIS
Passage of Dae   astaebshing EBAIS (estimated)                                         |
Conduct pilot plan ftr Huetar Norte
Transfer faciliths & personnel from MOH & imopement EBAIS: CN. CS, HA
Qiualty Assuranoe CNL CS. HA
Prepara annual health pan. CM, CS, HA
Transfer facilitis & pertonnel from MOH & implement EBAIS: Ch, PC, Or
Qualitv Assurancu  Ch, PC,, r
Prepare annual health plan Ch, PC, Or
Training of health staff
Hirina & training incremental health staff (TAP oniv)
Hospital Study
Develop consultant list & TORs for study
Conduct study & develop action plan
Implement action plan
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, REVIEW & PILOT TESTING OF ALTERNATIVE MODES
Resource Mane ament, Allocation & Evaluation
Develop budaet orocess & monitoringevslution svtm
Resource Mobilization & Imrovemsnt of Financial StabbDity
Dasign, conduct studies & dwelop actien plans
Implement action plan
Ruview of Existing Alternative Models
Conduct review of existing lternative models & develop recommendatieon for plotsi
Pilot Testing of Alternative MchanismsI
"esian pilot testa using recommendatios of review of existina alternetbes|
Imienment andlor oepansion of pilot tests
NATIONAL HEALTH SURVEILLANCE & QUALITY CONTROL LAB
Conduct study on development of NHS&QC Laboratory
Ciil worka
REVIEWS
Frst Annual Review
Mid-Term Review
Third Annual Review
Fourth Annul Revievw
PROJECT POST-EVALUAlTON
HN  Huetar Norts   CM  CentraliNon    CS: Centrl Sur                                                                          Milestone   A        8un e
Ch: Chotega   PC: PacificoCentral   Br. Brunca
HA: HuearAtlantica    TAP: Twenico en Atencion Prmeria



- 154 -
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 14
HEATH SECTOR REPORM PROJECT                    Page 1 of 3
SOCIAL SECUPITY SYSTIEM COMNENT
SELECTED DOCU CENT  IN PROJECT FLE
A. INSTlTUTIONAL REFORM COMPONENT
1.    CCSS. Peifil Fwzcional y Esnwral de 1a CCSS, April 1993.
Perfil FPclonal y Es lucwa de 1a CCSS, April 1993.
Componente Fortakcdmento Inswsional de la CCSS, January 1993.
Componeme Sistema de Snistros, May 1993.
Sistema de Sinstros Para a Atend6n Integral de las Personw. Februay 1993
2.    CCSS. Proyecto Rectorta y Fortadmiento del M io de SaLud (Programa de
Meoramieno de Servios de Salad CR-120IBID), August 1992.
3.    CCSS. Perfil Fucional y Progmua de Senslbillzacdn (Fomacl6n), September
1992.
4.    CCSS. Fondo Naconal de Fomciddn y Capacitadcn en Salud, May 1993.
5.   CCSS. Es7ucta Organizadva del Cenro de Desanolo FEstrategico e Inforuadon
en Saludy Seguldad Social, April 1993.
6.    Carvajal Tones, Luis M. EiAsdo de Factibilidad Para Pvawzar los Servicos de
Distribucldn de Mercaderas en el Depanamewo Almacenanmieo y Dimwbud6n CCSS, May
1993.
7.    Government of Costa Rica, Ministy of Plnning and Economic Policy. PWgram  de
Aeforna del Estado, Programa Naclonal de Refonna del Sector Salud, March 1992.
8.   InterAmerican Deveopment Bank  Prograna de Mejoramiemo de Servidos de Salad
CR-0120/BID, project and loan documens, 1992.
9.    Management Sciences for Health. Estudio de Fadamteno, Adqutsid6n y
Distribuci6n de Fanracucos y Materes Medcos, October 1992.
10.  Muller, Kathern and L. B. Villalobos. Consultorfa en el Area de Recuos
Hmnos, December 1992.
B. REDEFINED PRIMARY HEALTH CARE MODEL
11.   CCSS. Propuesta de Readecuadcn del Modelo de Atend6n, plus annexes, Febrary
1993.
Sftuadcn Actual del Modelo de Atend6n, October 1992.
Iraesncura de Servicos de Salhd por Canton y Region Programadca CCSSMS,
June 1992.
12.   CCSS. Costa Rica: Perfil de Morbl-Mortaldad, 1992.



- 155 -
COSTA RICA                          ANNEX 14
HFALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJEC                     Page 2 of 3
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COM NENT
13.   Garila, Ronny. Informe de Consulrfa Sobre Gautos por Programa del Ministerio de
Salud, October 1992.
14.   Grunberg, Marcelo. Informe de Consukorfa Sobre Recursos Hwnawv y Fiscos de la
CCSS y el Ministerlo de Salud, Janumy 1993.
15.  Marin, Fernando. nfowme de Consultorfa Sobre Readead6n del Modelo de
Aiencd6n, November 1992.
C. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PILOT TESTING OF ALTERNATIVE
FINANCING
16.  CCSS. Proyecto de Reforma al Sector Salud: Componente Sobre el Financiadento,
April 1993.
Analis  del Modelo de Fnanciauenwo Actual y Estrategia Para su Rediseflo, April
1993.
Rediseno del Modelo de Financdiento del Sector Salud, April 1993.
Propuesta Para un Modelo de FYnanciamiento, September 1992.
17.  CCSS. Modelo General de Compra y Evaluac6n de Alernativas d.> GesWIn y
Atencidn a la Salud. Termino de Referenda, December 1992.
18.   Fiedler, John L. and F. Rigoli. The Costa Rican Social Secriy Fund's Akematve
Modelk: A Case Study of the Cooperadve-Based, COOPESALUD Pavas Clnic, September
1991.
19. The Wyatt Company. Costa Rica Health Care Reform: FYnmcial Component Report,
Febnuary 1993.
D. STUDY ON DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL QUALITY CONTROL
LABORATORY
20.   CCSS. Fortalecimento Institudonal del Instiuo Costamcense de Invesadgacdn y
Enseflanza en Nwrci6n y Salud 'Dr. Uriel Badilla Ferandez", Aprl 1993.
E. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIr
21.   CCSS. Conceptualacion y Estrucuraci6n de la Unidad Coordinatora del Proyecto,
April 1993.
Perfil y Tenrmnos de Referenda de los Puestos de la UCP, April 1993.
Esquema Basico Para la Adwnsravn Financera, April 1993.
Foralecimlento Instinduonal de Ia Fwdacidn FUCODOCSA, April 1993.
F. BACKGROUND REPORTS
22.   CCSS Unidad Preparatoria. Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud, May 1993.



* - 156-
COSTA RICA                         ANNEX 14
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                   Page 3 of 3
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMONENT
23.   CCSS. Informe Eaiuativo de la Gesd4n Admstrativa y Programatica de la Caja
Costarricense de Seguro Sodal, plus annexes, April 1991.
24. CCSS Presidencia Ejecutiva. La Caja Costanicense de Seguro Social en la
Coywnura de Crisis, March 1991.
25.   Presidencia de la Rep6blica de Costa Rica, Programa Reforma del Estado, Plan
Nacional de Reforma del Sector Salud, March 1993.
26.  Homedes, Nuria. La Prevencidn y Pronocidn de la Sald en Costa Rica, June 1988.
27.  Homedes, Nuria et al. Los Recuros Huanos del Sector Salud en Costa Rica, April
1988.
28.   Saenz, Luis B. and M. Leon. Gastos de los Hogares en Servicos de Salud Privados
en Costa Rica Durwe 1987-1988, 1992.
29.   Sanginetty, Jorge A. Infonme de Consultor(a Sobre La Salud y el Seguro Social en
Cost Rica, August 1988.
30.   Valiejo, Cesar and R. lunes. The Health Sector in Costa Rca: FYnancing and
Efficeny, November 1991.
31. Quir6s, Roberto C. La Atencion Medica en la Seguidad Social: Metodos Para
Mejorar la Relad6n Costo/Eficdenda de los Programas, October 1991.
32.   Vargas, Thelmo. Eficiencia del Sector Pblico y Pivatizacidn en Costa Rica, March
1990.



if                          \                                    x                                        I      |       U       .E's    E   l      *                  I I 
.;  .   . ~~~~~~~~~~~ \ \  -. ~~~~~~~~~~~ >  -5       fie  T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 28 
. (   .  X   ¢ Dtp n   CN I C ARAGUA    \   - .        '>1HONDURAS
p    MOAEs  tHUAR  RE    -                                                                                                                   I"
p             I c                                              s C  m
COSTA~    ~~~ RIA -                                                                                                                         2bd  >< <
RNERS A N m;-
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECTr
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENTPU
o j  c) \  R    PA NAA M 
*   tATIOALCO                                                                                                                   PANAMA
*    PROViNCE CAPffAli
o    aTES AND OWNS
- PmVINCE BOUNDRIES                                                                                                           C   
IEG ION BOUNDARIES                                                                      4'MI _  h                            C,,,
RITEINA   BOUNDAR ES '
tsb wb .. _witfo_S ..................... ° fD ~~~~~~~~~~~100 Kilomfeit*, r  
; 4'-z                      tt                                                                                                       ;1d>j y,i . !!p
,~ ~ ~~~~6 6'  ,5                                                                                                                                             62' l4
I  '   -            '\  -    -          '               b  -        -                                         '       ''   JUNE  lwa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN    1O



IBRD 2487
.Slik     A.  .'* A-,p.
.CO:STA RICA-               -0w-       78 \4
HEALTHSECTOR REFR  POJE                                cosT Cos
SOCIAL SECRITY SYSTEM COMPONENT                                R I A  *A
REDEFINED PRIMARY HEALT  CARE MODEL
HUETARl AINIARGN
NICARAGUA  \   -.                       .                           04e
Cv ribboon 
Sea                  A , H  - p
IU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H!ALItIST
\\  - s    OF cm WANiOM wp '
2~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~     N I(IM~ I  \x'NWfWHEALTHSEtEK'' 
Wi  0\6 I l/OUte9 oK\N'-A_-- REWQND0.                                           '
0
2    i\\ /@    @    HUETAR
/~~~~
0- I~Q ATlLANTICA
*          ..-  _  Siqui b .._ .  \3 
0~~~~~~~~~~~
CENTRAL                 /
.                             .        *#
,,.     .                                     . s .\  \   PANAMA
BRUNCA          .%. '        * _           *          ie
by dheWaWsils 
X w._e \ O ~~10           20 mom               ;wd    ff
PACIFIC    N        I_____-___'___
OCEAN               0        20        40 KILOMEM         83T-  *
JULY 1993



