Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3654 CR
Project Agreement
(Health Sector Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CAJA COSTARRICENSE DE SEGURO SOCIAL
Dated December 6, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3654 CR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CAJA COSTARRICENSE DE SEGURO SOCIAL (CCSS).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of Costa 
Rica (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty two million dollars ($22,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that CCSS agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS CCSS, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
Page  2
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CCSS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, engineering and health 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A, B, C and E of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and CCSS shall otherwise agree, CCSS shall carry out Parts A, 
B, C and E of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project 
and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. CCSS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A, B, C and E 
of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) CCSS shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CCSS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the
purposes of Loan, or the performance by CCSS of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, CCSS shall:
(a)
not later than August 31 of each year, during the execution of the 
Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval, a proposed 
annual implementation plan for the
then upcoming year covering in detail the implementation and cost schedule in respect 
of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project; and
(b)
not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year of Project execution, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a progress report, of such scope and detail as the 
Bank may reasonably request,
on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project.
Section 2.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, CCSS shall:
(a)
not later than July 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
starting in 1995, hold annual reviews with the Bank, such reviews to be based on the 
reports referred to in Section 2.05 (b) of this Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on 
the following: (i) evaluation of the progress in the execution, and in the achievement 
of the objectives, of the Project measured against monitoring indicators satisfactory 
to the Bank; (ii) discussion of the proposed annual implementation plan for the 
upcoming year; (iii) progress in the achievement of the objectives, and the 
implementation of the policies, of the Policy Statement; (iv) performance with the 
Page  3
provisions of the Convenio and the Subsidiary Agreement; and (v) any changes in 
Project implementation that may be necessary;
(b)
in respect of the annual review to be held in 1995, CCSS shall review 
with the Bank, in addition to the matters referred to in paragraph (a) above: (i) the 
results and recommendations of the studies under Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the 
Project; (ii) the report referred to in paragraph 4 of the Schedule to this Agreement; 
and (iii) the results and recommendations of the study under Part D.1 of the Project;
(c)
in respect of the annual review to be held in 1996 (midterm review), CCSS 
shall review with the Bank, in addition to the matters referred to in paragraph (a) 
above: (i) progress in the implementation of CCSS' reorganization and its impact on 
strengthening the decentralization process; (ii) the design of the pilot models under 
Part C.6 of the Project; (iii) impact of the Redefined Primary Health Care Model on 
the efficiency, quality and equity in the delivery of health care services; (iv) 
progress in the implementation of the management information system at the central and 
regional levels and the planning, selection and procurement of pharmaceutical and 
medical supplies system and the prescription and use of drugs; and (v) operation of 
the Human Resources Development Fund and performance of the PCU; and
(d)
without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under the 
Loan Agreement, if as a result of any of the above annual reviews, progress in the 
execution, or in the achievement of the objectives, of the Project or progress in the 
achievement of the objectives of the Policy Statement, is not satisfactory to the 
Bank, CCSS shall promptly take all such remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as 
shall be required to achieve such objectives or to efficiently implement the Project.
Section 2.07. CCSS shall duly perform all its obligations, and exercise all its 
rights, under the Subsidiary Agreement and the Convenio in such manner as to protect 
the interests of CCSS, and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CCSS shall not take or concur in any action which 
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary 
Agreement, the Convenio or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CCSS
Section 3.01. CCSS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, environmental, financial and health care 
practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CCSS shall at all times operate and maintain its facilities, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
environmental, financial and health care practices.
Section 3.03. CCSS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CCSS shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including records and
separate accounts for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project. 
(b)
CCSS shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above 
and its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year 
Page  4
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CCSS 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CCSS thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For CCSS:
Caja Costarricense de
   Seguro Social
Avenida Segunda
Centre Calles Tres y Cinco)
Apartado 10.105-1000
San Jose, Costa Rica
Telex:
Page  5
Sesoco 2688
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CCSS may be 
taken or executed by Executive President or such other person or persons as Executive 
President shall designate in writing, and CCSS shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CAJA COSTARRICENSE DE SEGURO SOCIAL
By /s/ Elòas Jimenez Fonseca
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, CCSS shall:
1.
Operate and maintain the PCU with an organizational structure, functions and 
staffing satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
(a)
Carry out, not later than June 30, 1995, the studies under Part C.2, C.3 
and C.4 of the Project; (b) promptly after their completion, furnish to the Bank a 
copy of the above studies; (c) not later than October 1, 1995, submit to the Bank 
action plans, satisfactory to the Bank, based on the results and recommendations of 
the above studies and the Bank's comments thereon; and (d) implement such action plans 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
(a)
Carry out, not later than September 30, 1994, the study under Part A.3 
(b) of the Project; (b) promptly after its completion, furnish to the Bank a copy of 
such study; (c) not later
than November 30, 1994, submit to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
based on the results and recommendations of such study and the Bank's comments 
thereon; and (d) implement such action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
(a)
Prepare and submit to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1995, a final 
report, of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, on the activities 
regarding the pharmaceutical and medical supplies system under Part A.4 (a) of the 
Page  6
Project; (b) promptly after its completion, furnish to the Bank a copy of the above 
report; (c) not later than October 1, 1995, submit to the Bank an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, based on the recommendations of the above report and the 
Bank's comments thereon; and (d) implement such action plan in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank.
5.
(a)
Carry out, not later than December 31, 1996, the study under Part B.2 of 
the Project; (b) promptly after its completion, submit to the Bank a copy of the above 
study; (c) not later than
March 30, 1997, submit to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, based on 
the results and recommendations of the study and the Bank's comments thereon; and (d) 
implement such action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
6.
(a)
Carry out, not later than December 31, 1995, the study under Part C.5 (a) 
of the Project; (b) promptly after its completion, submit to the Bank a copy of the 
above study for its
review; (c) not later than July 31, 1996, submit to the Bank the design of the pilot 
models, satisfactory to the Bank, under Part C.6 of the Project and an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of such pilot models; and (d) 
implement such action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
7.
Employ or assign, not later than June 30, 1994: (a) a coordinator for the 
institutional development unit of the PCU; (b) a coordinator for the administration 
and finance unit of the PCU;
and (c) an institutional development specialist, an economist, a public health 
specialist, a procurement specialist and an officer with supervision responsibilities, 
all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
8.
Operate and maintain the Human Resources Development Fund in accordance with 
rules and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
9.
(a)
Carry out, not later than September 30, 1994, the study under Part A.2 
(a) of the Project; (b) promptly after its completion, submit to the Bank a copy of 
the above study for its
review; (c) submit to the Bank, not later than November 30, 1994, an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of Part A.2 (b) of the Project; and 
(d) implement such action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
10.
Carry out the Institutional Development Plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
