                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 25713

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (CPL-36540; SCPD-3654S)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$22 MILLION

                                  TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                      COSTA RICA

                                         FOR A

                           HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT




                                      May 14, 2003




Central America Department
Country Management Unit
Latin America and The Caribbean Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective May 2003)

                        Currency Unit = Colones
                      392.91 Colones = US$ 1
                           US$ .0025 = Colones 1

                             FISCAL YEAR
                             July 1    June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CCSS      Costa Rica Social Security Agency
DRG       Diagnostic Related Group
EBAIS     Basic Team for Comprehensive Health Services
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
INCIENSA  Costa Rican Institute of Research and Teaching
INEC      National Institute of Statistics and Census
IPC       Index of Consumer Prices
IVM       Insurance for Disability, Old Age and Death
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOH       Costa Rica Ministry of Health
OPC       Agency for Complementary Pensions
PEA       Active Economic Population
PHC       Primary Health Care
SS        Social Security
UCR       University of Costa Rica
UPH       Unit for Hospital Facilities Production



                      Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                    Country Director:      Jane Armitage
                     Sector Director:      Ana Maria Arriagada
                  Task Team Leader:        Maria Luisa Escobar

                                        COSTA RICA
                             CR HEALTH SECTOR REFORM


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             40
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             55
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             57
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                58
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            59
Annex 8. Supporting Data and tables                                              61

Project ID: P006954                                                      Project Name: CR HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Team Leader: Maria-Luisa Escobar                                         TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: May 16, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: CR HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-36540; SCPD-3654S
   Country/Department: COSTA RICA                                                         Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (90%); Health insurance (5%); Central government
                            administration (5%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Administrative and civil service
                            reform (S); Decentralization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    02/10/1993                                        Effective: 02/10/1995              04/18/1995
   Appraisal:    02/24/1993                                            MTR: 06/15/1996                07/07/1997
    Approval:    10/21/1993                                         Closing: 01/31/1999               09/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF COSTA RICA/CAJA SEGURO SOCIAL
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            David de Ferranti                                   Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:           Jane Armitage                                       Donna Dowsett Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Evangeline Javier                                   Kye Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:        Maria Luisa Escobar                                 Carmen Hamann
ICR Primary Author:        Maria Luisa Escobar; James
                           Cercone


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:HS

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:HS

           Borrower Performance:HS


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

                                   A New Approach to the ICR




                             Health Reform in Costa Rica and Bank Support
                                        A new Approach to the ICR
In principle, identification of the optimal combination of efforts that generate a desired outcome from the
implementation of health reforms should result from lessons learned from Bank support of reform
processes in several countries. While this ICR is not an intensive learning ICR, this ICR is designed as a
contribution to that exercise. A reform process is a combination of efforts over a period of time including
those supported by Bank operations. Project financed activities evolve in an environment determined by
factors such as the economic and fiscal situation of the country in question, the political leadership as well
as the degree of community participation, the particular characteristics of the health sector, etc. This ICR
has been designed with this holistic approach in mind, including stakeholder analysis and follow-up
workshops, in order to analyze Bank support to the reform process within the particular characteristics of
the sector at the time of project design and during its implementation.

This analysis identifies the combination of efforts that produced the observed results in the health reform
process in Costa Rica while trying to establish a relationship between the successes and failures of reform
processes with the combination of activities and events that interacted with project design and
implementation. The ICR preparation process involved the analysis of issues of diverse nature: from the
timeliness of political decisions, to economic situations that enable or disable the implementation of
strategies designed to be supported by technical assistance, to the overall political and social climate of
the country and its institution(s). A detailed analysis of results obtained during the project's life,
compared to initial objectives and to project activities has been done, and then those are analyzed within
the political and socio-economic context present during the whole project cycle. Structured interviews
were done with about 30 people who have been involved in the health reform process in Costa Rica in
different capacities. The interview results were compiled and analyzed for the ICR analysis.




                                                         - 2 -

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's stated objective was to support the Government's effort to implement critical
policy, institutional and operational reforms which aimed at improving efficiency, effectiveness
and quality of the delivery of health services by the Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social (CCSS).
The project proposed five main strategies to achieve these objectives: (i) assisting the CCSS in the
implementation of institutional reforms at the central level and supporting the decentralization
process; (ii) supporting the implementation of a redesigned primary health care model; (iii)
strengthening the CCSS financial resource management, resource allocation and pilot testing of
alternative models of health care financing; and (iv) supporting the national surveillance and
quality control laboratories under the Instituto Nacional de Ciencias en Salud (INCIENSA). The
project was expected to contribute to poverty alleviation by improving the access of the poor to
good quality health care services.

The project's objectives were consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Costa Rica,
discussed at the Board on March 10, 1993, which was to ensure macroeconomic stability, reform
the public sector, integrate the economy with world markets, strengthen infrastructure, enhance
competitiveness and efficiency of the financial system, improve coverage and efficiency of social
programs to further reduce poverty and improve environmental management. The loan was the
first Bank operation to Costa Rica in the health sector and was seen as an important vehicle to
strengthen the social sector policy dialogue with the Government. The loan was complementary
to a parallel operation by the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) that focused on
strengthening the Ministry of Health, building a regional hospital and providing infrastructure for
the integrated primary care model of the CCSS.

The project objectives and the proposed investment program were developed as part of a long
running dialogue between the Bank and the CCSS. In the early 1990s a number of national
committees developed clear objectives to improve primary care and strengthen the MOH and
INCIENSA. The project was designed to support the actions that were developed as a part of a
national consensus building exercise. Concern about the increasing expenditures in the health
sector, approaching 10 percent of GDP at the time of project design, and high levels of evasion of
social security contributions, led to the incorporation of specific objectives aimed at improving
efficiency and effectiveness of the resource management and allocation systems. Further, the
separation of financing and delivery functions was introduced as a means to promote
decentralization and generate further efficiency in the health sector.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The project supports the Government's effort to implement policy, institutional and operational
reforms aiming at improving the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of delivery of CCSS health
care services and enhance the quality control and surveillance system in the health sector. This will
be accomplished by: a) assisting the CCSS to implement institutional reforms at the central and
regional levels; b) implementing a redefined primary health care model; c) strengthening the CCSS
financing related to resource management, allocation and mobilization, reduction of premium
evasions, and pilot testing of alternative health financing models; and d) reengineering of the



                                                  - 3 -

National Surveillance and Quality Control Laboratory (INCIENSA).

3.3 Original Components:
Component I. CCSS Institutional Reform and Development (US$9.1 million or 28% of total project
costs). This component was to support technical assistance, specific studies, field surveys, seminars,
training and study tours areas through four subcomponents aimed at developing and strengthening: (a) the
CCSS organizational structure (US$1.4 million); (b) management information system (US$3.6 million); (c)
human resources development and manpower planning (US$1.6 million); and (d) pharmaceutical and
medical supplies system and rational use of medicines (US$2.5 million).

The main elements that were supported under this component (subcomponents (a) to (c)) were designed to
provide the CCSS with a redesigned organizational and functional structure that was oriented to the
separation of the pensions, healthcare and financial functions of the CCSS. To this end, the project
proposed to include support through management information systems (MIS) and human resource planning
and development. Prior to effectiveness, the CCSS provided the Bank with numerous studies and terms of
reference that were focused on supporting the component's objectives. A central aspect of this component
was the implementation of the Human Resources Development Fund that was to finance the requirements
of the CCSS training program for implementing the reforms. The Fund was to have been merit-based to
allow decentralized entities to obtain access to training funds.

The fourth subcomponent, Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies, was aimed at improvements in the system
of supplies of pharmaceutical and medical materials, and efforts to promote the rational use of medicines
by improving prescription and control practices. This component was intended to address the myriad
problems with the planning, procurement, distribution and prescription of pharmaceuticals encountered
during project design. The proposed measures were to have been implemented during the first two years of
the project.

Component II. Redefined Primary Health Care Model, Quality Assurance and Hospital Study
(US$17.0 million or 53.1% of total costs). This component was to address the organizational and technical
reforms needed to improve the coverage, quality and effectiveness of the primary health care services
provided by the CCSS. The component was to finance equipment, studies, training, study tours and
incremental salaries for staff transferred from the MOH to the CCSS. The component was to be executed
through three sub-components: (a) redefined primary health care model (US$16 million); (b) quality
assurance (US$0.5 million); and (c) Hospital Study (US$0.5 million).

Over 94 percent of the component's costs were allocated to the implementation of the redefined primary
care model. This component was to provide critical support for the implementation of primary care in the
CCSS. Prior to the project, primary care services were provided mainly through the MOH. As part of the
reform process, the MOH transferred all responsibility for direct provision of care to the CCSS, assuming
thereafter the functions of regulation and policy making. The component proposed to establish 74 health
areas (Areas Medicas) and 700 basic health teams (Equipo Basico de Atencion Integral de la Salud,
EBAIS) as the central strategy to making health services more responsive to community needs and to
improving access to a redesigned model of primary care services.

The remaining six percent of the component's costs were assigned to support technical assistance for
implementation of a quality assurance system and to the analysis and design of reforms for the hospital
sector. The quality assurance aspect was focused on the development of indicators and quality assurance
mechanisms in support of the PHC model. The hospital study proposed to establish a blueprint, similar to
that which was prepared for the PHC model, as the basis for the implementation of broader hospital reform


                                                      - 4 -

measures.

Component III. Resource Management and Pilot Testing of Alternative Models of Health Care
Financing (US$2.3 million or 7.2 percent of total project costs). This component was to finance studies,
information systems and pilot testing of alternative financing models to allocate and transfer resources to
all levels of care. The component consisted of four sub-components: (a) resource management, allocation,
and evaluation (US$0.9 million); (b) resource mobilization and improvement of the financial sustainability
of the CCSS (US$0.3 million); (c) review of existing alternative resource allocation models and alternative
delivery and financing models (US$0.6 million); and (d) pilot testing of alternative financing and
administration mechanisms (US$0.5 million).

The component focused on providing support for the two main areas related to financial management:
revenue generation and management and resource allocation. With regard to resource allocation, the
component was to support the introduction of mechanisms oriented towards replacing the historical
budgeting system with a performance-based resource allocation system, which would match expenditures
against program outcomes and institutional objectives. Three of the four subcomponents were focused on
carrying out studies, designing and testing resource allocation mechanisms. Areas that were targeted
include the introduction of capitation, diagnostic related groups (DRGs) and work on performance related
indicators.   The pilot testing of these instruments was assigned to subcomponent (d).

The fourth subcomponent was dedicated to analyzing and then developing instruments to reduce evasion
and improve revenue generation. Within this context, the Government agreed to gradually eliminate the
outstanding debt to the CCSS, to continue supporting the cost of care for the indigent and to introduce
improved resource mobilization.

Component IV. National Health Surveillance and Quality Control Laboratory (US$1.2 million or 3.8
percent of total project costs). Under this component the project was to support the strengthening of the
Costa Rican Institute of Scientific Research and Teaching of Nutrition and Health Sciences (INCIENSA)
in order to develop a National Health Surveillance and Quality Control Laboratory. This component was
included to support the transformation of the MOH into a regulatory body. The component was to finance
civil works for the laboratory, equipment and technical assistance.

Component V. Project Coordination Unit (US$2.4 million or 7.5 percent of total project costs). The
financing for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was allocated to a separate project component. This
component was to support the technical and financial management of the project. The PCU was to have a
project director and unit coordinators in charge of institutional development, administration and financial
management. The resources under the PCU were to finance technical assistance, study tours, training,
computer equipment and general operational expenditures for project administration.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no formally revised components. While there was no formal revision to the technical
content of the components, reallocation of funds were approved in 1996 and 2001, as shown in
Annex 2.b, to reflect actual expenditure patterns.

1. CCSS Institutional Reform and Development                                $ 4,300,000.00      S
2. Redefined Primary Health Care Model, Quality Assurance
         and Hospital Study                                                 $11,100,000.00      S
3. Resource Management and Pilot Testing of Alternative Models of
         Health Care Financing                                              $ 1,500,000.00      S



                                                      - 5 -

4.  Administration                                                      $ 1,900,000.00   S
5. National Health Surveillance and Quality Control Laboratory         $   900,000.00    S

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) and thus there
is no official assessment of the project's quality at entry. However, the preparation of the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) included a number of aspects related to quality assurance. The ICR finds
that the quality at entry process was satisfactory, producing a project that was consistent with
national objectives and the Bank's social sector strategy for Costa Rica. The goals established in
the Staff Appraisal Report, however, are considered to be highly ambitious for a health sector
reform and several of the subcomponents include activities that are not entirely consistent with the
overall objective of each component. Considerable support was provided to project design
through a Japanese Grant that financed many of the key studies and the development of terms of
reference that were critical for project implementation. Substantial documentation, related to key
project elements, was provided to the Bank prior to project effectiveness. In the case of the PHC
model, for example, the Japanese Grant provided financing for all the detailed design and
implementation instruments that were required for a rapid project launch. In addition, CCSS
staff actively participated in the preparation of the project, which substantiated Government
ownership of the project.

While the appraisal team agreed on an extensive list indicators for monitoring and evaluation of
the project outcomes, focused mainly on the PHC model, many project activities included in the
project lack a performance indicator. The absence of a monitoring and evaluation system, and
baseline data, is highlighted as an important limitation regarding the project's quality at entry. Of
the 30 key activities that were identified in the SAR, only 14 could be assigned evaluation
indicators. Two main subcomponents and component 4 showed no performance indicators. Most
of the project indicators focus on impact measures regarding improved health outcomes,
coverage, quality and efficiency of service delivery, all of which were part of the overall goals of
the project. The indicators that were established to monitor the project outputs, on a
component-by-component basis, were focused mainly on the first phase of the project and no
further indicators were established. This finding points to the need to establish yearly monitoring
indicators on a component-by-component basis.

Despite the lack of monitoring and evaluation indicators, the CCSS and the implementing agency
kept excellent information on the progress and impact of the reforms. The access to this
information facilitated the preparation of a full analysis of costs and benefits (see Annex 3) and
enriched the information available to the ICR team.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project has demonstrated an important impact on the achievement of the project's intended
objectives. Measured in terms of the achievement of overall project outcomes, the result has been
highly satisfactory. Table A1.b (Annex 1) outlines the main objectives, proposed actions in the
SAR and the key outcomes for each component and shows the high level of compliance with each
component. The reform process in Costa Rica made considerable progress in terms of the overall
objective to support the Government's efforts to implement critical policy, institutional and


                                                  - 6 -

operational reforms that aimed at improving efficiency, effectiveness and quality of the delivery of
health services by the Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social (CCSS). The success of the reform
process has been well documented by external evaluations, including PAHO, The National
Comptroller's Office (Controlaria General de la Republica) and the PNUD's State of the Nation
report. Without the project, it is highly likely that the Costa Rican reform process would have
moved slower, suffered increasing delays as administrations changed and reconsidered the
reform's direction, and made fewer changes in health financing. The challenges that were not met
by the project reflect ambitious initial goals, rather than a lack of political will or technical
knowledge to carry out the reforms. The project's achievements can be divided into health
outcomes and institutional changes.

In terms of health outcomes the project has made important contributions in four areas. First,
project interventions directly contributed to extending the primary care model to nearly 100
percent of the population. The official estimates indicate that the total population covered by the
redesigned primary health care model reached 88 percent in 2002, with 100 percent of the most
marginalized population covered by the PHC model. Despite the official rates of coverage, no
resident of the country is denied free access to health care under the Costa Rican system. The
official rates show the actual number of people, their dependents and state insured members that
are registered with the CCSS. Second, the improved capacity of the primary care services also
had a direct impact on the need for hospitalization, reducing the demand in at least seven key
areas of avoidable morbidity measured in a recent economic evaluation of the project: acute
respiratory infections; diarrhea; prenatal controls; hypertension; intestinal parasitosis; dermatitis;
and anemia. In total, an estimated 7,800 discharges were avoided from 1997 to 2001 based on
the improvements in primary care, with the principal avoidance in terms of hospitalized cases for
diarrhea, prenatal control and anemia. Third, infant mortality was reduced from 14 to 10.8 per
1,000 live deaths over the life of the project. A recent econometric analysis by Luis Rosero
("Tendencias y Perspectivas Demográficas de Costa Rica". Luis Rosero Bixby. Centro
Centroamericano de Población. Enero 2003) shows that the reforms in primary care were directly
responsible for the reduction in infant mortality by comparing those areas where the reforms were
implemented earlier with those areas that had not obtained access to the reformed PHC model.
Fourth, hospital infections were reduced significantly through improved monitoring and
evaluation under the management agreements and the development of quality assurance
mechanisms. Between 1995 and 2002 more than 485,000 hospital days were avoided by reducing
the hospital infection rate from over 15 percent to just under 6 percent. The estimated savings
from this reduction amount to an average of nearly US$8 million per year or nearly US$47 million
between 1996 and 2002. In reduced antibiotic consumption alone, the reduction is estimated to
have saved nearly US$4 million over the life of the project.

With regard to institutional changes, the project also demonstrates important progress in terms
of the introduction of the PHC model, the separation of functions, changes in financial resource
management, and the introduction of performance based payment systems. In terms of project
outcomes, five main changes are identifiable:

First, the introduction of a redesigned PHC model exceeded the project's initial expectations both
in terms of scope and scale, reflecting the government's continued political will and technical



                                                   - 7 -

efforts to reform PHC.
The project divided the country into 98 health areas (versus the 74 that were originally planned)
and established 818 Basic Health Teams (Equipos Basicos de Atencion Integral de la Salud, (
EBAIS)) (in comparison to original estimates of 700), providing for 96 percent coverage, as a
share of the total EBAIS required for the entire country, of the redesigned health care model.
The investment in equipment, training and materials to support to the PHC model exceeded the
proposed component costs of US$16 million. In equipment alone, total project costs in this
component surpassed the original estimate by more than US$2 million. In addition, the
incremental salaries of MOH staff that were transferred to the CCSS totals more than US$36
million, of which only US$5.8 million was covered by the project. In total, the CCSS invested
more than US$30 million of it own resources, in addition to project costs, to support the
implementation of the PHC model.

Second, the main objective of separating organizational functions within the CCSS was largely
achieved. The ICR finds that the original goals were highly ambitious and did not fully consider
the link with the complex decentralization process. While some of the organizational
restructuring that was envisaged in the project design was not fully implemented, due to political
difficulties in managing the change process and technical and timing issues related to the
decentralization process, key changes are notable. Following project effectiveness, all pension
management was separated from the health and disability insurance of the social security institute.
A separate pensions vice presidency was created and full financial separation was established. As
a result of the project, cross-subsidization from pensions to health was eliminated and
administrative costs were more effectively allocated. In addition, the classical structure of health
and maternity insurance Seguro de Enfermedad y Maternidad was replaced with a Seguro de
Salud (National Health Insurance) which underscores the universal nature of the CCSS health
insurance component.

Following CCSS reorganization, steps were made to further separate the CCSS financing and
provision. The more notable changes include: (a) the introduction of 133 management contracts
(compromisos de gestión) between the CCSS and its 29 hospitals and 98 Health Areas (Areas de
Salud), (b) the approval of a Law on Decentralization (Desconcentración), which facilitates the
gradual introduction of greater autonomy for health providers, formalizes the management
agreements as the governing instrument to regulate the provider network and established 124
health boards (Juntas de Salud) to monitor the delivery of services in all health areas and for all
hospitals; and (c) the decentralization process reduced the percentage of administrative staff from
over 25 percent in 1994 to 22 percent in 2001.     While none of these measures were specifically
identified in the project SAR, with these changes the CCSS demonstrated the highest level of
political commitment and technical knowledge in the management of the CCSS reorganization
and the introduction of the separation of functions.

The law on decentralization and its regulations made important strides to improve the incentives
facing hospital and clinic directors by removing the "named for life" characteristic of being a
hospital director and replacing it with a flexible policies that allow directors to be removed for
lack of performance. Under the new law, directors are named for five years and can be reelected
or discharged from their position in cases of non-compliance with management contracts.



                                                 - 8 -

Furthermore, it establishes the possibility of hospital and clinic audits by the CCSS Central
Administration if they do not adhere to guidelines and management contracts.

The Decentralization Law gives hospitals and clinics the power to procure goods and services,
including direct purchase of medicines in the market when required. They are authorized to do
internal budget modifications and to negotiate external modifications, as long as they adhere to
the economic limits set in the management contracts. The efficiency of the decentralization
process will depend on the development of better internal managerial capability, a situation that is
less serious at hospital level.

Third, the introduction of performance-based payments for hospitals, whereby the hospitals
receive notional budgets based on the production of services rather than historical budgets, had
several important results. The new budgetary system reversed the stagnation in production that
was evident prior to the reforms, increasing total hospital production from 295,000 discharges in
1994 to around 340,000 in 2002, while the percentage of relative spending allocated to hospitals
fell by around 3 percent. The payment system, which promoted efficiency in terms of the average
length of stay, reduced hospital stays from 6.1 in 1993 to 5.4 in 2001. The economic analysis
shows that rate of reduction increased significantly with the introduction of the hospital payment
systems and the use of diagnostic-related groups (DRGs) as an instrument for clinical
management. Greater efficiency is also notable regarding human resource spending. From 1995
to 2001, the percentage of expenditure allocated to personnel fell from over 65 percent to just 59
percent. Finally, new payment systems included a capitated system for primary care. Under this
system, all health areas receive a capitated fee. Over the seven years of the project, the
introduction of capitation has gradually reduced the inequities in the allocation of resources
amongst regions.

Fourth, the introduction of a national, fully-automated system for social security contribution
collections had an important impact on the institution's revenue efficiency. Achievements are
notable in two areas. First, the real revenues per insured person increased by 29 percent between
1996 and 2002, reflecting underlying annual real growth rates of around 5 percent per year, in
comparison with pre-reform average annual real growth rates of 2.5%, demonstrating that the
project was effective at improving revenue efficiency. The incremental revenues over the
1996-2002 period are estimated at US$175 million. At the same time, the internal efficiency of the
system improved. At present 35 of the 72 branch offices are online with the system, providing
fully automated revenue collection and improving the billing control in a centralized system. The
average billing cycle has been reduced by an estimated 10 days, implying gains of $6 million per
year. The system also serves as the basis for the collection of the pension system contributions.
CCSS recovers a 0.75 percent commission on pension contributions, thereby making the system
self-financing and fully sustainable. And, finally, the automation has reduced congestion at the
central offices by improving the capacity of branch offices to process payrolls. Furthermore,
many of the large employers now process their payroll contributions online. The government also
reduced its net debt burden to CCSS health insurance by over US$12 million, from US$31 million
to US$19 million between 1997 and 2002 (Annex 8).




                                                 - 9 -

Fifth, in general value for money appears to have improved significantly with the initial
introduction of the contracting mechanisms and the performance-based payment system. CCSS
expenditures were reduced from 4.5% of GDP in 1996 to 4.1% in 1999 and 4.3% in 2000 (see
Annex 8). At the same time, total public spending, including MOH and other sector institutions,
was reduced from over 6 percent of GDP in 1995 to around 5.3 percent in 2001. The total
number of discharges, outpatient visits and important health status indicators, such as infant
mortality and life expectancy, improved during this time period. At the same time, the
strengthening of PHC was accompanied by an internal redistribution of funds from hospitals to
primary care. Over the life of the project, the percentage of CCSS health spending allocated to
PHC increased from around 15 percent (prior to reforms) to over 23 percent in 2002. This
increase was made possible through a relative reduction in hospital spending and concerted efforts
to use annual spending increases to disproportionately favor primary care. In summary, the
reforms provided important instruments to allow the Government to do more with less. Given
that containing escalating health care costs was one of the key reform objectives, it would appear
that the CCSS made important progress toward this goal.




4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: CCSS Institutional Reform and Development

Satisfactory. The main objective of separating the organizational functions of the CCSS (policy
level, pensions, health insurance and health service delivery) was achieved. However, the two
sub-components that-- were not directly related to the separation of functions--Human Resource
Development and Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies System--experienced limited progress.

Achievement of the main objective of separating organizational functions within the CCSS is
underscored by the separation of all pension management from the health and disability insurance
of the social security institute, the 1998 approval of the Law on Decentralization and the
implementation of various technical instruments to separate the financing and provision of health
care services in the CCSS. A separate pensions vice presidency was created and full financial
separation was established. As a result of the project, cross-subsidization from the pensions vice
presidency to the health vice presidency was eliminated and administrative costs were more
effectively allocated.

To promote the separation of purchasing and provision of services, the Health Services
Purchasing Department (Direccion de compra) was formally established and staffed to manage
the contracting and evaluation process. The separation of functions between the CCSS and the
MoH, which aimed at separating the regulatory and stewardship function (to be developed in the
MOH) from the financing and provision function (assumed by the CCSS), was also effectively
accomplished, thus eliminating the costly duplicity in personnel and infrastructure. During the
process, around 1600 staff members were transferred from the MoH to the CCSS. However, the
full development of the MOH as a regulatory and policy-making body has lagged behind. Lack of
technical capability and political support, and as a consequence insufficient budgetary allocations,
appear to be the main causes.

Despite the progress in separating the CCSS main functional areas, the internal reorganization of


                                                - 10 -

the CCSS lags behind the development of instruments and a legal framework to support the
decentralization process. Interviewers unanimously identified the lack of political will and
leadership to control the interest groups (feudos de poder) within the CCSS as the main obstacles
to achieve the separation of functions and decentralization. The CCSS Board of Directors
approved the separation and decentralization of functions in 1997, so that the directors of the
period 1998-2002 were faced with the implementation of the agreement. While many of the
technical complications regarding decentralization have been addressed, there are many
outstanding issues regarding the distribution of rights and responsibilities between the central and
local levels. The delays in implementing the CCSS reorganization are often cited as a key hurdle
for the reform process.

There has been steady progress in implementing the decentralization of functions proposed by the
project. The Law on Decentralization was approved in 1998, followed by the approval of the
regulations governing the law, which were approved in 1999, and implementation initiated in
2001 with 15 health care providers. The decentralization has been gradually implemented with a
total of 34 centers (out of 133) operating under decentralized rules by 2002. These 34 centers,
however, constitute nearly 80 percent of the total CCSS health spending.

The project supported the creation of Health Boards (Juntas de Salud) and strengthened planning
processes at the CCSS with the introduction of a service delivery plan "Plan de Atención a la
Salud de las Personas" as an instrument to link health resource investment with community
health needs. The project also supported the development of a semi-autonomous superintendency
within the CCSS to promote quality assurance and users' rights. The Superintendency,
denominated SUGESS, provides users with a network of health services ombudsmen to voice
concerns over treatment and quality, evaluates the quality of services and provides an unbiased
evaluation of management agreement targets. The SUGESS was an initiative that developed
internally, without prompting by the project framework, to ensure transparency in the separation
of functions and to increase user's rights within the system. While the SUGESS could have been
given more autonomy and authority as an external entity to the CCSS, a strategic decision was
made to introduce these functions within the CCSS organizational structure and to later consider
greater autonomy.

The project trained 232 administrative staff and 14,888 course and seminar participants. Roughly
60 percent of all CCSS management received training under the project. The project also
supported the development of five masters programs: (a) Masters in Health Economics (66
graduates); (b) training in Public Health Management (36 graduates); (c) Masters in Epidemiology
(16 graduates); (d) Masters in Public Health (15 graduates); and (e) Masters in Health Services
Administration (18 graduates). In addition to these programs directly related to developing
management capacity, hundreds of personnel were trained in change management, specialized
postgraduate programs in accounting, nursing, PHC model and public administration. Overall
interview responses show that training quality was high and adequate in quantity and timing to
respond to the organizational changes targeted by the project.

The project maintained a concerted effort to include communication efforts throughout the reform
process. The PCU employed a press officer and numerous activities, materials and supplies and
consultancies were financed under this component to inform the internal and external clients of
the reforms. The communication efforts were critical to the project's success.



                                                - 11 -

The SAR projected an expenditure of $1.4 million in order to accomplish the separation of
functions and decentralization in the health sector. The actual spending, however, represented
only 52% of this amount or $729,000, as most of the activities were carried out under component
III.

Besides the separation of functions and decentralization, component I included the improvement
of the manpower planning and the drugs and medical supplies system, and the achievement of a
more rational use of medicines. The former activity included studies to analyze existing norms
and staffing, personnel incentives and civil service norms applied to the central and regional
offices of all three CCSS units. The project supported an extensive study by the University of
Costa Rica regarding alternative staff employment arrangements, however, the recommendations
were not implemented. At the same time, improvements were not achieved in the CCSS-owned
pharmaceutical and medical supplies system. Additionally options were to have been explored for
private contractors to manage the handling and distribution of supplies. Little progress was made
to improve the rational use of medicines by introducing cost-effective prescribing, correct dosage
and improved communication to patients.

The component envisaged the development of a fully-integrated information system to address all
of the CCSS management information system needs. The project supported the development of
an information system for the purchase and inventory management of drugs and supplies. The
overall MIS was not completed for several important reasons: (a) the resources required to
finance a project of this nature were not included in the project; (b) the delays in decentralization
made it unclear how functions would be distributed amongst the levels; and (c) key areas were
addressed initially, such as the billing and pharmaceuticals, and the overall approach was left for
future development.

In conclusion, the main objective was achieved and the project was key to the reorganization of
the CCSS. The delays or limitations in achieving some of the additional objectives are mainly due
to the difficulty of organizational change and the feasibility of implementing institution-wide
projects with limited resources. Not surprisingly, the component's total expenditure of $3.4
million is only 35% of the projected amount in the SAR of $9.8 million. A straightforward
evaluation of this component, however, is complicated by two compounding factors. First, the
implementation of many of the activities proposed under this component was carried out under
Component III, Resource Allocation. The CCSS made a strategic decision to combine the
studies and implementation of reforms regarding the separation of functions and the introduction
of performance-based payment mechanisms. As a result, many of the disbursement targets and
outputs are allocated to Component III. Second, although several indicators were defined in the
SAR to monitor the component's activities, output data are limited mainly to training.

Component 2: Redefined Primary Health Care Model, Quality Assurance System, and
Hospital Study Highly satisfactory. The overall component objective of implementing the
redefined PHC model in the CCSS, including the transfer of functions from the MOH to the
CCSS, was fully accomplished. The redefined Primary Health Care Model (PHC model) is
probably the most significant achievement of the reform process supported by the project.
Coverage was assured by creating 102 Health Areas in the country's territory (98 are already
installed or 96%), each of which comprises around ten to fourteen basic medical units called
EBAIS. In total 818 EBAIS have been established covering 88% of the country's population.



                                                 - 12 -

Medical equipment was acquired and new personnel were hired to implement the new PHC
model. The model was fully implemented in the poorest areas of the country.

In order to introduce the integrated health care packages for children, adolescents, adults, elderly
and women, 222 health professionals and 1274 auxiliary staff were trained. The transfer of around
1600 staff members from the MoH to the CCSS not only underscored the separation of functions
between the Ministry and the CCSS, but also made the successful implementation of the PHC
model possible. The process was accompanied by a shift of budgetary allocations toward the
primary health care level, increasing its share of health insurance expenditure from 19% in 1997 to
22% in 2002.

This component played an instrumental role in achieving the project's overall objective of
extending access, increasing efficiency and improving quality. The extensive efforts to implement
the PHC-model produced an expenditure of $48.8 million, representing 305% of the projected
spending in the SAR of $16 million. The main element contributing to this overspending was the
incremental salary of new staff of $36.6 million, thus by itself exceeding the project's total budget
of $32 million and the allocation for incremental salaries of US$5.8 million. In part, the difference
between the initial estimate for incremental salaries and the actual project expenditures is due to
the additional 2 years of project implementation, the increase in the total number of EBAIS that
were implemented to ensure adequate population coverage and additional salary increases that
were negotiated during the project period. Nonetheless, the original design of the project did not
adequately estimate the incremental cost of the model.

During the implementation process, CCSS has identified several issues that should be addressed in
the future. While these aspects were not necessarily part of the original project design, they will
be important for the effectiveness and sustainability of the model. As such, the Bank-financed
Second Health Reform Project that is already under execution will address many of these issues.
There are four main outstanding issues:

First, despite the incorporation of quality indicators into the management agreements and the
development of protocols for primary care, the deployment of a full-scale continuous quality
improvement model has not been implemented. The transition has been slow to a new care
paradigm, with integrated health services, including family doctors, community services,
promotional activities and the emphasis on preventive health services as a mean to improve
cost-effectiveness. While important advances have been made in the development of protocols,
progress is limited in implementing effective referral pathways between primary and secondary
and between primary/secondary and tertiary level facilities. There is a lack of coordination
between the primary level and the secondary and tertiary health service levels.

Second, the rapid deployment of the PHC model has outpaced the development of managerial
capacity in the health areas, including some limitations regarding equipment at several EBAIS and
slow development of an information system to monitor and evaluate PHC services. In reality, the
political pace of implementation appears to have outpaced the technical pace of implementation,
creating some gaps in the model.

Third, the development of Health Boards was an excellent initiative to increase community
participation. Now support from community organizations in defining the health services mix and
in participating with quality control needs to be improved. Training quality also needs to be



                                                - 13 -

improved for the members of the "Juntas de Salud". Appropriate incentives for community
members to participate in decision making should be incorporated into the model.

Fourth, significant progress was made towards increasing competition in the provision of health
services but not as much as was originally envisaged in the SAR. Regulations were approved by
the CCSS Board to govern the contracting of private providers, management contracts were
designed and implemented to regulate the private provision of care with CCSS funds, and
important progress was made in developing the capacity to evaluate the private provision of care
under these contracts. The CCSS increased outsourcing of ancillary services, contracted out
nearly 30 percent of the population's under the primary care model to private and cooperative
providers in metropolitan area, and it increased the purchase of diagnostic services from private
providers. However, little progress was made in introducing competition at the hospital and
secondary care level.

Component 3: Resource Management and Pilot Testing of Alternative Health Care Financing

Highly Satisfactory. By fully implementing changes in resource mobilization and resource
allocation, this component surpassed the component's objectives which were focused on
developing studies and pilot projects to improve resource mobilization and resource allocation.
This subcomponent expenditure's reached $4.29 million, representing 477% of the spending
projected in the SAR of $0.9 million, reflecting the execution of many of the activities originally
designed as part of the Component I.

The project made important progress in introducing mechanisms to promote greater equity and
efficiency. Improvements in the equity of resource allocation are evident at the primary care
level, with the capitated payment mechanisms implemented in 1997. Over the past 5 years, the
variation in per capita expenditures among Health Areas has been significantly reduced.
Improvements in efficiency are notable both in terms of the shift on resource allocation towards
primary care with relative percentage of funds received by PHC from around 15 pre-reform to
around 23 percent post-reform. The average length of stay at hospitals decreased and production
of discharges and consultations increased more than 10 percent and 32 percent, respectively over
the 1996-2002 period.

Many of these gains were made possible by the introduction of management agreements, entitled
Compromisos de Gestion, between the Health Services Contracting Department and the hospitals
and health area providers. The management agreements clarified the results expected from
providers and introduced for the first time indicators to evaluate the performance of providers
with a link to resource transfers. This contributed to greater transparency and to an "efficiency
culture" that never existed before.

The component introduced for all 29 hospitals a performance-based payment system, based on the
introduction of a unique unit of hospital production--the UPH (unidad de produccion
hospitalaria). This production unit allowed the CCSS to link payments to production and replace
the historical budget for hospitals with a performance-based budget. The system was
implemented and tested at first as a shadow-payment mechanism and then in 2000 linked to the
budget. Even before it was actually linked to the budget, the payment system served to stimulate
hospital production and the number of surgeries, reduce the average length of stay, and create a
culture of performance.



                                                - 14 -

In practice, it has been difficult to punish providers for lack of compliance and incentive systems
have not yet been implemented to reward individual employees for stellar performance, although
they have been developed and approved by the CCSS Board for implementation. As some
interviewees commented, the main reason for the delay in fully linking resource transfers to
performance indicators and the achievement of goals is that, in the end, any sanction imposed on a
public health provider will be paid either by the CCSS itself or by the insured in the form of a even
more severe rationing of health services, but not by those individuals responsible for the failure to
meet contract targets. To this extent, the implementation of the payment mechanisms cannot be
considered independently of the implementation of decentralization.

While the instruments were fully developed and deployed under the project, there are number of
political aspects, critical to the long-term success of the model, that have not been addressed. In
particular, sanctions affect the provider's budget, but not staff salaries, incentive payments or
employment conditions; and providers face a captured demand which limits incentives to increase
efficiency and quality. The CCSS has designed additional actions to increase competition at the
hospital level but these measures have not been implemented.

The second subcomponent targeted health insurance revenues. It was intended to reduce evasion
and increase affiliation, to analyze the feasibility of co-payments, deductibles and cost-recovery of
services to non-insured, to seek to reduce the outstanding Government debt with the CCSS, and
to evaluate the financial effect of alternative delivery systems such as "medicina de empresa",
"medicina mixta" and "libre elección".

The main objectives of this subcomponent were fully achieved. Driven by the increased
expenditure on information systems, total expenditure of this subcomponent amounted to $4.37
million or 1456% of the 0.3 million projected in the SAR. A major effort was undertaken to
improve the collection of insurance contributions and to better train staff members. The most
notable improvement was the development and deployment of the universal revenue collection
mechanism, Sistema Centralizado de Recaudación (SICERE) which was instituted in 2000 to
centralize all health and pension premium collections. The new system has been deployed in more
than half of all CCSS branch offices resulting in estimated savings of US$6 million per year due to
reduced processing times..

In 2000, the Law on Worker Protection (Ley de Proteccion del Trabajador) was approved
marking the introduction of broader powers for the CCSS' efforts to reduce evasion. The Law
also promotes the universalization of contributions introducing mandatory contributions for all
formal and informal sector workers. Despite the introduction of the Law, little progress has been
made in increasing total affiliation. As a percentage of the total economically active population,
the share of insured remains stable at around 65 percent. The driving factor behind CCSS
affiliation, however, has to do with wider macroeconomic and labor market conditions--several
years of recession have cut deeply into informal employment, reducing the effectiveness of simple
comparisons of formal insurance.

Major reductions were made in Government debt to the CCSS both as an employer and as
contributor for the indigent. Between 1993 and 2001, the average debt (estimated as the
difference between what the Government should pay and what is actually sent to the CCSS) was
reduced from over 65 percent to just over 14 percent (See Annex 8). In real terms, the
accumulated debt between the Government and the CCSS was reduced from US$31 million to


                                                  - 15 -

US$19 million, representing a net revenue gain of US$12 million for the Health Insurance. This
has had a major impact on CCSS revenues and was an important by product of the project
negotiation which brought light to the magnitude of the debt and established targets for debt
reduction. At the same time, the outstanding debt to the CCSS was also reduced significantly,
with the loan obligations assumed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The project also managed
to promote the interchange of information between the CCSS, the MOF and the National
Insurance Institute (INS) which triangulates reported income between the three institutions and
thereby allows inspectors to more effectively target evasion.

Another major goal of component III was the development and subsequent testing of Diagnostic
Related Groups (DRG) that facilitated clinical management. DRGs were successfully introduced
in 24 out of 29 hospitals and 850 health staff were trained in the use of DRGs. Interviewees
recognize the usefulness of the DRGs to improve inpatients´ information, support health
management and reduce costs in hospitals.

The DRG implementation in Costa Rica was the first attempt to implement the full DRG model,
with 511 groups of procedures, in Latin America. The process resulted in a significant learning
experience.    Some of the key lessons learned include: (1) The introduction of DRGs is a complex
task that involves high consensus and a great amount of training. Although the DRGs were
originally envisioned to serve promptly as payment mechanisms, its introduction has been quite
successful as a clinical management tool oriented to benchmarking hospital performance, but has
not yet served as a financial reimbursement mechanism; (2) the failure to create financial
incentives to use the DRGs limited the interest of directors, administrators and clinicians in the
use of the tool; (3) training to use DRGs was insufficient and many users continue to perceive
them as complicated, almost not understandable, and difficult to use. In fact, DRGs are not used
in the training of senior and middle management; (4) it is perceived that DRGs were not adapted
to the "Costa Rican health model" or the "Costa Rican hospital culture", as several interviewees
pointed out; (5) the need to allocate sufficient resources to renewing licenses and providing
ongoing technical support and training to staff were not fully estimated; and (6) DRGs were not
integrated into the hospital information system and therefore they are not regarded as part of an
integrated management system. As an alternative, gradual phasing in could have been reached by
defining a slowly increasing fraction of budgetary assignments subject to results in terms of
DRGs.

In addition to the introduction and testing of DRGs, this subcomponent also included the review
and pilot-testing of fixed capitation transfers, improvements in hospital administration supported
by the development and introduction of the MIS-module in hospitals (Management Information
System on hospital administration), testing of the referral system and the increased participation of
private providers. In these areas, progress is notable in two of the four areas. Capitation
payments were introduced as part of the separation of function under the management
agreements. At present, all health areas receive their annual budget based on the total population,
without risk adjustment, eliminating the historical budgeting that characterizes the pre-reform
phase.
At the same time, private providers and NGOs assumed an increasing role in the provision of
primary care services but were not financed by the project. During the project period,
management contracts were extended using NGOs and cooperatives to cover more than 300,000
people in the metropolitan area. These contracts have been established with the University of


                                                  - 16 -

Costa Rica, cooperatives and a private, non-profit provider. The provision of services under
these contracts has shown excellent results in comparison with the traditional CCSS model,
indicating that the private sector can provide the PHC package at a considerable cost-saving in
comparison to the traditional, public model. Expenditure for the DRG systems and resource
allocation technical assistance amounted to $1.37 million or 228% of the $0.6 million projected in
the SAR. For pilot-testing several alternative delivery and financing systems only $0.086 million
or 17% of the projected $0.5 million were used, however actual expenditures, assumed by the
CCSS, amount to more than US$10 million per year.

Component 4: National Health Surveillance and Quality Control Laboratory

Satisfactory. Component 4 achieved its intended objective to strengthen the Costa Rican
Institute of Scientific Research and Teaching of Nutrition and Health Sciences (INCIENSA) by
establishing a National Health Surveillance and Quality Control Laboratory. The laboratory
facilities for infectious diseases and febrile and hemorrhagic diseases were rehabilitated,
contributing to Costa Rica's ability to detect and control TB and strengthening INCIENSA's
capacity to provide overall epidemiological surveillance in these areas. An integrated information
system was developed and implemented facilitating INCIENSA's management of critical
information. INCIENSA staff received considerable training and technical assistance. This
component was executed entirely by INCIENSA and was dependent on the MOH budget for
counterpart funds. This organizational separation led to some problems in coordination with the
project's PCU. Furthermore, limited MOH counterpart funding slowed down the component's
execution.

Component 5: Project Coordination Unit

Component V provided ongoing support to the project's administration. The project was
successfully managed during the seven years of project implementation, accruing a total
expenditure of US$ 2.37 million out of an allocated US$2.4 million. Between 1995 and 1998 the
PCU was dependent on the Executive President's office of the CCSS, facilitating direct
communication and a high level of execution. Starting in 1998, the Modernization Vice
Presidency was created at the CCSS to be in charge of the coordination of all external financing
supporting the reform process at the CCSS. The PCU then became a sub-unit of the
Modernization Vice Presidency. This change was accompanied by staff changes, and execution
slowed considerably while the project adjusted to the new organizational arrangement. To its
credit, after a 6-8 month delay, the PCU quickly resumed implementation and overcame the
short-term challenge of reorganization. The PCU developed significant financial management
capacity although not always at the level required by Bank standards. Although it was not
included as part of the original project design, a major deficiency was the failure to implement an
adequate monitoring and evaluation system.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The reform process produced significant efficiency gains and improvements in the population's
health that have been estimated to yield benefits with a net present value (NPV) of US$86 million
and an economic rate of return (ERR) of 69 percent. The present value of the project's benefits
was US$254 million, far exceeding the original SAR estimates of US$41 million in total benefits.



                                                  - 17 -

The cost-benefit analysis that was prepared as part of the ICR process includes benefits in the
following areas: (a) reduced hospitalization for avoidable morbidity including: parasitic
infections, respiratory infection, diarrhea, hypertension, anemia, pre-natal care and dermatitis; (b)
reduced hospital infection rates which decreased the use of antibiotics and bed days; (c) a
reduction in the Average Length of Stay, yielding many savings in variable costs; (d) the reduction
in infant mortality; and (e) reductions in the process time for the CCSS billing system that yields
important savings in financial costs.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Highly satisfactory. Several positive institutional impacts of the project are clear. The separation
of functions between the CCSS and the MoH was effectively accomplished. The CCSS has
initiated its restructuring into independent vice presidencies (starting with pensions, health care
and financial management). And, the health care unit has introduced a clearly defined Primary
Health Care level and 7 regional offices for administrative decentralization. Second, all of the
significant project accomplishments-- separation of functions, PHC model, revenue mobilization,
resource allocation, DRGs and decentralization-- were fully institutionalized.

The implementation and coordination of the project constitutes an invaluable experience for those
who participated closely in the process. Consultants were qualified by the Bank, but selected and
contracted by the CCSS. They attended evaluation, coordination and follow up meetings to
monitor the accomplishment of targets and the execution of budgets. National counterparts had to
present follow-up reports monthly or every two months. The regular monitoring and evaluation
has been beneficial to both senior management at the central offices and to those in the periphery
directly involved in the execution of reform actions. The institutional capability to develop and
implement reform programs and to collect and analyze data to assess program progress has been
strengthened.

The Bank procurement procedures used during the project were regarded by the interviewees as
efficient, fast, clear and in accordance with national legal framework. Conducting Bank
procurement processes during the reform project has clearly strengthened institutional capabilities
and the PCU developed significant skill in managing complex, dual bidding procedures (see 5.2,
below).


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Three changes in government posed important challenges to the project's sustainability but did not alter the
course of reform. Throughout the three changes in government, the project's main reform objectives were
maintained and the principal activities continued. Nonetheless, each change of government implied at least
12 months of delay. During the first change of administration, in 1998, there was a short period during
which the project was rated as "unsatisfactory" as the new administration froze implementation to
reconsider the depth and pace of reform. Once the new administration affirmed the positive direction of the
reforms, project execution was resumed and the "satisfactory" rating was once again obtained. As the
1998-2002 administration evolved, important measures were taken to consolidate the reform process by
approving substantive legislation in support of decentralization, management agreements and the efforts to



                                                     - 18 -

improve revenue mobilization. Overall, the CCSS was quick to adjust to changing situations.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the period 1996-1998 the project was subject to restrictions in financing from the Ministry of
Finance. This reduced the pace of implementation. In addition, the failure to fully implement the
procurement process under Bank procurement guidelines, due to ambiguous rulings by the National
Comptrollers Office (Contraloría General de la República) produced long procurement processes, as the
CCSS was forced to carry out the procurement process under both Bank and National procurement rules.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During the first four years of the project, no coordinator was assigned for component I, Institutional
Strengthening, thereby reducing the effectiveness in the implementation of this component (in the original
project design, the PCU was not assigned a coordinator for this area). Lack of clear definition and an
organizational mandate in this area reduced execution in this areas.

Overall during the life of the project, most of the PCU staff was highly stable, producing a high level of
continuity and increasing specialization. However, the failure to introduce new personnel reduced the
overall effectiveness of the PCU and contributed to organizational inertia.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total expenditures incurred for the project, including consulting services, works and equipment financed by
CCSS funds were US$65.4 million, or 204% of the total estimated project cost estimated at appraisal of
US$32 million. Disbursements reached 98 percent of total project funds. Most of the cost increases were
incurred in the additional equipment required for the redesigned PHC model and the incremental salaries for
staff transferred from the MOH to the CCSS or employed to increase the capacity of the PHC network.
The disbursement cycle suffered delays, principally in the years prior to and post elections (1998 and
2002), extending the project cycle from 5 years to over 7 years.

The total project cost of $32 million was to be financed by the Government and the Bank at 34% to 66%
ratio, respectively. However, the Government ended up financing more than 67% and the Bank at 33% of
the actual total expenditures.

The most prominent procurement method envisioned at appraisal was other methods (56%) followed by
international competitive bidding (ICB: 17% of total costs), local competitive bidding (NCB: 9%) and
non-bank financed (NBF) at 18 percent. In reality, procurement methods followed closely the original
allocation in the SAR, with the exception of the dramatic increase in NBF due to the CCSS incremental
contributions to the project. In sum, ICB was used for 10% of the total cost, while LCB was used for only
6% of the total costs, NBF was the most common procurement method with 56 percent, and other methods
with 29 percent.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Highly Likely. The reform measures introduced under the project are very likely to be sustained. Under
component I, the actions that were taken have been fully institutionalized, including the approval of a
Decentralization Law and a full regulatory framework for its implementation. In addition, the separation of
functions has been fully integrated into the institutional framework. The training provided has been
integrated into the CCSS training unit, CENDEISS, and courses developed under the project are now part
of the standard curricula for health professionals.




                                                      - 19 -

The actions under component II are now fully integrated into the CCSS, as the last 3 years of the project
witnessed full control of the implementation process by the CCSS. Moreover, steady increases in the share
of funds to PHC (rising to 23 percent in 2002) provide for a sustainable basis of the investment made under
this component.

Component III has also made important progress in institutionalizing the changes. All changes in resource
allocation mechanisms have been assumed as a part of the standard budgeting process, the management
agreements are now signed with all CCSS providers, public and private, and fully govern the objectives and
payment mechanisms for providers. The SICERE and changes in revenue generation are fully sustainable
as both have independent legal frameworks (Ley de proteccion al trabajador) and are self-financing. The
areas where additional support will be required to fully institutionalize the instruments developed under the
project include: full implementation of the DRG system and the more profound changes in payment
mechanisms to hospitals, shifting from a budget based on production to a revenue based budget based on
the services produced and placing hospitals at risk for compliance with the management agreements and the
performance targets. The actions under component IV are expected to be sustained as they have been fully
assumed by INCIENSA.

The Government prepared, with the Bank's assistance, a second project that addresses many of the issues
that are pending consolidation from the first project, such as reorganization, financing mechanisms, DRGs
and others. The Second Health Reform Project is already effective. For the short- to medium-term, policy
changes intend to: (a) align the organizational and functional structure of the CCSS with recent changes
separating financing, purchasing and provision of health services at all levels; (b) promote improvements in
quality and fulfillment of consumer rights, as well as the efficiency and effectiveness of the Ministry of
Health (MOH) as a regulatory agency, by strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework; (c)
improve the quality and efficiency of the CCSS health delivery system by supporting decentralization of
decision-making, consolidation of the primary care delivery network based on a population-based system,
and introduction of performance-based incentives for providers; (d) reduce inefficiencies in the
pharmaceutical sub-sector and promote rational drug use by introducing changes in the planning,
purchasing and distribution of pharmaceuticals and supplies; and (e) develop financial mechanisms that
will improve the equitable distribution of resources, improve efficiency in the provider payment
mechanisms and strengthen the CCSS capacity to collect payroll contributions.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As cited in 6.1, most of the activities financed by the project have been fully integrated into the
CCSS organizational and functional structure. The CCSS vice presidencies maintain full control
over the instruments developed and continue to support their full implementation. Furthermore,
the PCU has been mostly maintained for the execution of the Second Health Reform Project that
was approved on June, 2001.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The participation of the Bank in the design and consensus building related to the reforms
was considered exemplary by the key stakeholders interviewed during the ICR preparation process. The
Bank contributed to the policy debate during the design phase and provided important support to the
transition period between governments. The CCSS had four different Executive Presidents since project
design started in 1992. Three Government administrations carried out the project over time and a fourth
one participated of the last six months of project life. During this period the Bank served as a catalyst and



                                                     - 20 -

helped to build consensus for the reform process among different political groups.     The main deficiency is
related to the inadequate estimation of the recurrent cost of the PHC model and the underestimation of the
cost to implement complex organizational reforms and information systems, for which sufficient resources
were not provided under the loan. The initial project design also established highly ambitious goals for the
CCSS, underestimating the complexity of the reform process.

7.2 Supervision:
Highly Satisfactory. In general, Bank supervision efforts were satisfactory. The project had four Task
Managers over the life of the project but the PCU and the Bank maintained a common line and
sophisticated policy dialogue. Two Bank missions a year were standard and close communication by video
conferencing helped to maintain a close relationship with the client. On particular occasions the client was
invited to Bank Headquarters to discuss particular issues and in general to ease the transition between one
government administration to the next. Lack of more concise and easily accessible project indicators from
the early stages of the project made it difficult to evaluate progress with concrete measures. However,
supervision efforts used client reports and evaluations of the reform process as a guide for monitoring
project progress. In general the Bank was flexible and accommodated new situations and demands without
compromising the technical quality of its advice and the progress of the reform.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Highly Satisfactory. The Bank has been a major supporter of the health reform process in Costa Rica.
Through an excellent partnership with Costa Ricans, the Bank has supported the dissemination of the
health reform process both internally within Costa Rica as well as internationally. There is growing
interest in the Costa Rica experience in the Latin American Region. The Bank demonstrated considerable
flexibility with regard to the technical and policy contributions to the reform process and was a valuable
partner working to ensure continuity of the reforms. On the administrative side, Bank procedures were
often an additional complexity, on top of already cumbersome local procedures, which were an obstacle to
efficiency. Another shortfall regarding Bank performance is underscored by the lack of a monitoring and
evaluation system and the reformulation of monitoring indicators that were relevant to the project's
implementation. During supervision of the project, the Bank emphasized the identification of lessons
learned overtime and applied the lessons from the project to the preparation of a new project that continues
to support the reform agenda.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly Satisfactory. The government was very active in the preparation of the project. Through
activities financed by the CCSS and the Japanese Grant, detailed preparation work was carried out to
prepare the CCSS for rapid deployment of the PHC model and other key issues identified during
preparation. The borrower also took a proactive approach to building consensus among key stakeholder,
prior to project implementation, which allowed the project to rapidly launch key activities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Strong government commitment to the project objectives was key for implementation
success. The government gave high political visibility to the reform process and maintained its goals as
priorities in the political agenda from 1994 to 2002. The Borrower assumed the project in payment of its
internal debt to the CCSS. It satisfactorily reduced is overall debt to the CCSS over the life of the project.
Evasion in Government contributions to the CCSS as employer and as responsible party of contributions
for the indigent was drastically reduced during project life (see Annex 8). Two aspects under government
control influenced implementation pace: there were difficulties in the availability of counterpart funding in
the case of the INCIENSA and delays in procurement processes were present when applying both national



                                                      - 21 -

and Bank regulations to project implementation. (Section 5.2). The cumbersome national bidding process
thatch forced the PCU to follow both national and Bank procurement guidelines slowed the process
considerably. In this regard, the Contraloría General de la República did little to facilitate the bidding
process. Second, having two implementing agencies complicated project management; especially when one
is more dependent on the National Budget than the other.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly Satisfactory. The CCSS and the MOH demonstrated high commitment to the reform from the
design of the operation through implementation. The PCU developed an excellent capacity to manage the
Bank financed project and to promote the institutionalization of the reforms. For a brief period in 1998, as
the administration and PCU staff changed with the changing administration, the PCU experienced a
considerable slow down in execution and limited capacity to attain the momentum the reforms had achieved
from 1996 to 1998. This resulted in an "unsatisfactory" rating. Once the new team understood the reform
process and Bank procedures, the reform process resumed its previous rhythm and the project returned to a
satisfactory rating. A highlight of the reform process is that most of the key initiatives financed by the
project have been fully assumed by the CCSS line departments. This speaks to the work of the PCU in
developing excellent coordination with the CCSS departments and in taking an unselfish approach to
facilitating the reform's implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Highly Satisfactory. The government accepted the challenge of implementing a complex reform process
and maintained the reform path over four different administrations. As an addition indication of borrower
performance, the CCSS was able to finance with its own resources the consistent implementation of reform
initiatives, even as Bank disbursements declined in 1998 and 1999.

8. Lessons Learned

This section is divided into three parts. A more general part addressing project design and implementation
issues is followed by a discussion of lessons learned organized according to the main strategies of the
reform process: (1) overall comments on project design and implementation; (2) issues related to the
separation of functions, resource allocation and reimbursement mechanisms (including DRGs); and (3) the
redefined primary health care model. While this is not an intensive learning ICR, the preparation process
has considered extensive stakeholder analysis based on the results of a qualitative and quantitative
evaluation of the project. On the qualitative side, an external consultant was contracted to carry out more
than 30 interviews with key stakeholders, organized in five modules These interviews provide an in-depth
view into the projects objectives and outcomes. This was complemented with an in-depth review of the
project objectives, activities and outcomes, in the context of a logical framework that substantiated many of
the ICR findings regarding project implementation. Following approval of the ICR, the Bank will hold a
workshop with the CCSS to discuss the ICR findings and the lessons learned.

Part One.

Project design and implementation

8.1 There are minimum necessary preconditions for a successful health sector reform project. These
are: i) a multi-party political agreement in favor of the reform process within a general political
context that regards change and reform as a mean for progress; ii) the existence of sound sector
studies that have induced in the leading technical team a strong sense of the need for reform and have
led to the development of a sound project concept, complemented with external financing; and, iii) a
strong communication campaign to build and maintain national consensus. Under these conditions the
project creates strong positive expectations in key players at the start of the reform process. Politicians will



                                                     - 22 -

speak out publicly in favor of the reform and the clarity of objectives and targets constitute the best basis
for communicating reform benefits to a broader public. External financing gives the feeling of security both
because of its implicit technical backing of the reform design and the financial sustainability it is
conferring. Additionally, the Bank usually acts as a catalyst to bring together different political actors
around a technical proposition and accelerates the process of project building. In general, these conditions
are likely to produce a strong positive momentum for reform which is essential at the initial stage.

8.2 A reform project should be understood as one of the instruments supporting changes in the
sector, where the achievement of goals and objectives is enabled or impeded by a complex interaction
among political, social and economic factors. Project success is strongly dependent on the strategic use
of such combination of factors both at design and during implementation. There were key policy decisions
that enabled the achievement of project goals: i) the CCSS decided not to carry out pilots and to launch
reform processes at the national level instead, in order to reach the "point of no return" rather than risking a
pilot project that could be overturned; ii) after creating the information system for the collection of
contributions SICERE, the "Ley de Protección al Trabajador" was designed and passed which not only
accelerated the implementation of the system, but enabled the CCSS to enhance the benefits offered by
accessing to compiled and updated information for evasion reduction; iii) the design of the reform project
strategically linked CCSS and MOF interests to support the reform endeavor. With the project not only the
MOF was reducing its debt with the CCSS but the latter was receiving the technical support its reform
agenda required.

8.3 Reform processes should identify "early wins" that will provide buy in and political capital to
make more difficult structural changes down the road. CCSS leadership identified early on one key
aspect, the extension of the PHC model, that would be of direct interest and impact to the common person
in Costa Rica and would strongly influence public opinion of the policies to be implemented. Visible
results on access to health care services and impact on health status could be achieved through an
aggressive approach to the implementation of the redefined PHC model in combination with a strong
communication campaign at all levels. The strategic decision to start implementation of the PHC model in
the poorest cantons and to develop management agreements with those providers that represented more than
55 percent of all expenditures were critical to achieving early success with political commitment.

8.4 Reform processes are costly endeavors and both the Bank and the client should not address
timidly the estimation of such costs. To ensure the financial sustainability of a reform, it is necessary
to make accurate cost projections for those components that represent a large fraction of total project
budget as well as for transitional costs in those areas where the reform process results on, at least at
the beginning, a serious cost escalation. Project cost estimation of introducing the redefined primary
health care model was $16 million, but the incremental salary of new staff alone required $36.6 million
(Section 4.2-component 2). Part of the reason for this cost increase is an underestimation of the required
size of the primary health care network capable of responding to an increasing demand for services induced
in part from the benefits of the reform process. Estimations at appraisal foresaw 800 EBAIS in 74 Health
Areas, or a ratio of 5000 persons per EBAIS, whereas by 2002, 819 EBAIS have been established in 94
Health Areas for a ratio of 4200 persons per EBAIS. In this case the CCSS was fortunate to be in a
financial position to take over this unexpected cost increase, but in countries under different circumstances
an error of this magnitude may disrupt completely the reform project and create a more costly situation for
the sector than that before the project.

8.5 To measure the impact and outcome of each activity of the reform project, it is not enough to
define monitoring and performance indicators at appraisal. The project must create a system capable
of providing and analyzing such information regularly so it can be evaluated throughout the
implementation period. Collecting and analyzing baseline data for this purpose must be part of project
design. Of the 30 activities that were identified in the SAR, only 14 could be assigned performance


                                                       - 23 -

indicators and 2 activities had at least one indicator that could be evaluated with available data.
Fortunately, there is a lot of information collected in Costa Rica that enabled us to gather results of the
reform process from different sources and complement information obtained through the interview process.


8.6 Project design should maintain an internal equilibrium between different beneficiaries of the
reform and the timing of benefits. In order to maintain the support for the reform process it is important
to avoid great disparities in the benefits among the different groups directly involved in the reform, for
example management, health staff, hospital personnel, primary care level personnel, etc. In an analogous
way, it is very helpful to maintain reform momentum if the first benefits become evident shortly after the
process has begun and continue to be felt more or less evenly distributed over the entire implementation
period (see also section 8.3).

8.7 The implementation unit of a project should be adequately staffed and prepared to successfully
deal with several political challenges, such as eroding political support. As sector projects usually
extend over several government administrations and priorities change over time, internal resistance
from groups that lose power and influence, are misinformed or simply oppose change, can result in
general apathy towards the project if benefits do not become evident fast enough. There are several
strategies that can be followed to overcome these situations. First, the Bank is a key player as it acts as an
external coordinator, guiding the process by contributing high quality consultants, creating areas of
discussion that are important for the continuing effort of consensus building, defining methodologies and
courses of action, and financing usually the larger part of project costs. The loan contract provides
continuity to the project, as it obliges changing governments, and with them changing key actors, to comply
with contract terms. Additionally, the Bank takes over the supervision and reviews the auditing of the
project. The Bank should use this leading role to maintain project schedules and Bank procedures, and
although a sensitive aspect, the Bank should enforce strong leadership on the creation of adequate PCUs at
all times. The potential of the Bank to guide the general reform course must be exploited in a consistent and
permanent manner respecting a delicate equilibrium between national ownership of the process and Bank's
guidance. Third, constant communication is critical during the reform process. It reduces internal resistance
as targets become clear and effects foreseeable. Fourth, strict timetables to implement each activity of the
reform and the complementary information campaign can effectively reduce uncertainty and combat general
apathy that inevitably arises as reform is implemented. Fifth, consensus building between key players from
the civil society, sector labor unions and politicians is a continuing process that should be carefully
attended at all stages of the reform process.

8.8 Depending on the specific characteristics of the sector in the country in question, Bank support to
a reform process might be more effective when designed as an investment operation at the beginning
of the process to set up the necessary conditions to enable policy implementation, followed by
disbursements of resources linked to the achievement of specific goals through policy change.

Part Two

Separation of functions

8.9 A balanced depth and parallel pace of required legal changes and necessary technical
developments should be always maintained in a reform process. When a specific role is to be assigned
to an institution in a health sector reform program, it is not enough to secure the legal changes--equal
emphasis has to be placed on the technical implementation of the reforms. As an example and in retrospect,
the design of organizational changes was initially viewed as a process that was independent of the pace of
decentralization to CCSS providers. The original project design did not include the approval of a law on
decentralization or any other legal changes. As it became clear that the decentralization process would
require a longer implementation period, the expectations regarding the implementation of organizational


                                                      - 24 -

changes should have also been delayed. Another example is the design of the separation of functions
between the CCSS and the MOH. There were no effective mechanisms proposed in the project to put the
MOH in a material position to be able to fulfill its assigned policy-making role in the health sector. Project
design should have taken into account that it is necessary to put in place a transitional period that requires
financing during project life and that the transformation process of the MOH's role takes much longer than
expected. The project was dependent on reforms in the MOH which were to be supported by the IDB
project and the lack of integration produced discordant results in terms of the pace and depth of reform.

8.10 Institutional reform and development should be tackled with a combination of mechanisms to
induce change and should not be misunderstood with activities to enhance human resource capacity to
perform within the rigidities of the existing institutional structure. Project design and implementation
should approach institutional reform and development almost as an underlying base of all reform aspects
but not as a separate project component runs the risk of strengthening an existing set of institutional
processes and relationships not compatible with the reform strategies and goals.

8.11 The reform process cannot afford to overlook the power exercised by the appropriate incentive
mechanisms in the production of institutional change. A lot can be done if the power of resource
reallocation is recognized, often greater and faster than what the implementation of the traditional activities
such as human resource training and the development of an institutional reform blueprint can accomplish.

8.12 The implementation of activities supporting the separation of financing and delivery of services
need to be revised when facing vertical integration as in the case of the CCSS. A "bottom up"
approach introducing management contracts and changing the institutional culture is necessary but not
sufficient; strong political will and support must be exercised at all times from both within and outside the
institution to overcome opposition from interest groups and to manage the power of labor unions. In this
sense the predominant approach followed until now in Costa Rica could be accompanied by "top down"
interventions where fundamental change is introduced by defining new institutional structures and clear
new functions and responsibilities to be exercised accompanied by appropriate reimbursement policies.

8.13 Strong leadership should be exercised when reform momentum slows. The separation of
functions and decentralization has made considerable progress, as part of a gradual implementation
process, but major political decisions regarding reorganization of the central CCSS structure have been
delayed. Lack of political will and leadership to control the well-identified interest groups opposing the
reform process from within the CCSS is the critical reason for this situation. This situation must be
reversed if current benefits are to be sustainable and pending issues need to be concluded successfully.

8.14 Clearly defined functions and processes are needed for a swift and smooth decentralization of
functions. There exists confusion in the health care vice presidency about the role that is to be played at the
central and the regional levels. Functions currently being reassigned to the regional level include the
evaluation of the service contracts or "compromisos de gestión" as well as the assignment of financial
resources to service providers; clearly, having both functions in the same hands reverses the established
separation of purchasing and provision of health care service delivery. The lack of clarity has been a
major obstacle to further development of a redesigned organizational structure.

8.15 In order for the separation of functions to promote real efficiency gains, change must be made in
the payment mechanism to health care providers. While important changes were introduced through the
Decentralization Law and the management agreements, the failure to link provider payments with
performance has been a limiting factor in the reforms. Part of this limitation is reflected in the project's
limited impact on waiting lists and the persistent inefficiency in the hospital network. Because of these
shortcomings (a) the separation of the purchasing and the provision function has not transferred sufficient
risk to CCSS providers and CCSS hospital managers do not assume risk or reward for the performance of
the hospitals, or business units within hospitals; (b) there is no effective competition among health care


                                                      - 25 -

providers, as the insured population is not allowed to change the assigned provider and those providers
whose production level is not sufficient to maintain sustainability are bailed out by the CCSS. Moreover,
the bulk of service provision is purchased from within the CCSS network only; and (c) if the evaluation of
service contracts with providers specify economic incentives according to compliance with indicators based
on institutional goals, the appropriate information system to generate such indicators must be in place and
fully operational to support the implementation of contracts.

8.16 The implementation of the DRGs is a complex, highly technical issue that must be accompanied
by concomitant changes in financing and information systems and cannot overlook the design of a
strong and aggressive strategy for its introduction to potential users. While the project successfully
implemented DRGs as tool for clinical management, the effectiveness of the instrument was limited by a
number of conditions. First, the supporting hospital information system was not adequately maintained
throughout the test period. Second, DRGs are regarded as complicated, not understandable, and difficult to
use, indicating that training quality was poor or insufficient. Third, the software was imported from the
USA and adapted with Spanish modules; insufficient efforts were made to explain to health staff how the
system would be adapted to the reality of Costa Rican hospitals and how the DRGs could be interpreted
with CCSS data. Fourth, the introduction and pilot-test of DRGs was regarded as low priority by the
CCSS according to interviewees. These perceptions have a negative effect on users. Fifth, DRGs were
never integrated with the hospital management system and continues to be a challenge. As a consequence,
they are not yet perceived as part of an integral hospital management solution. They should be included as
an instrument for decision making in all management training programs and as a powerful mechanism to
allocate financial resources. In conclusion, as one interviewee put it, "they became one more system we had
to fill out, one of the thousand forms we are obliged to fill out".

Part Three

Redefining the primary health care model

8.17 In the context of project financing, it is beneficial for the implementation of the new PHC-model
to comprehensively pilot-test before embarking on full-scale implementation. Fortunately, the CCSS
was able to allocate additional resources to overcome the lack of planning reflected by the national
implementation without pilot testing. Several difficulties arose during the process of implementation: (1)
incremental salary costs were grossly underestimated as the insured population attended by an EBAIS was
reduced from 5000 to approximately 4200 persons. The estimated incremental salary costs increased six
times (from US$5.8 million to $36.6 million), total project cost doubled from $32 million at appraisal to
$65 million of actual expenditure and under less benevolent circumstances, this change alone could have
meant the abrupt termination of the project (see also section 8.2); (2) retraining of health personnel of the
primary care level turned out to be slower than expected; (3) The redefinition of the primary level has direct
consequences on the demand of services of the secondary and tertiary levels, both in terms of a varying
service mix and in quantitative terms. These issues have to be carefully addressed to prevent stressing
ad-hoc adjustments especially at the secondary level; (4) The mechanism that effectively coordinates all
three service levels is the referral/counterreferral system. This system must be tested and operating
simultaneously with the introduction of the new PHC-model; (5) The redefined PHC-model includes an
Information System to adequately monitor and evaluate health services, the equipment necessary to provide
the assigned services, and the complementary administrative capacity at each health area. Once the optimal
PHC-package is defined and tested, it should be implemented altogether as only the combination of its
elements guarantee the expected results.

8.18 The implementation of the PHC-model does not ensure cost-reduction if certain additional
measures are not taken simultaneously. Two additional measures could be identified as being necessary
for the PHC-model to produce positive efficiency effects. First, the entry to the health service network must



                                                      - 26 -

be restricted to the primary service level, with the exception of emergency cases. While the increased
capacity at the PHC level has reduced unnecessary hospitalization, many patients continue to go directly to
hospitals for care and use emergency services as a `back door' into the system. Second, transparent and
clear regulations for the participation of private providers are essential to introduce competition and to
thereby effectively foster efficiency in the provision of primary health services. This measure, though
included in the project design, was not implemented for unknown reasons.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Al concluir una década de haber iniciado el proceso de transformación del sector y de
modernización de la Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social, con el apoyo financiero y técnico del
Banco Mundial, me complace saber que hoy mantenemos firmemente los mismos principios de
dirección, cambio y de esta manera conservar las conquistas en materia de salud y seguridad
social alcanzadas por nuestro país desde finales del siglo XX.

En virtud de lo anterior y dada la importancia que representa el Informe de Cierre, hemos
considerado pertinente llevar a cabo una revisión profunda del mismo y confiamos que nuestras
observaciones contribuyan hacia el enriquecimiento del documento que ha preparado el Banco.

Además de las referencias de evaluaciones citadas en el documento es importante destacar que
existen dos importantes informes de evaluación sobre el cumplimiento de metas, objetivos,
avances y limitaciones del proceso de reforma del sector salud, que representan fuentes
adicionales de referencia y podrían contribuir a robustecer esta sección. Estos son: "Panorama de
la Reforma del Sector Salud", 1999, elaborado por la Contraloría General de República de Costa
Rica y segundo, "VIII Informe del Estado de la Nación", 2002.

En relación con el área de fortalecimiento institucional, se debe destacar la implementación de
las juntas de salud y el fortalecimiento del proceso de planificación institucional, con el diseño y
elaboración del primer Plan de Atención a la Salud de las Personas (PASP), cuyo aporte central
recae en la búsqueda de valor en la inversión en salud mediante la priorización de 19 grupos de
problemas de salud, 3 problemas de servicios, 29 intervenciones y 138 metas de reducción del
riesgo y de mejora de la oferta de servicios, de formación y capacitación del recurso humano y de
necesidades de información e investigación.

También se desarrolló el diseño e implementación de la plataforma tecnológica por medio del
Sistema Básico de Gestión de Suministros de la CCSS (actividad financiada con recursos del
Proyecto). El mismo permitirá que los procesos de planificación, compras, licitaciones y
almacenes se encuentren interconectados y actúen en forma interdependiente e interrelacionada
para contar con información ágil y oportuna en el proceso de abastecimiento de los artículos con
economías de escala.

En relación con los Grupos Relacionados al Diagnóstico, es importante notar que el Proyecto de
Modernización de la CCSS, ha llevado adelante diversos proyectos encaminados a incorporar
nuevas formas organizativas y de gestión en los hospitales, siempre orientados a mejorar la
calidad y eficiencia de los servicios. Todos estos esfuerzos resultarían incompletos sin
instrumentos de mejora del conocimiento que permitan avanzar en el proceso de toma de


                                                      - 27 -

decisiones sobre datos objetivos. Este es el objetivo del Proyecto de Implantación de un Sistema
de Información por Producto y basada en los GDR.

La Caja dispone desde hace décadas de datos clínicos de cada paciente hospitalizado, lo que nos
ha colocado de hecho en una posición de avanzada respecto a muchos países de nuestro entorno e
incluso a países más desarrollados. El gran esfuerzo de recolección y procedimiento de datos en la
Caja, es el que ha permitido incorporar de forma fácil, instrumentos de medida de la actividad de
los hospitales en términos clínicos.

La aparición de Sistemas de Clasificación de Pacientes como expresión de la actividad
desarrollada por los hospitales, constituye un cambio muy importante para la información, al
permitir referir los indicadores a tipologías específicas de las patologías hospitalarias. Los GDRs
han adquirido además una amplia difusión internacional, abriendo todo un mundo de posibilidades
de contraste de la información hospitalaria.

Desde el inicio del Proyecto en 1997, se han obtenido ya logros importantes disponiendo de toda
la información de hospitalización por GDR desde la década de los 90. Esta información se
produce además puntualmente en la Unidad de Estadísticas Biomédicas desde 1998 y algunos
hospitales de la CCSS disponen también, de los medios para analizar su actividad mediante GDR.

La principal aportación de los GDR es mejorar el conocimiento, la calidad y la eficiencia
hospitalaria basándose, por primera vez, en los pacientes tratados que constituye la finalidad de
los hospitales.

En relación con la implantación del proyecto, quisiéramos señalar los siguientes puntos:

La unificación de esfuerzos entre el Proyecto de Modernización y la Gerencia de Modernización y
Desarrollo, responde a la necesidad de garantizar la sostenibilidad de las innovaciones generadas
dentro del marco de la reforma, estableciendo una vía efectiva y eficaz de transferencia de
conocimientos al ámbito institucional. En ese momento, no se había estudiado ni visualizado la
necesidad de un segundo préstamo con el apoyo del Banco Mundial.

Sería importante, en evaluaciones futuras, analizar la posibilidad de incorporar las percepciones de
los usuarios internos y externos en el análisis de resultado e impacto de los programas y
actividades realizadas con los recursos del Proyecto.

Asimismo, es importante mencionar un aspecto muy positivo, referente a que durante la ejecución
del Proyecto no se evidenciaron huelgas, paros o mayor resistencia laboral a las propuestas y
ejecución de las reformas estructurales y modernización institucional. (En presencia de 29
sindicatos a lo interno de la CCSS).

Finalmente, consideramos que en el anexo 6, al pie de página, se debe incluir una definición de los
criterios de evaluación de desempeño, a saber: altamente satisfactorio, satisfactorio,
insatisfactorio y altamente insatisfactorio, por cuanto es importante que todos los lectores
nacionales e internacionales del documento de Informe de Cierre, logren efectuar comparaciones



                                                 - 28 -

con otros préstamos, tanto para el mismo país, como con otros préstamos con financiamiento
externo.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

Bank Team
María Luisa Escobar (Lead Health Economist, ICR Task Leader)
James Cercone (Health Economist and Health Policy Analyst)
Vilma Ibarra (Journalist)
Stefan Brunner (Economist)
Sonia Levere (Language Program Assistant)

Counterpart Team
Norma Montero
Juan Carlos Sánchez
Carlos Montoya
Claudio Arce
Giovanni Márquez
Geovanna Rojas

Comments provided from:
Evangeline Javier
Susana Augusto
Helena Ribe
Helen Saxenian




                                                  - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. EBAIS HQs with proper cold chain            98%                              100%
maintenance
2. Discharged after delivery, with > 3 penatal 90%                              83%
visits
3. Women 45-65 yrs. hospitalized who had       80%                              25%
VC past two years
4. Hypertensive population, under care         75%                              75%
5. EBAIS with medical equip. in good           100%                             95%
conditions
6. Patients > 15 yrs with record of blood      100%                             98%
pressure measurement in last consultation
7. Patients satisfied with care received for   80%                              80%
hypertension
8. Diabetic patrients in area, under medical   75%                              65%
control
9. Patients satisfied with the care received   80%                              86%
10. Patients with MI, who sere seen in         10% max                          N/A
outpatient services for symptoms and not
diagnosed correctly at first contact
11. EBAIS physicians that received             80%                              100%
cardio-pulmonary (CPR) resuscitation
courses in last 5 years
12. EBAIS with adequate basic equipment        100%                             N/A
for primary care of MI


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
STRENGTHENING THE CCS

1.Design structure, functions, norms and       100%                             100%
procedures for the three Complexes
Review action plan and timetable
Approval by CCSS Board of Directors
Implement new structure and develop
operational norms (% of annual targets)
2.Management Information System (MIS)          100%
·Prepare TORs, select consultants for study,                                    100%
prepare procurement documents
·Design the MIS for each module                                                 70%
·Prepare and review action plan                                                 70%
·Implement action plan (% of annual targets)                                    0%
3. Develop training program for managers,
central and regional staff
No. of Courses                                 2                                100%
No. of Participants                            60                               100%


REDEFINED PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
MODEL

1. Design pilot plan in Huetar Norte           100%                             100%
Review pilot plan
Implementation (% of annual targets)
Transfer of staff (% of annual targets)
2. Transfer facilities and personal from MOH 12/31/95 end 100%                  100%
and implement EBAIS in Central Norte,
Central Sur, Huetar Atlántica
Implementation (% of annual targets)




                                                             - 30 -

3. Implement Quality Assurance system in       10/30/94                100%
Central Norte, Central Sur, Huetar Atlántica
4. Transfer facilities and personal from MOH 12/31-96 end 100%         100%
and implement EBAIS in Chorotega, Pacífico
Central, Brunca Implementation (% of annual
targets)
5. Implement Quality Assurance system in       10/30/95                100%
Chorotega, Pacífico Central, Brunca
6. Prepare work annual plan and budgets for 07/31/98                   100%
regions
7. Carry out training of EBAIS and             100%                    |00%
supervisors
No. of health professionals
No. of auxiliary staff
No. of new auxiliary staff
RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND PILOT
TESTING OF ALTERNATIVE
COMPONENT
- Redesign financing model                                             100%
- Normalized collection of CCSS premiums                               100%
- Improved administration of financial                                 100%
resources
- Improved resource allocation                                         100%
- Development of unit cost and economic                                60%
evaluation of medical procedures
- Evasion reductions                           50%                     N/A
- Health coverage for salaried workers         95%                     88%
- Health coverage for independent workers      95%                     25%
- Recruitment of senior consultant firm for                            100%
MIS
- MIS testing in                                                       100%
a. health area
b. one region
- All areas                                                            50%
INCIENSA

- Feasibility study                                                    100%
- Activities                                                           100%
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION

1. Selection of six professionals to staff the 100%                    100%
PCU
2. Develop Standard Bidding Documents and 100%                         100%
contracts for civil works, goods, and
consultants
3. Progress in project implementation          100%                    100%
measured accounting to approved annual
work plan targets and budgets (% of annual
targets)
4. Loan distributed according to approved      100%                    100%
work plans and budgets (% of annual targets)
5. Consultants contracted according to         100%                    100%
scheduled studies and technical assistance
(% of annual targets)
6. Procure equipment                           100%                    100%

1End of project




                                                             - 31 -

Annex 1.b Matrix of Objectives and Outcomes by Component

Objective - Outcome Matrix by Component
Component General        No.            Specific Objectives           General Outcome
Objective
I. CCSS Institutional    1 Reorganization of CCSS into four units:    · All pension management was separated from the health
Development                 Policy Level (Board of Directors and        and disability insurance and cross-subsidization from the
                            Executive President), Health Care           pensions vice presidency to the health vice presidency was
Assisting the CCSS in       Complex, Pensions Complex and Financial     eliminated.
implementing                Mgt. Complex.
institutional reforms at 2 Decentralization of functions of the Health· The separation of functions between the CCSS (financing
the central level and in    Care (7 regional offices), Pensions and     and provision) and the MoH (stewardship and regulation)
strengthening the           Financing complexes.                        was effectively accomplished, thus eliminating the costly
support systems and the  3 Introduction of a Management Information     duplicity in personnel and infrastructure. .
decentralization process    System (MIS)
                         4 Human Resource Development to              · The separation of the financing and health delivery
                            implement reform including senior and       functions initiated with introduction of more than 130
                            middle management and service delivery      management contracts between CCSS and provider
                            staff (MIS, planning, procurement,          network.
                            personnel administration, and others).
                         5 Manpower Planning Includes personnel       · Law on Decentralization approved in 1998.
                            policies, decentralization, norms &
                            procedures, staffing patterns, personnel  · By 2002, 34 (of 133 total) providers operating under
                            incentives, civil service.                  decentralized framework.
                         6 Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies
                            System                                    · MIS to manage pharmaceutical procurement and inventory
                         7 Rational use of medicines: brand selection,  developed and implemented.
                            correct dosage and adequate
                            communication to patients for its use     · UCR study on contracting human resources.

                                                                      · The project trained 232 administrative staff and 14,888
                                                                        course and seminar participants. As a percentage of all
                                                                        management staff, it is estimated that roughly 60 percent
                                                                        of all CCSS management received training under the
                                                                        Project

                                                                      · Five master programs implemented in Health Economics,
                                                                        Public Health Management, Epidemiology, Public Health,
                                                                        and Health Service Management.




                                                           - 32 -

Component General          No.          Specific Objectives          General Outcome
Objective
II. Redefined Primary      8  Introduction of integrated (preventive  · Coverage was assured by creating 102 Health Areas in the
Health Care Model,            and curative) health care packages for    country's territory (98 are already installed or 96%), each of
Quality Assurance             children, adolescents, adult,             which comprises around ten to fourteen basic medical units
System, & Hospital Study      elderly,and women.                        called EBAIS.
                           9  Continuity of service providers
Supporting the             10 Introduction of epidemiological         · In total 818 EBAIS have been established covering 88% of
implementation of a           surveillance                              the country's population. Medical equipment was acquired
redefined model of primary 11 Enforcement of referrals                  and new personnel was hired to implement the new
health care services which 12 Support from community organizations      PHC-model.
would be based on national 13 Efficient PHC provision
priority health care                                                  · Integrated health care packages for children, adolescents,
programs and, at the same  14 Establishment of 74 Health Areas and
                                                                        adults, elderly and women were introduced to directly
time, be responsive to        7 Regional Offices
                                                                        address national epidemiological priorities.
regional and local         15 Establishment of 800 EBAIS

epidemiological            16 Development of a Quality Assurance      · The process was accompanied by a shift of budgetary
conditions.                   System for PHC.
                           17 Survey of secondary and tertiary levels   allocations toward the primary health care level, increasing

                              defining functions, staffing,             its participation in health insurance expenditure from

                              procedures, control mechanisms,           around 15 pre-reform to around 23 percent post-reform.

                              financing alternatives and the role of
                              the private sector to achieve           · Quality assurance was included as part of the PHC model

                              cost-effectiveness and quality.           and introduced through performance indicators in the
                                                                        management contracts that are established with all Health
                                                                        Areas.




                                                         - 33 -

Component General                No.    Specific                                    General Outcomes
Objective                             Objectives
III. Resource Management        18 Strengthening of the incentives for cost     Resource allocation:
and Pilot Testing of                control and efficiency in health service    · Gains were made possible by the introduction of
Alternative Health Care             delivery                                     management agreements, entitled Compromisos de
Financing                       19 Introduction of a monitoring and evaluation   Gestion, between the Health Services Contracting
Strengthening the CCSS              information system of health services.       Department and the hospitals and health area
financial complex by                (MIS)                                        providers. In total, 133 contracts signed annually.
improving the resource          20 Review methods of cost calculation of        · Improvements in equity are evident at the primary
management, allocation and          health services                              care level as capitated payment mechanisms were
evaluation systems, reducing    21 Reduce evasion by improving the process       implemented in 1997.
evasions increasing                 of reporting earnings and collecting        · In hospitals a performance based payment system
contributory control of social      contributions, and increase affiliation      was introduced, based on the introduction of a unique
security premiums, and pilot    22 Analyze the feasibility of alternative        unit of hospital production--the UPH (Unidad de P
testing, with the expectation of    revenue sources for the CCSS health          roduccion Hospitalaria). This production unit
wider implementation, of            insurance fund                               allowed the CCSS to link production with payment
alternative models of health    23 Eliminate the outstanding Government          and replace the historical budget for hospitals with a
care financing and hospital         debt to the CCSS                             performance-based budget.
administration.
                                24 Evaluate existing alternative delivery and   · Improvements in efficiency are notable both in
                                    financial systems                            terms of the allocation between levels (primary level
                                No. Specific Objectives                          funds represented around 15 pre-reform to around 23
                                                                                 percent post-reform) and in the technical efficiency
                                                                                 with which the hospitals deliver services (average
                                 25 Review alternative health service delivery   length of stay decreased more than 10 percent and
                                    and financial models (fixed capitation       production of discharges and consultations increased
                                    transfers and DRG-related payments)          32 percent over the 96-02 period).
                                26 Pilot-test proposed alternative delivery and · Improvements made to the formulas for calculation
                                    financing systems                            of hospital costs for non-insured.
                                                                                Insurance revenue:
                                                                                · Centralization of all health and pension premium
                                                                                 collections through the development and deployment
                                                                                 of the universal revenue collection mechanism
                                                                                 SICERE (Sistema Centralizado de Recaudación) in
                                                                                 2000.
                                                                                · Short-term effect: estimated savings of US$6
                                                                                 million per year due to reduced process times.
                                                                                · Between 1993 and 2001, the average debt of
                                                                                 Government (estimated as the difference between
                                                                                 what the Government should pay and what is actually
                                                                                 sent to the CCSS) was reduced from over 65 percent
                                                                                 to just over 14 percent.
                                                                                · The project also managed to promote the
                                                                                 interchange of information between the CCSS, the
                                                                                 MOF and the National Insurance Institute (INS)
                                                                                 which triangulates reported income between the three
                                                                                 institutions and thereby allows inspectors to more
                                                                                 effectively target evasion.
                                                                                General Outcomes
                                                                                Pilot-testing of alternatives: Pilot testing was
                                                                                 substituted for full implementation of the proposed
                                                                                 measures.
                                                                                · Hospitals: DRGs implemented in 24 of 29
                                                                                 hospitals (all acute hospitals operating with DRGs).
                                                                                 The DRG implementation process was the first
                                                                                 country to fully implement DRGs in Latin America
                                                                                 and a significant learning experience was developed
                                                                                 in Costa Rica.
                                                                                · Produced significant reductions in average length



                                                          - 34 -

                                                                                   of stay, the number of outlier cases and improved bed
                                                                                   and patient management.
                                                                                 · CCSS hospitals no longer receive budgets based on
                                                                                   historical budgeting but rather based on production
                                                                                   and performance targets.
                                                                                 · Primary level: The provision of services under a
                                                                                   captitation payment mechanism has shown excellent
                                                                                   results in comparison with the traditional CCSS
                                                                                   model, indicating that the private sector can provide
                                                                                   the PHC package of service at a considerable
                                                                                   cost-saving in comparison to the traditional, public
                                                                                   model.
                                                                                 · At present, all health areas receive their annual
                                                                                   budget based on the total population, without risk
                                                                                   adjustment, eliminating the historical budgeting that
                                                                                   characterizes the pre-reform phase.
IV. National Health           27 Definition of INCIENSA´s functions,                 · The laboratory facilities for infectious diseases
Surveillance and Quality         organizational structure, staffing pattern, priority   and febrile and hemorrhagic diseases were
Control Laboratory               programs, and its relationship with MOH                rehabilitated
Designing and implementing    28 Identification of current research, teaching and    · An integrated information system was
feasibility studies for the      community activities which would be transferred        developed and implemented facilitating
development of a National        to the University of Costa Rica or other               INCIENSA's management of critical information
Surveillance and Quality         institutions.                                       · INCIENSA staff received considerable training
Control Laboratory.           29 Improvement of cost-recovery mechanisms that           and technical assistance which improved the
                                 allow INCIENSA to retain resources obtained            technical capacity of the staff.
                                 from service fees.
                              30 Rehabilitation of laboratories




                                                        - 35 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Institutional Strengthening                                  9.10            3.68           40.43
Redefined Model of Primary Health Care                      17.30          49.95           288.71
Resource Management & Pilot Testing of Alternatives          2.30            8.48           385.4
National Health Surveillance and Quality Control             1.00            0.98           89.89
Laboratory
Project Administration Unit                                  2.30            2.37          102.94

Total Baseline Cost                                         32.00          65.46
                          Total Project Costs               32.00          65.46
                   Total Financing Required                 32.00          65.46

Annex 2b.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            1.50         0.00         0.00          1.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.80)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.80)
2. Goods                            5.30            1.40         0.50         0.00          7.20
                                   (3.60)          (1.00)      (0.40)         (0.00)       (5.00)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        16.00         0.00         16.00
Studies & Technical                (0.00)          (0.00)      (15.30)        (0.00)      (15.30)
Assistance, PCU, Training
Programs, Fellowships
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.50         0.00          0.50
Printing of Training,              (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.50)         (0.00)       (0.50)
Materials and Manuals
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         1.00         0.00          1.00
Incremental Operating              (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.40)         (0.00)       (0.40)
Costs
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         5.80          5.80
Incremental Salaries for           (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
New Staff
   Total                            5.30            2.90        18.00         5.80         32.00
                                   (3.60)          (1.80)      (16.60)        (0.00)      (22.00)




                                                - 36 -

   Annex 2c.

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.40              0.00             0.00              0.40
                                           (0.00)             (0.20)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.20)
   2. Goods                                 5.70               3.70              0.70             0.00             10.10
                                           (3.90)             (1.40)            (0.50)            (0.00)           (5.80)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             17.00             0.00             17.00
   Studies & Technical                     (0.00)             (0.00)           (15.30)            (0.00)           (15.30)
   Assistance, PCU, Training
   Programs, Fellowships
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.10             0.00              0.10
   Printing of Training,                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
   Materials and Manuals
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              1.20             0.00              1.20
   Incremental Operating                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.20)
   Costs
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             36.60            36.60
   Incremental Salaries for                (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   New Staff
       Total                                5.70               4.10             19.00             36.60            65.40
                                           (3.90)             (1.60)           (16.10)            (0.00)           (21.60)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.


       Annex 2d.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
CCS Institutional Reform        4.60         4.50         9.10        3.20         0.50       3.70       69.6      11.1     40.7
& Development
Redefined PHC Model, QA        12.10         5.20        17.30        8.70         41.30     49.90       71.9     794.2    288.4
Resource Management &           1.50         0.70         2.20        7.60         0.90       8.50       506.7    128.6    386.4
Pilot Testing
Health Surveillance &           0.90         0.20         1.10        0.70         0.30       1.00       77.8     150.0     90.9
National Laboratory
Project Administration          2.00         0.30         2.30        1.40         0.90       2.40       70.0     300.0    104.3




                                                           - 37 -

Annex 2e. Project Cost by Expenditure Category



                       Reallocation (1)        Executed     Committed Available     Total
                                                                                    Available
INVESTMENT             IBRD   CCS      Total   BRD    CCS   IBR  CCS          CCS   $     %
COSTS                         S                       S     D    S    BIRF    S
A. Civil works         0.26   0.27     0.53   0.19    0.24  0.00 0.00 0.07    0.03  0.10  18%
B. Equipment
 1. Medical            5.82   3.80     9.62   5.79    3.72  0.00 0.00 0.03    0.08  0.11
Equipment
 2. Computer                  0.64     0.64   0.00    0.64  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.00  -
equipment                                                                           0.00
  Sub-total            5.82   4.44     10.26  5.79    4.36  0.00 0.00 0.03    0.08  0.10  1%
C. Technical
Assistance
 1. Local              4.41   0.45     4.86   4.36    0.46  0.00 0.00 0.05    -0.01 0.04
 2. Foreign            5.97   0.88     6.85   5.94    0.88  0.00 0.00 0.03    0.00  0.04
  Sub-total            10.38  1.33     11.71  10.30   1.33  0.00 0.00 0.08    0.00  0.07  1%
D. Studies             2.00   0.04     2.04   1.99    0.04  0.00 0.00 0.01    0.00  0.01  1%
E. Training
 1. Courses &          0.85   0.11     0.96   0.71    0.09  0.00 0.00         0.02  0.02
Seminars
 2. Fellowships        2.28   0.46     2.74   2.25    0.29  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.17  0.17
  Sub-total            3.13   0.57     3.70   2.96    0.383 0.00 0.00 0.00    0.18  0.18  5%
F. Printing material   0.11   0.00     0.11   0.09    0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.00  -     0%
                                                                                    0.00
G. Personnel           0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.00  0.00
Reassignments
TOTAL                  21.69  6.65     28.34  21.32   6.36  0.00 0.00 0.18    0.29  0.47  2%
INVERSION

RECURRENT
COSTS
A. Incremental Staff   0.00   18.37    18.37  0.00    18.37 0.00 0.00 0.00    0.00  0.00  0%
B. Salary              0.00   18.22    18.22  0.00    18.22 0.00 0.00 0.00    0.00  -     0%
Differentials                                                                       0.00
C. Material and fuel   0.08   0.07     0.15   0.06    0.06  0.00 0.00 0.02    0.01  0.03  17%
D. O & M costs
 1. Infrastructure     0.00   0.08     0.08   0.00    0.07  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.01  0.01
(O&M)
 2 Equipment (O&M)     0.01   0.01     0.02   0.01    0.01  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.00  0.00
  Sub-total            0.01   0.09     0.10   0.01    0.08  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.01  0.01
E. Subsistence and     0.02   0.06     0.08   0.01    0.06  0.00 0.00 0.00    0.00  0.00
Transportation
F. Other operating     0.20   0.73     0.93   0.16    0.73  0.00 0.00 0.04    0.00  0.04
costs
 RECURRENT             0.31   37.55    37.85  0.25    37.53 0.00 0.00 0.06    0.01  0.07  0%
TOTAL
TOTAL PROJECT          22.00  44.19    66.19  21.56   43.89 0.00 0.00 0.44    0.30  0.74  1%




                                               - 38 -

Annex 2f. Project Costs and Financing by Component and Disbursement Category (in US$ million equivalent)

 By component and disbursement category


 COMPONENT AND CATEGORY                                    TOTAL        TOTAL        Local       External
                                                            SAR       Investment

  INSTITUTIONAL STREGTHENING                                9,100,000    3,678,830     450,518    3,228,312
                    Civil works                                                  0           0            0
                    Equipment                                                    0           0            0
                    Consulting Services                                  3,002,788     272,690    2,730,097
                    Training and salaried employees                        493,927      75,159      418,768
                    Publications and manuals                                 3,434          64        3,370
                    Operating costs                                        178,682     102,606       76,076


  REDEFINED MODEL OF PRIMARY HEALTH CARE                   17,300,000   49,947,446  41,289,596    8,657,850
                    Civil works                                                  0           0            0
                    Equipment                                            9,909,835   4,271,068    5,638,766
                    Consulting services                                    918,247     131,206      787,041
                    Training and salaried employees                      2,395,489     252,663    2,142,826
                    Publications and Manuals                                43,767         854       42,913
                    Operating costs                                     36,680,109  36,633,805       46,304


  RESOURCE MANAGEMENT & PILOT TESTING OF                    2,300,000    8,478,746     918,508    7,560,238
 ALTERNATIVES
                    Civil works                                                  0           0            0
                    Equipment                                                    0           0            0
                    Consulting Services                                  8,033,158     822,081    7,211,077
                    Training and salaried employees                        359,700      43,912      315,789
                    Publications and manuals                                 8,230         162        8,068
                    Operating costs                                         77,657      52,353       25,304


  NATIONAL HEALTH SURVEILLANCE AND QUALITY                  1,000,000      988,764     308,312      680,452
 CONTROL LABORATORY
                    Civil works                                            433,295     239,692      193,603
                    Equipment                                              189,731      56,941      132,790
                    Consulting Services                                    324,850       7,748      317,102
                    Training and salaried employees                         40,888       3,932       36,956
                    Publications and manuals                                     0           0            0
                    Operating costs                                              0           0            0


  PROJECT ADMINISTRATIÓN UNIT                               2,300,000    2,367,580     927,318    1,440,262
                    Civil works                                                  0           0            0
                    Equipment                                               52,736      30,751       21,985
                    Consulting Services                                  1,383,701     141,033    1,242,668
                    Training and salaried employees                         49,037       7,304       41,733
                    Printing and manuals                                    32,418         217       32,201
                    Operating costs                                        849,688     748,013      101,675


 TOTAL                                                     32,000,000   65,461,366  43,894,252   21,567,114




                                                   - 39 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Análisis Costo-Beneficio del Proceso de Reforma en Salud

Resumen

El año 1994 marca el inicio de la reforma en el sector salud costarricense, cuyos objetivos
primordiales eran mejorar la equidad en el acceso, lograr la cobertura universal y establecer un
nuevo modelo de atención integral que vele por la salud del individuo, la familia y la comunidad.
Como parte de una réplica generalizada a nivel internacional, los diversos sectores sociales
alegaron que esta reforma no produciría resultados tangibles y mucho menos que llegaría a
beneficiar a los grupos más vulnerables. Este trabajo constituye un esfuerzo pionero en la
dirección contraria.

Por medio de la herramienta de análisis del Costo-Beneficio y realizando estimaciones muy
conservadoras de los beneficios asociados a la reforma, demostramos que las conclusiones de
aquellos sectores han sido erradas. La readecuación del modelo de atención, el fortalecimiento
del papel rector del Ministerio de Salud y la reorganización institucional de la Caja Costarricense
del Seguro Social han permitido generar beneficios económicos y sociales que superan con creces
las inversiones monetarias realizadas. El valor presente de los beneficios del proyecto suman más
que US$89 millones, superando la estimación inicial de US$41 millones de beneficios. Las cifras
más relevantes indican que el Valor Presente Neto (VPN) de los beneficios equivale a US$ 86
millones con una Tasa Interna de Retorno (TIR) de 69%.. Aún considerando todas las
inversiones del proceso de reforma, US$ 217 millones, los beneficios netos suman US$ 36
millones con una TIR de 36%. Los resultados del presente análisis revelan, sin lugar a duda, que
el proceso de reforma costarricense ha arrojado beneficios sustanciales para la sociedad y la
economía del país.

Introducción

Prácticamente todos los países de la región latinoamericana han ejecutado procesos de reforma en
sus sistemas de salud, desde inicios de la década del noventa. Costa Rica se unió a este conjunto
de países, al iniciar un proceso de reforma en salud en el año 1994, el cual, al igual que en otras
latitudes, tuvo diversos opositores. Las principales críticas al proceso tenían como origen la
asociación que algunos grupos hicieron entre el proceso de reforma y el concepto de privatización
de las instituciones de salud. El argumento que esgrimían estos grupos era precisamente que la
reforma a ejecutarse no produciría resultados tangibles y que el bienestar de la población
costarricense, finalmente, se vería perjudicado por las acciones que dicho proceso planteaba.

Aunque todavía hay retos pendientes de resolver dentro del sector, es claro que sí hubo beneficios
tangibles y que estos tuvieron como grupo meta a los usuarios de los servicios de salud y la
población en general. Indicadores generales de salud de la población costarricense demuestran
que Costa Rica se ubica a la vanguardia de la región latinoamericana en aspectos como su
esperanza de vida (77 años), sus tasas de mortalidad infantil (10.8 niños por cada por mil) y
cobertura de inmunización para las principales enfermedades prevenibles cercanas al 90%, entre
otros.


                                                - 40 -

Se han realizado diversas publicaciones en las que se muestran los beneficios del proceso de
reforma, medidas principalmente a través de indicadores de morbilidad, mortalidad, productividad
y gestión. Entre las más destacadas se encuentran algunas ponencias presentadas por la Caja
Costarricense del Seguro Social (CCSS) y algunos estudios independientes que plantean que los
beneficios en salud que goza Costa Rica son, en parte, consecuencia de las reformas
implementadas nueve años atrás. , El principal valor agregado de nuestro estudio es, desde esta
perspectiva, la cuantificación en términos monetarios de los beneficios asociados a la reforma en
salud y el establecimiento de la rentabilidad que este proyecto presentó durante el periodo
1997-2002.

La reforma efectuada se ha financiado por medio de préstamos adquiridos en el exterior,
provenientes de fuentes como el Banco Mundial (BM), Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
(BID), Banco Centroamericano de Integración Económica (BCIE), el Gobierno de España y un
último proyecto que se gestiona con el gobierno de Finlandia. Cerca de un 19% de la inversión
total corresponde al aporte local correspondiente a la CCSS. En el análisis se consideran tres
posibles escenarios de análisis, según los montos de los préstamos considerados.

En las siguientes secciones se exponen los aspectos conceptuales que permiten comprender a
cabalidad la utilidad del Análisis Costo - Beneficio, así como los supuestos establecidos para la
realización del presente análisis, la metodología de estimación de los beneficios y las principales
conclusiones que se desprenden del mismo.

Análisis Costo Beneficio

El Análisis Costo-Beneficio (ACB) se basa en un principio bastante sencillo: compara los
beneficios y los costos de un proyecto particular y, si los primeros exceden a los segundos,
permite contar con un criterio inicial para considerar su aceptabilidad. Los costos y beneficios del
proyecto se estiman considerando dos situaciones alternativas: sin proyecto versus con proyecto.
Para la comparación de dichas alternativas deben actualizarse los flujos de beneficios y costos en
un momento determinado en el tiempo, lo que se logra con la estimación de cifras a valor presente
o valor actual . Este último concepto hace referencia al hecho que el dinero tiene un valor en el
tiempo y que, tal y como la lógica lo indica, un colón recibido el día de hoy vale mucho más que
un colón que se obtenga dentro de cinco años. De esta forma al evaluar debe considerarse el
valor de los costos y los beneficios en forma atemporal, es decir en términos de valor presente.

Cuando se trabaja con proyectos de carácter social el ACB puede realizarse en forma ex - post, es
decir durante la implementación del proyecto o una vez que éste ya haya sido realizado. En estos
casos, el ACB es útil para decidir si se continúa con el desarrollo del proyecto o si es viable
realizar proyectos adicionales de este mismo tipo. Sin embargo, lo más común es utilizar el ACB
en forma ex ante, como una herramienta coadyuvante en la toma de decisiones acerca de la
realización o no de un proyecto determinado.

El establecimiento de los escenarios "con" y "sin" proyecto pretende comparar la proyección de
las tendencias presentes (escenario en el que no ocurre intervención alguna) con las tendencias



                                                - 41 -

que se producirían como resultado del proyecto. En el caso de la evaluación del proceso de
reforma en salud la situación "sin" proyecto implica la proyección de las tendencias en los
indicadores previstos tal y como hasta la fecha de inicio del proyecto se venía presentando (ceteris
paribus). La situación "con" proyecto está representada por la situación real recopilada por las
diversas estadísticas de salud.

Dos aspectos primordiales deben tenerse en cuenta al realizar un ACB. En primer lugar, un ACB
no es una herramienta contable, sino más bien una herramienta indispensable para la toma de
decisiones. En segundo lugar, la realización de un proyecto social, necesariamente implica un
costo de oportunidad para la sociedad; es decir, al ser los recursos escasos, su inversión en un
proyecto determinado implica que la sociedad renuncia a los beneficios que podrían haberse
obtenido en inversiones alternativas.

En el ACB que se realiza posteriormente no se contabilizan los costos y beneficios secundarios,
también llamados efectos indirectos o externalidades, que se producen como consecuencia del
proyecto, pero fuera del ámbito en que este se realiza y sin afectar a su población objetivo. Un
ejemplo de estos efectos indirectos lo constituye el caso de las vacunas. Cuando una persona se
vacuna contra la gripe, el beneficio directo que se contabiliza es el ahorro en medicinas para la
gripe, el salario que dejaría de percibir por no asistir al trabajo para recibir atención médica, etc.
Sin embargo, al vacunarse este individuo genera un beneficio adicional en el grupo de personas
que frecuenta, pues ellas tampoco se enfermarán, ni pagarán medicinas, entre otros beneficios.
Existen tres medidas básicas para la interpretación del ACB: Valor Actual Neto (VAN), Tasa
Interna de Retorno (TIR) y relación Beneficio Costo (BC).
l VAN
De acuerdo con el VAN un proyecto es rentable si el valor actual del flujo de beneficios es mayor
que el valor actual del flujo de inversión. En términos más formales un proyecto será rentable si
su VAN es mayor que cero y no será conveniente realizarlo si el VAN es menor que cero.
l TIR
La TIR es la tasa de descuento que convierte en cero el VAN del flujo de beneficios. El criterio
de decisión para la TIR implica realizar aquellos proyectos cuyas TIR sean mayores que la tasa de
interés que el capital pueda obtener en usos alternativos (costo de oportunidad). Por último la
relación BC se construye como el cociente entre el valor actual de los beneficios y el valor actual
de los costos.
l Relación BC
Si la relación BC es mayor que la unidad el proyecto es rentable. Una relación BC igual a la
unidad implica un VAN de cero y una BC menor de uno significaría que a la tasa de descuento
utilizada, el valor actual de los beneficios es menor que el valor actual de los costos, por lo que no
se estaría recuperando la inversión.

Una vez establecidas las bases teóricas del ACB procedemos a describir los principales supuestos
del análisis, de forma tal que los resultados posteriores sean interpretados desde dicha óptica.




                                                 - 42 -

Objetivos y acciones del proceso de reforma en salud

Existen dos tipos de factores que dieron origen al proceso de reforma en salud en Costa Rica.
Dentro del grupo que llamaremos aquí de factores endógenos, se encuentran los bajos niveles de
productividad de los servicios de salud frente a la creciente proporción de gastos en salud
realizados. Definitivamente, el tema de la eficiencia de los servicios de salud fue uno de los
principales aspectos incluidos en la reforma propuesta. Además, dentro de la composición por
niveles del sector salud, existía una alta inequidad, donde el nivel hospitalario consumía casi un
70% de los recursos del seguro de salud, relegando así la posibilidad de fortalecer el primer nivel
de atención. En última instancia, el tipo de asignación de los recursos, de forma histórica, impedía
considerar las características sociodemográficas y de morbilidad de las regiones.

Como parte de los factores exógenos que impulsaron el cambio se encuentran la transición
demográfica que Costa Rica enfrenta y que en el mediano plazo ensanchará la base de la pirámide
poblacional. Este futuro mayor porcentaje de personas de la tercera edad requerirán mayores y
más complejos servicios de salud, gastos que pueden prolongarse un largo periodo conforme se
incrementa la esperanza de vida de este grupo poblacional. La transición epidemiológica
constituye el otro factor exógeno, que caracterizará al país por enfermedades prevalentes en los
países industrializados.

Como respuesta a los retos que enfrentaba el sector salud, el Gobierno y la CCSS impulsaron un
proceso de reforma con seis objetivos específicos:

i)      Mejorar la equidad en el acceso a los servicios de salud
ii)     Ampliar la cobertura
iii)    Brindar mayor énfasis a la atención ambulatoria de tipo promocional y preventiva
iv)     Realizar cambios en la organización y gestión del sector salud
v)      Impulsar la descentralización y la participación social y comunitaria
vi)     Incrementar las funciones de conducción política y regulación del Ministerio de Salud así
como disminuir su responsabilidad directa como prestador de servicios.

El proceso de reforma en salud se financió con organismos internacionales (BM, BID, España y
Finlandia) así como recursos propios. Las acciones se concentraron en cuatro componentes
principales:

1.      Fortalecimiento de la función rectora del Ministerio de Salud, que incluye el desarrollo de
cuatro funciones estratégicas: (i) dirección, coordinación y conducción; (ii) vigilancia y
planificación de la salud; (iii) regulación, control y evaluación y; (iv) investigación y desarrollo
tecnológico.
2.      Readecuación del modelo de atención con la creación de más de 800 Equipos Básicos de
Atención Integral de la Salud (EBAIS) e inversiones importantes para mejorar la capacidad
resolutiva del primer nivel mientras que se ampliaba el acceso.
3.      Fortalecimiento institucional de la CCSS para acompañar los procesos de cambio en la
prestación de los servicios de salud que implica el nuevo modelo de atención integral e impulso a
la descentralización y la separación de funciones.
4.      Rediseño de los mecanismos de asignación de recursos para promover mayor equidad y
eficiencia en el sistema, vinculando recursos con desempeño.


                                                  - 43 -

Establecemos el ACB como el mecanismo para evaluar el impacto de las reformas mediante las
comparaciones entre beneficios y costos. En la siguiente sección se establecen los principales
supuestos que fueron utilizados en el ACB para comparar los beneficios con la inversión/costo del
proceso de reforma.

Supuestos del análisis

Debido a que el comportamiento de la realidad no es perfectamente replicable por medio de la
utilización de proyecciones y estimaciones, se hace necesario establecer claramente los supuestos
sobre los que se sustenta el ACB del proyecto de reforma del sector salud costarricense. Los
principales supuestos utilizados son conservadores y no incluyen otros beneficios no tangibles que
haya provocado la reforma:

l Todas las cifras están en unidades monetarias reales (colones o dólares) del año 2002, por lo
    tanto los resultados analizados están exentos del efecto inflacionario.
l Los beneficios directos están constituidos por la reducción en los siguientes indicadores: días
    paciente por servicio, tasas de hospitalización, tasa de infecciones intrahospitalarias, egresos
    para las siete principales causas de morbilidad hospitalaria evitables y tiempo de ejecución del
    proceso de facturación de la CCSS.
l Los beneficios indirectos están representados por el número de años de vida potenciales que el
    proyecto genera al reducirse las tasas de mortalidad infantil.
l Para la obtención de los beneficios directos e indirectos se asumen dos escenarios: sin reforma
    y con reforma. En el escenario sin reforma el comportamiento de las variables de interés se
    proyecta asumiendo una tasa de crecimiento similar a la que venía presentando desde inicios
    de la década de los noventa. El escenario con reforma está constituido por los valores
    realmente obtenidos y reportados en las estadísticas oficiales de la CCSS.
l Se utiliza una tasa de descuento del 10%.
l Horizonte temporal del análisis: 1995-2002.
l Los beneficios que se generan como consecuencia de las inversiones generadas por el
    proyecto empiezan a presentarse a partir del año 1997.
l Se establecen tres escenarios diferentes en función de las inversiones realizadas en cada uno
    de ellos: (1) Considera únicamente la inversión realizada por el BM y el aporte local; (2)
    inversión del BM, aporte local y BID, y (3) BM, aporte local, BID y España.
l Debido a que no todos los beneficios son fácilmente cuantificables el presente análisis no toma
    en cuenta todos los beneficios posibles. Los análisis económicos, que resultan en la
    valoración económica de la factibilidad de un proyecto pueden de esta forma subvaluar los
    beneficios resultantes.

Por la importancia que implica para el análisis, a continuación se detalla la metodología utilizada
para la contabilización de los beneficios en el escenario "sin" reforma.

Metodología para la estimación de los indicadores en el escenario sin reforma

La estimación de los valores correspondientes a los días paciente, hospitalizaciones e infecciones
intrahospitalarias, parte del cálculo de las tasas de crecimiento promedio en el periodo 1990-1995.



                                                 - 44 -

En algunos años las tasas de crecimiento estimadas indican reducciones en algunos indicadores, lo
que al compararse con las cifras reales producto de la reforma, indica que el comportamiento daba
indicios de mejora, con la reforma esto ocurrió a un ritmo mucho más acelerado. Este es un claro
indicador de una mejor gestión hospitalaria y de una gran efectividad del nuevo modelo de
atención integral.

El ACB distribuye los beneficios sobre el horizonte de vida del proyecto en dos grandes grupos:
beneficios directos e indirectos. Los beneficios directos son los beneficios que se obtienen por la
reducción en los siguientes indicadores:

l número de días paciente por servicio; como consecuencia de una mejor gestión en cada uno
   de los servicios hospitalarios y el consecuente traslado de casos hacia el primer nivel de
   atención.
l tasas de hospitalización; producto de una mejor atención en los primeres niveles de atención
   que reduce las hospitalizaciones innecesarias con el consecuente ahorro en costos.
l tasa de infecciones intrahospitalarias; frecuentemente se asocia a este indicador con la calidad
   de los servicios provistos por una institución de salud. La reducción en este caso se
   contabiliza como el número de días de hospitalización ahorrados más el costo de los
   medicamentos (antibióticos) provistos para aliviar dichas infecciones.
l número de egresos para las siete principales causas de morbilidad hospitalaria evitables
   (infecciones respiratorias agudas, enfermedad diarreica aguda, control del embarazo,
   hipertensión arterial, parasitosis intestinal, dermatosis y anemia); en un escenario bastante
   conservador se estima la reducción de egresos en siete de las principales causas de morbilidad
   hospitalaria, que producen un ahorro en costos derivado del menor número de estancias.
l reducción en el tiempo de ejecución del proceso de facturación de la CCSS a partir de la
   implantación del SICERE en el año 2001. La estimación se deriva de la siguiente
   metodología: En los años anteriores al año 2001, cuando entra en vigencia la Ley de
   Protección al Trabajador, la facturación de la planilla de un mes en particular se realizaba
   aproximadamente 25 días después de su presentación. Este tiempo se redujo a 14 días a partir
   de la implementación del SICERE. Esta reducción de tiempo puede valorarse en términos
   financieros, puesto que los recursos obtenidos en forma temprana pueden ser invertidos en el
   mercado financiero local (en su mayoría en títulos valores del sector público). Para dicha
   valoración se utiliza la tasa de interés promedio que reporta el Ministerio de Hacienda para los
   títulos públicos.
l Los beneficios indirectos del proyecto están relacionados con los años de vida potenciales que
   ahorra el proyecto y el valor financiero y económico de la mayor productividad alcanzada. La
   valoración económica de las vidas adicionales se realiza calculando el número de años de vida
   potenciales de cada niño ponderadas por el PIB per cápita costarricense y la tasa de
   participación en la fuerza laboral de acuerdo a cada rango de edad

Luego de haber definido los principales aspectos metodológicos presentamos los principales
resultados cuantitativos obtenidos en el ACB realizado.




                                                  - 45 -

Principales resultados

En esta sección se consideran tres aspectos esenciales. En primer lugar un análisis de los
beneficios obtenidos con el proceso de reforma. En segundo lugar se toman en cuenta los costos
de la reforma y finalmente, se presentan los resultados del ACB realizado.

Beneficios de la reforma

La reforma en salud es, en gran parte, responsable por el alto grado de desarrollo del sector salud.
Las ineficiencias que el sector presentaba y los problemas a los que se enfrentaba, fueron
atendidas en forma oportuna por medio de los cuatro componentes principales del proceso:
fortalecimiento de la función rectora del Ministerio de Salud, readecuación del modelo de
atención, fortalecimiento institucional de la CCSS y rediseño de los mecanismos de asignación de
los recursos en el sector. Los principales resultados que este proceso produjo en los indicadores
de salud que están siendo objeto de análisis se presentan a continuación:
1.    Como producto del surgimiento de un nuevo modelo de gestión de los hospitales y el
desarrollo efectivo de una red de atención en salud de primer nivel, la reforma en salud tuvo un
impacto significativo en la reducción del número de días paciente dentro de las instituciones
hospitalarias. Dicha reducción alcanzó una cifra cercana a los 130 mil días, con un beneficio
económico reportado de aproximadamente 16 millones de dólares.
2.    La reducción en el número de hospitalizaciones a nivel nacional (no solo por principales
causas de morbilidad evitable) refleja que la reforma fue capaz de producir un resultado favorable
en este indicador. Dichas tasas se redujeron de una cifra cercana al 10% en el año 1990 a una
cifra de 8.4% en el año 2002. Esta reducción generó un impacto beneficioso para la CCSS al
producirse un ahorro de aproximadamente 63 millones de dólares.
3.    La reforma en salud generó una reducción importante en las tasas de infección
intrahospitalaria. De una tasa inicial de 16% en el año 1993 se logra obtener una tasa que supera
escasamente el 5% en el año 2002. Estas reducciones generan un impacto positivo en la
reducción del número de días de estancia así como en el costo por medicamentos (antibióticos)
para tratar dichas infecciones. De este modo se estima que la reducción en los días de estancia
generó un ahorro de más de 38 mil millones de colones (109 millones de dólares) y la reducción
por no consumo de medicamentos alcanzó cifras de 3 mil millones de colones (es decir más de 8
millones de dólares)
4.    El impacto económico de la transformación del modelo de atención en salud indica que se
evitaron un total de 7,800 hospitalizaciones por causas susceptibles de ser tratadas en el primer
nivel de atención. Este ahorro en egresos representó más de 3 mil millones de colones en
términos reales (valor presente de más de 2 mil millones de colones), es decir una suma de 9
millones de dólares (6 millones en términos de valor presente).

En la Tabla 1 se presentan las reducciones en el número de egresos por categoría, así como el
ahorro en costos asociado.




                                                - 46 -

Tabla1: Reducción en el número de egresos según causas principales de morbilidad y costos
                                                   asociados

                                                                                         Ahorro
                  Reducción egresos          Cantidad     Ahorro colones Ahorro dólares
                                                               real          real        unitario
                                                                                        colones

           Infecciones respiratorias agudas    506          97,318,110     275,274       192,362
           Enfermedad diarreica aguda           -86         20,780,922      58,781      -240,267
           Control del Embarazo               1,926         251,512,277    711,429       130,559
           Hipertensión arterial               405          207,901,808    588,072       512,986
           Parasitosis intestinal              372          187,956,610    531,655       504,888
           Dermatosis                         2,198        1,196,280,266   3,383,803     544,356
           Anemia                             2,467        1,252,454,837   3,542,699     507,776
                          Total               7,788        3,214,204,829   9,091,713     412,736


Nota: Cifras en colones y dólares están en términos reales (2002=100)

El siguiente conjunto de gráficos pretende dar una idea más clara del impacto que la reforma en
salud ha generado a partir de la segunda mitad de la década de los noventa. Dicho
comportamiento se muestra para las siete causas de morbilidad hospitalaria consideradas en el
análisis, las cuales reflejan en mayor medida el fortalecimiento del primer nivel de atención
mediante el modelo de áreas de salud. En el panel de gráficos 2a-2g el área con rayas representa
el beneficio que la reforma ha generado en términos del número de egresos evitados.




                                                      - 47 -

Panel de Gráficos 2a-2g. Egresos según principales causas de morbilidad evitable




                                     - 48 -

Nota: El escenario "Sin Reforma" constituye una proyección con las tasas de crecimiento promedio registradas
durante los primeros años de la década de los noventa.



5.       La reducción en las tasas de mortalidad infantil, producto de la reforma, permitió evitar un
total de 919 muertes durante el periodo 1995-2002. Estas muertes evitadas representan una
ganancia de 27,500 años de vida ajustados por discapacidad (DALYs por sus siglas en inglés), los
que valorados en términos económicos arrojan un beneficio cercano a los 40 millones de dólares.
El comportamiento de ambas tasas (real y proyectada) se presenta en el Gráfico 1, a continuación.

Gráfico 1
Tasas de mortalidad infantil. 1990-2002


   16.0

   15.0

   14.0

   13.0

   12.0

   11.0

   10.0

    9.0

    8.0
         1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002


                                Sin Reforma       Con Reforma

Nota: El escenario "Sin Reforma" constituye una proyección lineal de las tasas de mortalidad infantil de acuerdo
con el comportamiento registrado durante los primeros años de la década de los noventa.

6.       La modernización de la que fue objeto el sistema de facturación de la CCSS permitió que
se redujera el tiempo que tomaba el proceso. Este pasó de una cifra cercana a los 25 días en el
periodo pre-reforma a tan solo 14 días en el periodo 2002-2003. Esta reducción en el número de
días genera un ahorro de más de 12 millones de dólares a la CCSS.

Costos de la reforma

El financiamiento del proceso de reforma en salud corrió por cuenta de varios préstamos
realizados con organismos internacionales. En la Tabla 2 se presenta el detalle de los préstamos
así como sus respectivas contrapartidas locales.




                                                      - 49 -

                    Tabla 2: Monto de los préstamos considerados en el ACB

                           BM    Aporte local  BID     Aporte local España BCIE    Total
                  1995     1.11     0.50       0.00      0.56              1.61    3.79
                  1996     1.89     0.86       0.04      0.21              2.46    5.46
                  1997     3.91     1.78       2.45      0.08              3.92    12.14
                  1998     5.1      2.32       1.97      0.11              0.00    9.49
                  1999     2.25     1.02       1.36      0.30       13.71  0.00    18.64
                  2000     2.74     1.25       3.47      2.90       21.15  3.90    35.41
                  2001     2.03     0.92       9.00      3.12        2.60  1.71    19.39
                  2002     2.97     1.35       4.96      6.01        2.53  1.66    19.47
                  Total    22.0     10.0       23.2      13.3       40.00  15.27   123.79


La mayoría de estos préstamos fueron aprobados por medio de leyes especiales en la Asamblea
Legislativa. El préstamo con el Banco Mundial, fue aprobado en 1994 y los principales
componentes del proceso de reforma a los que suministraría fondos fueron la readecuación del
modelo de atención, el fortalecimiento institucional de la CCSS, el desarrollo de sistemas
alternativos de financiamiento y de administración de los hospitales y el fortalecimiento
institucional del Instituto Costarricense de Investigación y Enseñanza en Nutrición y Salud
(INCIENSA).

El préstamo con el BID para el "Programa de Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Salud" (Ley
7374) se destinó al fortalecimiento del Ministerio de Salud y desarrollo de sus funciones rectoras
así como el fortalecimiento de la red de atención primaria en salud (construcción, remodelación y
ampliación de puestos y centros de salud posteriormente conocidos como EBAIS) y la
construcción del hospital de Alajuela.

El préstamo con el Gobierno de España se vinculó con el "Programa Nacional de Renovación del
Sistema Hospitalario Nacional", Ley 7683 del 20 de agosto de 1997. Mediante este programa se
llevaría a cabo la adquisición de equipos (médicos y no médicos) para distribuir entre las
diferentes instituciones de salud. De los US$ 40 millones que constituyen el préstamo US$ 20
millones constituyen un aporte del Instituto de Crédito Oficial del Reino de España y los restantes
US$ 20 millones, se adquirieron mediante un préstamo comercial con el Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
S.A.

Finalmente, se han ejecutado dos préstamos con el BCIE que ascienden a una cifra de US$ 15.3
millones (desembolsados hasta la fecha) y cuyos objetivos principales son la ampliación y
construcción de hospitales así como un centro de especialidades oftalmológicas.

A pesar que la reforma fue financiada en su mayor parte por estos préstamos, esto no quiere decir
que la CCSS no haya realizado un esfuerzo significativo en este proceso, lo cual se ve reflejado
necesariamente en términos de gastos, principalmente por las mayores actividades desarrolladas
en el nivel de atención primaria. Como parte de nuestra metodología consideramos apropiado
valorar los gastos realizados por la CCSS en este periodo de tiempo.
Para construir esta serie, se asume que el gasto correspondiente es aproximadamente de un 5%
del gasto en salud de la CCSS. Estas cifras representaron para el periodo 1997-2002 un total de
221 millones de dólares en términos reales.



                                                 - 50 -

Todas estas inversiones generaron un sinnúmero de beneficios para la población costarricense. En
la siguiente sección se realiza una valoración económica de tales beneficios con el fin de estimar la
rentabilidad económica que generó el proyecto de reforma en salud costarricense.

Resultados del Análisis Costo Beneficio

Aspectos generales

En la Tabla 3 se muestran los principales resultados obtenidos para cada uno de los tres
escenarios planteados. El escenario número 1 es el más optimista de los tres, donde se considera
que los beneficios obtenidos se producen como consecuencia únicamente de las inversiones del
BM, el aporte local y el costo estimado para la CCSS por la implementación del nuevo modelo de
atención. Bajo estas circunstancias el valor presente de los beneficios totales alcanza una cifra
superior a los 30 mil millones de colones (86 millones de dólares), con una TIR de 69%. La TIR
obtenida supera con creces la tasa de descuento utilizada en el análisis (10%) y cualquier tasa
alternativa de rentabilidad del mercado financiero. La razón beneficio - costo que se presenta
para este escenario indica que por cada colón invertido el proyecto de reforma en salud generó
aproximadamente 1.5 colones de beneficios, una cifra que corrobora las conclusiones obtenidas a
partir de la TIR.

                                     Tabla 3: Resumen de resultados

                               Categoría                Base       Escenario 1 Escenario 2 Escenario 3

                       VP Beneficios
                            Colones                   89,656
                            Dólares                     254
                       VP Costos
                            Colones                                  59,252         67,337       76,864
                            Dólares                                    168           190           217
                       VP de los beneficios netos                    30,403         22,319       12,792
                       (millones colones)
                       VP de los beneficios netos                       86           63             36
                       (millones dólares)
                       TIR                                             69%           53%           36%
                       Razón Beneficio Costo                           1.5           1.3            1.2


Nota: El Valor Presente Neto (VPN) de los Beneficios es igual a los beneficios directos e indirectos menos los
costos totales del proyecto.
La razón Beneficio Costo es igual al valor presente de los beneficios totales dividido por el valor presente de los
costos totales.

En el escenario 2 que incluye adicionalmente la inversión del BID, el valor presente de los
beneficios netos alcanza una cifra de 22 mil millones de colones (63 millones de dólares) con una
TIR de 53%. Estas cifras conducen a la obtención de una razón beneficio - costo de 1.3:1, tal y
como se muestra en la Tabla 3. En este caso por cada colón que se invirtió en el proceso de
reforma de salud se generaron 1.3 colones de beneficio.



                                                       - 51 -

Finalmente, en el escenario 3 se considera el mayor grupo de inversiones (BM, aporte local, BID
y España) junto con los costos estimados para la CCSS de la implementación del modelo de
atención. En este escenario el valor presente de los beneficios netos alcanza una suma de 12 mil
millones de colones (36 millones de dólares), con una TIR de 36% y una razón beneficio - costo
de 1.2:1.

Bajo cualquiera de los escenarios planteados el análisis demuestra que los beneficios obtenidos
por medio del proyecto de reforma en salud superan sin lugar a dudas los costos requeridos para
su operación. Adicionalmente debe considerarse que los escenarios de obtención de beneficios
considerados son en realidad conservadores, por lo que estas cifras de beneficios en realidad
pueden ser aún mayores.

En la siguiente sección se considera el comportamiento de los indicadores de rentabilidad
previamente analizados, pero utilizando diferentes tasas de descuento y asumiendo una reducción
de los beneficios del 10%. De esta manera se plantea qué tan sólidas pueden ser las conclusiones
previas, respecto a los beneficios económicos generados a partir de la implementación del
proyecto de reforma en salud.

A modo de resumen, en la Tabla 4 se presenta una descripción del impacto que la reforma en
salud generó para cada una de las variables de análisis y se realiza su valoración en términos
económicos.

                   Tabla 4: Impacto económico del proceso de reforma en salud

                                                 Ahorros                       Valor presente
               Resultado            Cantidad    Colones      Dólares       Colones       Dólares
               Reducción días
               paciente              129,971 8,334,588,181  23,575,252  5,616,753,870   15,887,574
               Reducción
               hospitalizaciones     100,869 37,595,317,891 106,342,276 22,276,636,220  63,011,788
               Reducción
               infecciones
               intrahospitalarias    37,034  67,745,457,135 191,625,089 41,694,064,840 117,936,009
               Reducción egresos
               según 7 causas         7,788  3,214,204,829  9,091,713   2,121,365,080    6,000,502
               Reducción en días
               del tiempo para
               proceso de
               facturación (por mes)   11    4,703,245,431  13,303,620  4,479,088,319   12,669,568
               Reducción muertes
               infantiles             919    23,096,648,477 65,331,278  14,120,634,599  39,941,687


Sensibilidad del proyecto

El análisis de sensibilidad como su nombre lo indica permite ver qué tan sensibles son los
indicadores de rentabilidad del proyecto si se consideran diferentes tasas de descuento para los
flujos del proyecto así como posibles reducciones en el monto de beneficios económicos
percibidos.




                                                    - 52 -

Los supuestos establecidos en esta sección permiten analizar qué tan rentable hubiese sido el
proyecto de haberse utilizado tasas de descuento del 5 y 15%. La tasa del 5% es una de las tasas
recomendadas por la Organización Mundial de la Salud para la evaluación de proyectos de corte
social tal y como es el caso de nuestro proyecto. Los principales resultados para cada uno de
estos escenarios se presentan en la Tabla 5.

              Tabla 5: Análisis de sensibilidad con diferentes tasas de descuento

                                          5%                      10%                    15%
                                               Valor presente neto beneficios (colones)
                  Escenario 1            41,345                 30,403                  22,513
                  Escenario 2            31,052                 22,319                  16,050
                  Escenario 3            19,150                 12,792                   8,340


                                                Valor presente neto beneficios (dólares)
                  Escenario 1             117                     86                      64
                  Escenario 2              88                     63                      45
                  Escenario 3              54                     36                      24


De acuerdo con la información provista por la Tabla 5 es claro que los beneficios del proyecto son
robustos en los escenarios considerados. Con una tasa del 5% los beneficios del proyecto se
incrementarían sustancialmente, alcanzando sumas de más de 41 mil millones de colones (US$
117 millones). En el caso que la tasa de descuento utilizada hubiese sido superior a la realmente
considerada en el análisis, los beneficios presencian una reducción que en el escenario con
mayores inversiones reporta un beneficio neto del orden de los US$ 24 millones.

                  Tabla 6: Análisis de sensibilidad, reducción de beneficios

                                                        Reducción 10%
                              Categoría       Base        beneficios


                                             VPN millones colones


                            Escenario 1      30,403         21,438
                            Escenario 2      22,319         13,353
                            Escenario 3      12,792         3,826


                                             VPN millones dólares


                            Escenario 1        86             61
                            Escenario 2        63             38
                            Escenario 3        36             11


                                                      TIR


                            Escenario 1       69%            53%
                            Escenario 2       53%            37%
                            Escenario 3       36%            18%




                                                 - 53 -

Por otra parte, se estiman las consecuencias de una posible reducción del 10% en el monto de los
beneficios percibidos por parte del proyecto de reforma. En este caso y tal como se muestra en la
Tabla 6, los beneficios sufren una considerable reducción, pero aún así el proyecto no dejaría de
ser rentable. La TIR en el escenario que considera las mayores inversiones se reduce a la mitad,
pero supera incluso la mayor tasa de descuento utilizada en el análisis de sensibilidad anterior
(15%).

Todo parece indicar que las mejoras en salud que la población ha recibido y las reducciones en
costos innecesarios para la administración de la CCSS, constituyen dos de los más claros ejemplos
de lo que implica la ejecución de un buen proceso de reforma del sector salud, cuya meta principal
ha sido, y debe seguir siendo, alcanzar el mayor nivel de bienestar de la población costarricense.

Conclusiones

Los resultados del presente análisis son contundentes con la afirmación de los beneficios del
proceso de reforma en Costa Rica. Logramos no solo la documentación de algunos beneficios, en
términos económicos, sino también una demostración concluyente que las inversiones vinculadas
con el proceso de reforma produjeron beneficios económicos que superan al costo de la reforma
en una proporción de 1.5 a1.

Las cifras más relevantes indican que el Valor Presente Neto (VPN) de los beneficios equivale a
US$ 86 millones con una Tasa Interna de Retorno (TIR) de 69%. Aún en el escenario más
conservador y considerando todas las inversiones del proceso de reforma, US$ 217 millones, los
beneficios netos suman US$ 36 millones con una TIR de 36%. Los resultados del presente
análisis revelan, sin lugar a duda, que el proceso de reforma costarricense ha arrojado beneficios
sustanciales para la sociedad y la economía del país. Si bien existe una agenda pendiente
importante, las inversiones realizadas hasta la fecha deberían motivar a los tomadores de decisión
a continuar con las reformas.




                                                - 54 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              2/1992                    8    TM; ECONOMIST (2); PUBLIC        S               S
                                             HEALTH SPEC.(1); HEALTH
                                             ADMIN SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS
                                             SPEC. (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPEC. (1)
              5/1992                    7    TM; PUBLIC HEALTH (2);           S               S
                                             HEALTH ECONOMIST (2);
                                             HEALTH ADMIN. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              7/1992                    2    HEALTH SPEC. (1);                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPEC.(1)
              9/1992                    2    TM; HEALTH ADMIN SPEC.           S               S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1)
              11/1992                   5    TM; HEALTH ADMIN (1);            S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); MIS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              3/1993                    7    TM; ECONOMIST (1); PUBLIC        S               S
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (1); HEALTH
                                             ADMIN. (1); OPERATIONS
                                             SPEC. (2);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);



 Supervision

              12/1993                   1    PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT            HS             HS
                                             (1)
              05/1995                   5    HEALTH ADMINISTRATION            HS              S
                                             (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH (2);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              11/1995                   6    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                             HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
                                             (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH (2);
                                             PROJECT FINANCING (1)
              05/1996                   3    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); SR.       HS             HS
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              07/1996                   4    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); SR.       S               S




                                              - 55 -

                                           ECONOMIST (1); HEALTH
                                           FINANCING SPEC. (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               12/11/1996              3   HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);             S    S
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               02/1998                 4   HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);             S    S
                                           OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
                                           (1); HEALTH ECONOMIST (1)
               11/1998                 1   PROCUREMENT ANALYST                S    S
                                           (1)
               01/1999                 3   TASK MANAGER (1);                  U    U
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (1)
               04/1999                 1   PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)            S    S
               07/1999                 1   PROCUREMENT ANALYST                S    S
                                           (1)
               07/1999                 7   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           PROC/IMPLEM SPECIALIST
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (5)
               12/2000                 2   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               06/2002                 2   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)


 ICR
               9/2002                 3     TM (1); PROCUR SPEC.              S    S
                                            (1); TEAM ASSISTANT
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            34.0                       355,149
  Supervision                        115.45                        279,059
  ICR                                      8                        32,000
  Total                              299.26                        690,208




                                            - 56 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 57 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 58 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

A. INSTITUTIONAL REFORM COMPONENT

1. CCSS. Perfil Funcional y Estructural de la CCSS, April 1993.
    Perfil Funcional y Estructural de la CCSS, April 1993.
    Componente Fortalecimiento Institucional de la CCSS, January 1993.
    Componente Sistema de Suministros, May 1993.
    Sistema de Suministros Para la Atención Integral de las Personas. February 1993.

2. CCSS. Proyecto Rectoría y Fortalecimiento del Ministerio de Salud (Programa de Mejoramiento de Servicios
de Salud CR-0120/BID), August 1992.

3. CCSS. Perfil Funcional y Programa de Sensibilización (Formación), September 1992.

4: CCSS. Fondo Nacional de Formación y Capacitación en Salud, May 1993.

5. CCSS. Estructura Organizativa del Centro de Desarrollo Estratégico e Información en Salud y Seguridad
Social, April 1993.

6. Carvajal Torres, Luis M. Estudio de Factibilidad Para Privatizar los Servicios de Distribución de Mercaderías
en el Departamento Almacenamiento y Distribución CCSS, May 1993.

7. Government of Costa Rica, Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy. Programa de Reforma del Estado,
Programa Nacional de Reforma del Sector Salud, March 1992.

8. InterAmerican Development Bank. Programa de Mejoramiento de Servicios de Salud CR-0120/BID, project
and loan documents, 1992.

9. Management Sciences for Health. Estudio de Financiamiento, Adquisición y Distribución de Farmacéuticos y
Materiales Médicos, October 1992.

10. Muller, Catherine and L. B. Villalobos. Consultoría en el Área de Recursos Humanos, December 1992.

B. REDEFINED PRIMARY HEALTH CARE MODEL

11. CCSS. Propuesta de Readecuación del Modelo de Atención, plus annexes, February 1993.

    Situación Actual del Modelo de Atención, October 1992.
    Infraestructura de Servicios de Salud por Cantón y Región Programática CCSS-MS, June 1992.

12. CCSS. Costa Rica: Perfil de Morbi-Mortalidad, 1992.

13. García, Ronny. Informe de Consultoría Sobre Gastos por Programa del Ministerio de Salud, October 1992.

14. Grunberg, Marcelo. Informe de Consultoría Sobre Recursos Humanos y Físicos de la CCSS y el Ministerio de
Salud, January 1993.

15. Marín, Fernando. Informe de Consultoría Sobre Readecuación del Modelo de Atención, November 1992.

C. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PILOT TESTING OF ALTERNATIVE FINANCING

16. CCSS. Proyecto de Reforma al Sector Salud: Componente Sobre el Financiamiento, April 1993.




                                                     - 59 -

    Análisis del Modelo de Financiamiento Actual y Estrategia Para su Rediseño, April 1993.
    Rediseño del Modelo de Financiamiento del Sector Salud, April 1993.
    Propuesta Para un Modelo de Financiamiento, September 1992.

17. CCSS. Modelo General de Compra y Evaluación de Alternativas de Gestión y Atención a la Salud: Término
de Referencia, December 1992.

18. Fiedler, John L. and F. Rigoli. The Costa Rican Social Security Fund's Alternative Models: A Case Study of
the Cooperative-Based, COOPESALUD Pavas Clinic, September 1991.

19. The Wyatt Company. Costa Rica Health Care Reform: Financial Component Report, February 1993.

D. STUDY ON DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL QUALITY CONTROL LABORATORY

20. CCSS. Fortalecimiento Institucional del Instituto Costarricense de Investigación y Enseñanza en Nutrición y
Salud "Dr. Uriel Badilla Fernández", April 1993.

E. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT

21. CCSS. Conceptualización y Estructuración de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto, April 1993.

         Perfil y Términos de Referencia de los Puestos de la UCP, April 1993.
         Esquema Básico Para la Administración Financiera, April 1993.
         Fortalecimiento Institucional de la Fundación FUCODOCSA, April 1993.

F. BACKGROUND REPORTS

22. CCSS Unidad Preparatoria. Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud, May 1993.

23. CCSS. Informe Evaluativo de la Gestión Administrativa y Programática de la Caja Costarricense de Seguro
Social, plus annexes, April 1991.

24. CCSS Presidencia Ejecutiva. La Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social en la Coyuntura de Crisis, March
1991.

25. Presidencia de la República de Costa Rica, Programa Reforma del Estado, Plan Nacional de Reforma del
Sector Salud, March 1993.

26. Homedes, Nuria. La Prevención y Promoción de la Salud en Costa Rica, June 1988.

27. Homedes, Nuria et al. Los Recursos Humanos del Sector Salud en Costa Rica, April 1988.

28. Saenz, Luis B. And M. Leon. Gastos de los Hogares en Servicios de Salud Privados en Costa Rica Durante
1987-1988, 1992.

29. Sanguinetty, Jorge A. Informe de Consultoría Sobre La Salud y el Seguro Social en Costa Rica, August 1988.

30. Vallejo, Cesar and R. Iunes. The Health Sector in Costa Rica: Financing and Efficiency, November 1991.
31. Quirós, Roberto C. La Atención Médica en la Seguridad Social: Métodos Para Mejorar la Relación
Costo/Eficiencia de los Programas, October 1991.

32. Vargas, Telmo. Eficiencia del Sector Público y Privatización en Costa Rica, Marcha 1990.




                                                      - 60 -

          Additional Annex 8. Supporting Data and Tables


            Table 8.1 Trends in Government Debt towards the CCSS

Cifras reales en US$


        Concepto          1997        1998         1999          2000         2001        2002
   Deuda consolidada
      seguro salud      31,579,536  33,545,145   22,946,774   25,062,900   33,978,001   19,949,171

   Deuda consolidada
   seguro pensiones      220,325     -529,475    7,044,127    3,753,986    8,643,923    5,290,837


Deuda consolidada total 31,799,862  33,015,669   29,990,900   28,816,886   42,621,925   25,240,003




            Table 8.2. Overall Debt Ratios




                                                     - 61 -

- 62 -

- 63 -

