Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3654 CR
Loan Agreement
(Health Sector Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 6, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3654 CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project will be carried out by Caja 
Costarricense de Seguro Social (CCSS) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to CCSS a portion of the proceeds of 
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
(C)
the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower dated September 13, 1993 
(Policy Statement) describing the Borrower's objectives and policies in respect of the 
health sector; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
CCSS;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Account Bank" means a financial entity, acceptable to the Borrower and 
the Bank, duly established under the laws of Costa Rica;
(b)
"Annual Implementation Plan" means each of the annual implementation 
plans submitted to the Bank by the Borrower and CCSS pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement and Section 2.05 (a) of the Project Agreement, respectively, and which 
plan has been approved by the Bank;
(c)
"Basic Health Team" means each of the seven hundred teams of health 
personnel necessary to offer the minimum package of primary health care services under 
the Redefined Primary Health Care Model in the Health Regions as such teams are 
defined and described in the document entitled "Propuesta de Readecuaci›n del Modelo 
de Atenci›n, Informe Final", February 1993 (hereinafter Informe) and which teams will 
be established by CCSS in accordance with the Programa de Integraci›n and "Basic 
Health Teams" means all of such teams;
(d)
"Charter" means the Borrower's Ley Constitutiva de la Caja Costarricense 
de Seguro Social, No. 17 of October 22, 1943 as amended from time to time, including 
any other legal norms related to the operations of CCSS;
(e)
"Convenio" means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered 
into between the Borrower, through MF, and CCSS providing for the exchange of tax, 
social security and income
information between MF and CCSS; 
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing on January 1 
and ending on December 31;
(g)
"Health Area" means each of the seventy four (74) areas comprising an 
array of health facilities with various levels of complexity as such areas are defined 
and described in the Informe
and which areas will be established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of 
this Agreement and "Health Areas" means all of such areas;
(h)
"Health Center" means each of the health units entitled centros de salud 
as defined and described in the Borrower's Reglamento General del Sistema Nacional de 
Salud approved by the
Borrower's decree No. 19276-S dated November 9, 1989 (hereinafter Reglamento);
(i)
"Health Post" means each of the health units entitled puestos de salud as 
defined and described in the Reglamento;
(j)
"Health Regions" means each of the seven administrative regions (regiones 
administrativas) of CCSS as provided in the Reglamento and consisting of the regions 
Page  3
of Huetar Norte, Central Norte, Central Sur, Huetar Atl?ntica, Chorotega, Pacòfico 
Central and Brunca;
(k)
"Human Resources Development Fund" means the fund, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be established by CCSS for purposes of administering the training activities 
under Part A.3 of the Project;
(l)
"INCIENSA" means the Borrower's Institute of Research and Education in 
Health and Nutrition, Instituto Costarricense de Investigaci›n y EnseŸanza en Salud, 
within MH, established through the Borrower's Ley 6088 of October 7, 1977 and 
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 217 dated November 11, 1977;
(m)
"Indigent Population" means all the individuals who fall under the 
category of "asegurado por cuenta del Estado" as provided in the Borrower's Decree No. 
15133-S dated January 4, 1984 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 13 
dated January 18, 1984;
(n)
"Institutional Development Plan" means the plan referred to in Section 
6.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement;
(o)
"MF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, Ministerio de Hacienda;
 
(p)
"MH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health, Ministerio de Salud;
 
(q)
"PCU" means the unit established in CCSS as indicated in the letters from 
CCSS to the Bank dated August 17, 1993 and August 26, 1993 and charged with the 
coordination and supervision of
the Project;
(r)
"Programa de Integraci›n" means the program referred to in Section 6.01 
(d) of the Loan Agreement;
(s)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Caja 
Costarricense de Seguro Social (CCSS) of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and CCCS, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(t)
"Redefined Primary Health Care Model" means the model of provision of 
primary health care services, defined and described in the document entitled 
"Propuesta de Readecuaci›n del Modelo de Atenci›n, Informe Final", February 1993, and 
which model includes: (a) the integration of preventive and curative services in the 
Health Areas with a focus on the family unit and ensuring continuity of medical 
personnel in the attention of health care; (b) the establishment of epidemiologic 
surveillance in each Health Area for local planning and measurement of progress in 
health outcomes; (c) the delegation to the Health Areas of budgetary and management 
functions; (d) universal coverage; (e) improved mechanisms to ensure compliance with 
the referral system; and (f) an increased involvement of the community to ensure a 
more responsive health system;
(u)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(v)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CCSS pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty two million dollars 
($22,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Account Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
Page  5
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)
shall carry out Part D of the Project, through INCIENSA, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, health, 
scientific, environmental and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such Part of 
the Project;
(b)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CCSS to perform all its obligations set 
forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable CCSS to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
(c)
without limitation or restriction to the provisions in the above 
paragraphs (a) and (b), the Borrower, through MF, shall make available part of the 
proceeds of the Loan to CCSS under an agreement under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank including provisions for the cancellation of the 
outstanding debt of the Borrower with CCSS and for the full and timely compliance with 
the Borrower's future payment obligations with CCSS related to the health insurance 
(Seguro de Enfermedad y Maternidad). The Borrower shall authorize the respective 
annual budgetary allocations to ensure that MF is able to comply with the provisions 
of the above agreement;
(d)
without limitation or restriction to the provisions in the above 
paragraphs (a) and (b), the Borrower shall annually transfer to CCSS all necessary 
funds to cover the costs of operating the Health Centers and Health Posts to be 
transferred from MH to CCSS under the Programa de Integracion. Without limitation or 
restriction to the above provision, the estimated amounts to be transferred, which 
include the salaries and fringe benefits of the personnel to be transferred, are the 
following: $3,400,000 equivalent in Fiscal Year 1995; $8,500,000 equivalent in Fiscal 
Year
1996; $15,500,000 equivalent in Fiscal Year 1997 and thereafter; and
(e)
the Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations and exercise all 
of its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement and the Convenio in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur in any action which would 
have the effect of
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement, the Convenio or 
any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, C 
and E of the Project shall be carried out by CCSS pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Page  6
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than August 31 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval, a proposed 
annual implementation plan for the
upcoming year covering in detail the implementation and cost schedule of Part D of the 
Project;
(b)
not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year during the execution 
of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank a progress report, of such scope and 
detail as the Bank may reasonably request, on the progress achieved in the 
implementation of Part D of the Project; and
(c)
participate in the annual reviews referred to in Section 2.06 of the 
Project Agreement and take all necessary action to implement, or to enable CCSS to 
implement, any remedial actions to be taken as a result of the referred annual 
reviews.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain in INCIENSA an organizational 
structure, functions and staffing, satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of 
Part D of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall transfer to CCSS, in a timely fashion, all 
necessary funds to cover the full costs of health care for the Indigent Population; 
such costs to be calculated in
accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through INCIENSA: (a) carry out, not later 
than June 30, 1995, the study under Part D.1 of the Project; (b) promptly after its 
completion, submit to the Bank a copy of the study for its review; (c) not later than 
October 1, 1995 submit to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, based on 
the results and recommendations of the study and the Bank's comments thereon; and (d) 
implement such action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part D of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  7
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CCSS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
A situation shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that CCSS 
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CCSS to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CCSS or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
The Programa de Integraci›n shall have not been implemented in accordance 
with its terms and provisions.
(f)
By July 31, 1996, the Bank shall have not received evidence, satisfactory 
to the Bank, showing that the Borrower has enacted legislation, and regulations 
related thereto, adopting a comprehensive and adequate regulatory framework on private 
sector participation in the provision of health care services, all satisfactory to the 
Bank, and that such legislation and regulations
are in full force and effect.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (c) or (e) or (f) of Section 5.01 
(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
Page  8
(a)
The Subsidiary Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and CCSS.
(b)
CCSS shall have prepared a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
implementation of Parts A.1 and A.3 (a) of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall have established the Health Areas in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)
The Borrower and CCSS shall have: (i) furnished to the Bank a time-bound 
program, satisfactory to the Bank providing for: (1) the establishment of the Health 
Basic Teams; and (2) the transfer of all Health Centers and Health Posts from the MH 
to CCSS together with the transfer of approximately 1,700 MH health professionals and 
auxiliary personnel to CCSS; and (ii) taken all
necessary actions, including the enactment of legislation and the issuance of 
regulations, to authorize the implementation of the above program.
(e)
The Convenio shall have entered into force.
 
(f)
The Borrower and CCSS shall have prepared standard bidding documents, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be utilized for the procurement of goods and works under 
local competitive bidding
procedures.
(g)
The Special Account has been duly opened.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CCSS, 
and is legally binding upon CCSS in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
parties thereto and is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the Convenio has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties 
thereto, and is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms; and
(d)
that the actions taken pursuant to Section 6.01 (c), (d) (ii) and (g) are 
valid and sufficient under the laws of Costa Rica.
Section 6.03. The March 7, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 5016-1000
San Jose, Costa Rica
Telex:
2277 MIN HAC
For the Bank:
Page  9
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/ Elòas Jimenez Fonseca
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  700,000        50%
(2) Equipment                  4,500,000        70%
    and Furniture
(3) Consultants'               8,600,000        100%
    services
(4) Training and               5,300,000        90%
    Fellowships
Page  10
(5) Printing of                  500,000        100%
    training
    materials
    and manuals
(6) Incremental                  400,000        100% of expendi-
    operating                                   tures made until
    costs                                       June 30, 1995; 75%
                                                of expenditures
                                                made from July 1,
                                                1995 until
                                                June 30, 1996; 50%
                                                of expenditures
                                                made from July 1,
                                                1996 until
                                                June 30, 1997; and
                                                25% of expendi-
                                                tures made after
                                                June 30, 1997
(7) Unallocated                2,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                22,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "incremental operating costs" means 
expenditures for: (a) the maintenance of medical equipment and computers financed 
under the Project; (b) travel related to supervision of the Project; and (c) office 
supplies for the use of the PCU in respect of Project coordination.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (6) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1993; (b) payments made for 
expenditures related to computer hardware under Part A.2 of the Project unless CCSS 
has submitted to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
implementation of the improved management information system; (c) payments made for 
expenditures related to equipment under Part B.1 of the Project unless the Bank has 
received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank showing that: (i) all Health Centers and 
Health Posts in the respective Health Area have been transferred from MH to CCSS 
together with the respective personnel in accordance with the Programa de Integraci›n; 
(ii) all Basic Health Teams in the respective Health Area have been established and 
are fully operational; and (iii) CCSS has full and exclusive control over the 
management and provision of primary health care services in the respective Health 
Area; and (d) payments made for expenditures under Part A.3 (a) of the Project, unless 
CCSS has established the Human Resources Development Fund.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for such expenditures and under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower and CCSS in 
implementing reforms to: (a) improve the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of 
health care services delivered by CCSS; and (b) improve the quality control and 
surveillance system in the health sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower, CCSS and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
CCSS Institutional Reform and Development
Page  11
1.
Strengthening the organization of the CCSS through: (a) a redefinition of its 
institutional objectives and the role and functions of its board of directors and 
executive president; (b) a
separation of the administration of pensions, health care provision and financing 
management to ensure greater transparency in the use of resources; and (c) a transfer 
of management, operational,
programming and budgeting functions from the central level to the regional levels.
2.
(a) A study to review the existing management information system at CCSS; and 
(b) design and operation of an improved management information system for CCSS. 
3.
(a)   A program of training activities for senior management, middle management 
and service delivery staff at CCSS related to the design and implementation of the 
institutional reforms referred to in Part A.1 above and to the delivery of more 
efficient and quality health care services; and (b) a study on: (i) the analysis of 
the existing personnel policies, staffing patterns and incentives for personnel at 
CCSS and the implications of the civil service law; and (ii) personnel policies, norms 
and procedures, and staffing patterns required by CCSS to implement its institutional 
reforms.
4.
(a)   Strengthening the CCSS pharmaceutical and medical supplies system to 
improve its efficiency and to provide more effective support to health care services 
including: (i) the rehabilitation of the central warehouse (bodega central) and 
regional storage facilities; (ii) the design and operation of stock control mechanisms 
to prevent stock shortages and over-stocking; (iii) the design and operation of 
mechanisms for quality control; (iv) the development and utilization of specifications 
and selection criteria for medical supplies, updating of existing catalogs and design 
of criteria and terms of reference for the evaluation committees; (v) the streamlining 
of the procurement processes; (vi) the review of legal norms and processes on 
procurement procedures aiming at proposing improvements in the context of the 
institutional reforms of CCSS; and (vii) the analysis of cost effective measures for 
timely distribution of drugs and medical supplies to health facilities; and (b) 
rationalizing the use of drugs through the implementation of a plan of measures, 
agreed between the CCSS and the Bank, including the design of educational materials on 
use and prescription of drugs for medical professionals, pharmacists and
patients and operational research; and design and operation of an improved system for 
supervision, control and monitoring of prescription of drugs.
Part B:
Redefined Primary Health Care Model, Quality Assurance and Hospital Study
 
1.
A program to implement the Redefined Primary Health Care Model in the Health 
Regions commencing in 1993 in Huetar Norte. The program shall comprise:
(a)
the acquisition and utilization of medical equipment for the Health 
Centers and Health Posts in the Health Areas;
(b)
the development and utilization of a quality assurance system to monitor 
health indicators, clinic staffing and workload, medical procedures and patient 
satisfaction; and
(c)
technical assistance for the operation of the Basic Health Teams.
 
2.
A study to review the secondary and tertiary health care levels and make 
proposals to reform such levels for improving the quality of services, achieving 
greater participation of the private
sector and offering financing alternatives.
Part C:
Resource Management and Pilot Testing of Alternative Models of Health 
Care Financing
1.
Development and utilization of a budgeting system based on programs and related 
outcomes and a complimentary monitoring and evaluation information system to improve 
the incentives for health
service managers to encourage cost control and efficiency, and increase transparency 
in the use of CCSS resources at all levels of the health care system.
Page  12
2.
A series of studies related to the improvement of economic incentives to 
stimulate affiliation to the CCSS, discourage underreporting of incomes and encourage 
contribution by independent workers; such studies to consist on: (a) the impact of 
non-contribution and evasion on CCSS revenues; (b) an actuarial review of the adequacy 
of current premium levels in the context of the Redefined Primary Health Care Model; 
and (c) an analysis of the current methods utilized by  CCSS to calculate the costs of 
benefits provided to the Indigent Population and how these costs are
recovered from the Borrower's treasury.
3.
A series of studies related to the process of reporting earnings and the 
collection of social security contributions; such studies to consist on: (a) a review 
of the current reporting of
earnings and collection system and proposals for the design of an improved collection 
system; (b) the development of specific procedures to enable CCSS to match reported 
incomes with other
agencies or entities of the Borrower and a methodology to control the level of evasion 
in coordination with the MF and the Borrower's department of income tax; (c) the 
design and implementation of an effective auditory process; (d) the modernization of 
the current computerized system utilized to bill and collect social security payments; 
and (e) the development of an automated system of control of contributions in the area 
of inspections which would integrate the central and regional levels.
4.
Studies on: (a) an analysis of the feasibility of utilizing alternative revenue 
sources; (b) the development of mechanisms to ensure that providers, the CCSS and the 
Borrower's central administration comply with the contracts for transfer of resources 
to the CCSS health insurance fund; and (c) the development of a framework for 
effective and equitable cost-recovery measures.
5.
(a)   A study to evaluate existing models of provisions of health care and 
financing (cooperatives, medicina de empresa, medicina mixta, libre eleccion medica); 
(b) development and
utilization of a methodology to calculate the unit costs of different types of 
services at facilities according to complexity level; (c) the design and operation of 
alternative systems for
hospital administration of financial and personnel resources, accounting and budgeting 
procedures, and inputs to the information system on hospital administration; (d) 
design and operation of a
module of the information system to enable CCSS to improve identification of 
affiliated members of the social security system; and (e) design and utilization of 
quantitative indicators to measure the effect of alternative delivery and financing 
models.
6.
The design and pilot testing of alternative financing and administration 
mechanisms including pilot models at the primary level, tertiary level (National 
Children's Hospital) and the
integrated health area level in the province of Alajuela.
Part D:
National Health Surveillance and Quality Control Laboratory
 
Strengthening of the institutional capabilities of INCIENSA to develop a 
national laboratory including: (1) a study to develop recommendations to transform 
INCIENSA into a national institution
and laboratory for health surveillance and quality control; and (2) rehabilitation and 
expansion of laboratories.
Part E:
Project Administration
 
Operation of the PCU including the acquisition and utilization of a monitoring 
system and equipment, and technical assistance related thereto.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Page  13
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
July 15, 1998                               
  515,000
January 15, 1999                            
  535,000
July 15, 1999                               
  555,000
January 15, 2000                            
  575,000
July 15, 2000                               
  600,000
January 15, 2001                            
  620,000
July 15, 2001                               
  645,000
January 15, 2002                            
  665,000
July 15, 2002                               
  690,000
January 15, 2003                            
  720,000
July 15, 2003                               
  745,000
January 15, 2004                            
  770,000
July 15, 2004                               
  800,000
January 15, 2005                            
  830,000
July 15, 2005                               
  860,000
January 15, 2006                            
  895,000
July 15, 2006                               
  925,000
January 15, 2007                            
  960,000
July 15, 2007                               
  995,000
January 15, 2008                          
1,035,000
July 15, 2008                             
1,070,000
January 15, 2009                          
1,110,000
July 15, 2009                             
1,155,000
January 15, 2010                          
1,195,000
July 15, 2010                             
1,240,000
January 15, 2011                          
1,295,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the  applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
Page  14
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth 
in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Bankshall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of 
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank. 
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Regional Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, a margin of preference may be granted to bids offering goods described in 
the accompanying specification which are manufactured to a substantial extent in any 
country, including Costa Rica, which is a party to the Mercado Comen Centroamericano, 
the common market created by the General Treaty for Central American Economic 
Integration signed at Managua, Nicaragua on December 13, 1960 by Guatemala, El 
Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica (hereinafter called the CACM), in 
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.
For the purposes of Part B of this Schedule, the following definition shall 
apply:
(a)
(i)
the term "Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted by a 
manufacturer 
established in the territories of member countries, 
including Costa Rica, of 
the CACM, for goods manufactured or processed 
in such territories and for 
which the bidders shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the entity or 
agency inviting bids 
that the manufacturing or processing cost of such goods 
include a 
value added in such territories equal to at least 20% of the 
ex-factory bid price of such goods;
(ii)
the term "non-Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted by a 
manufacturer 
established in the territories of member countries, 
including Costa Rica, of 
the CACM, for goods manufactured or processed 
in such territories, other than 
any such bid classified as a Qualified 
CACM Bid; and
(iii)
the term "Foreign Bid" means any bid which is neither a Qualified 
CACM Bid or 
a Non-Qualified CACM Bid.
 
2.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted and shall set forth the information required to 
establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference.
Page  15
3.
Bidders are required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of 
imported goods and the ex-factory price of locally manufactured goods.
4.
Except to the extent hereinafter provided, bids will be compared on the basis of 
their ex-factory or c.i.f. (port of entry) price adjusted in accordance with 
paragraphs 2.49 through 2.54 of the Guidelines.
5.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one or the following 
groups: Qualified CACM Bids, Non-qualified CACM Bids or Foreign Bids.
6.
All bids in each group will be first compared among themselves, to determine the 
lowest evaluated bid in each such group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group will 
then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison, an evaluated 
Qualified CACM Bid or Non-Qualified CACM Bid is the lowest it will be selected for 
purpose of award.
7.
If the lowest bid in the comparison under paragraph 6 above is a Foreign Bid, 
all Foreign Bids will be further compared with the lowest evaluated Qualified CACM Bid 
as determined under paragraph 6 above. For the purposes of this comparison only, each 
Foreign Bid will be compared on the basis of the sum of its c.i.f. (port of entry) 
price adjusted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 above, plus an amount 
equal to the smaller of: (a) the difference between the amount of customs duties and 
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation 
of goods offered in such Foreign Bid and that applicable to a Qualified CACM Bid; or 
(b) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Qualified CACM Bid is the lowest 
evaluated bid in such comparison, it shall be selected for the purpose of award; 
otherwise, the lowest evaluated Foreign Bid as determined under paragraph 6 above 
shall be so selected.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $250,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,400,000, and contracts for the printing of 
training materials and manuals estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $25,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $500,000, and contracts for the printing of training materials 
and manuals estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Special Provisions
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of this Agreement and the Guidelines in 
respect of procurement of goods and works:
1.
Pursuant to Part A of this Section:
 
(a)
In respect of the procurement of civil works, bids shall not be rejected 
on the grounds that they fall outside a pre-determined bracket.
(b)
In respect of the procurement of civil works and goods, bid securities 
issued by foreign sureties shall be admissible without the endorsement, 
counter-guarantee or other participation by any Costa Rican bank, the National 
Insurance Agency (Instituto Nacional de Seguros) of Costa Rica or other person or 
entity.
2.
Pursuant to Parts A and C of this Section, bidding procedures shall provide for 
suitable mechanisms, acceptable to the Bank, for price adjustments reflecting 
Page  16
increased costs of all contractors and suppliers.
3.
In the procurement of goods and civil works under the procedures referred to in 
Part C.1 and C.2, standard bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be 
utilized.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works procured under the 
procedures referred to in Part A of this Schedule and the first contract for civil 
works procured under the procedures referred to under Part C.1 of this Schedule and 
the first contract for goods procured under the procedures referred to under Part C.2 
of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower and CCSS in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower and CCSS shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower and CCSS shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower and CCSS shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
Page  17
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Page  18
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
