                                          Document of
                                         The World Bank


                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                            Report No.:53021-IN




                                       PROJECT PAPER

                                               ONA

                      PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 482.6 MILLION
                              (US$750 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                TO

                                  THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                            FOR THE

                      SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT

                                        February 22, 2010




  Human Development Unit (Education)
  South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                 CURRENCY EQUIV ALENTS


            (Exchange Rate Effective February 1,2010)
                 Currency Unit    Indian Rupee (INR)
                    INR 46.36 = US$1
                     US$ 1.55 = SDR 1
                         FISCAL YEAR
                      April 1      March 31


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM

ABL     Activity Based Learning
AWP&B   Annual Work Plan and Budget
BRC     Block Resource Center
CAG     Comptroller and Auditor General
CCE     Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation
CRC     Cluster Resource Center
CS      Country Strategy
CSS     Centrally Sponsored Scheme
Crore   10 Million
DEA     Department of Economic Affairs
DFID    Department for International Development (UK)
DPs     Development Partners
EC      European Commission
EE      Elementary Education
EFA     Education for All
FM      Financial Management
FMAP    Financial Management Action Plan
FM&P    Financial Management and Procurement
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
GER     Gross Enrolment Ratio
Gol     Government of India
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
JRM     Joint Review Mission
KGBV    Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (girls' boarding school)
LEP     Learning Enhancement Program
MHRD    Ministry of Human Resource Development
MoF     Ministry of Finance
NCERT   National Council for Educational Research and Training
NER     Net Enrolment Ratio
PAB     Project Approval Board
PDO     Project Development Objective
RTE     Right to Education
SC      Scheduled Caste
SMC     School Management Committee
SSA     Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan
ST      Scheduled Tribe
                                                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




            SWAp          Sector-Wide Approach
            TC            Technical Cooperation
            VEC           Village Education Committee
            WB            The World Bank


                                 Vice President:        Isabel M. Guerrero
                               Country Director:        N. Roberto Zagha
                                 Sector Director        Michal Rutkowski
                                Sector Manager:         AmitDar
                              Task Team Leader:         Samuel C. Carlson




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                            INDIA
                Additional Financing for Second Elementary Education Project

                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                          Page

Project Paper Data Sheet ................................................................................................................. 1
I. Introduction ................................................................................................................................ 2
II. Background and Rationale for Additional Financing in the amount ofUSD 750 million ......... 2
III. Proposed Changes ..................................................................................................................... 7
IV. Consistency with Country Strategy ...................................................................................... 12
V. Appraisal of Restructured or Scaled-up Project Activities ..................................................... 13
VI. Expected Outcomes .............................................................................................................. 17
VII. Benefits and Risks ............................................................................................................... 18
VIII. Financial Terms And Conditions For The Additional Financing ...................................... 19
PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET
Date: February 22, 2010                    Team Leader:      Samuel C. Carlson
Country: INDIA                             Sector Director: Michal Rutkowski
Project Name: Additional Financing for     Country Director: N. Roberto Zagha
the Second Elementary Education Project    Environmental Category: B
Original Project ID: P102547
AF Project ID:       P118673
Borrower: Republic of India
Responsible agency: Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD)
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m) (Ori inal Project + AF)
FY                 2009          2010        2011          2012            2013
Annual            215 M         355 M       150M          300M            300M
Cumulative        215 M         570M*       nOM            1020M            1320M
-Total amount disbursed in US$ is less than US$ 600 M because of exchange rate fluctuations between US$ and SDR.
The total approved creditfor SDR 364.4mfor the original project was disbursed in FY 2009 and 2010.
Current closing date: March 31, 2010
Revised closing date: September 30, 2012
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies? (Please
refer to paragraphs 3 and 4 of the MOP and to paragraphs 38, 43 and      X Yes oNo
47 of the Project Paper)
Have these been approved by Bank management?                             X Yes oNo
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?              X Yes oNo
Revised project development objectives/outcomes:          Not applicable.
Does the project trigger any new safeguard policies? NO
                                 For Additional Financing
[ ] Credit [X] Credit [] Grant
For Credits/Credits/Grants:
 Total Bank financing (US$ M.):       US$ 750 M
 Proposed terms: IDA Credit repayable in 35 years including a grace period of 10 years
                              Financing Plan (US$ M.) (AF)
                    Source                                        Total
Borrower/Recipient                                               11,324
IDA
     -New                                                          750
     - Recommitted
Others (DFID)                                                      220
Total                                                            12,294
                     Financing Plan (US$ M.) (Original project + AF)
                   Source                                         Total
Borrower/Recipient                                              21,049
IDA
     -New                                                         1,320
     - Recommitted
Others (DFID + EU)                                                 595
Total                                                           22,964

                                                       1
I. INTRODUCTION

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
   additional credit in an amount of SDR 482.6 million (equivalent to USD 750 million)
   to the India Second Elementary Education Project (P102547), credit number 4417-IN.

2. The proposed additional credit would help finance the costs associated with
   additional and expanded activities to enhance the impact of a well-performing project
   for the Indian fiscal years of 2010-11 and 2011-12. It would also help to cover a
   financing gap in FY2009-1 0, as the initial IDA credit which was designed to support
   FY2009-10 was fully disbursed in reimbursement of higher than expected FY2008-09
   expenditures. More specifically, the additional financing would enable expanded
   activities related increased access at upper primary level (grades 5-8), increased
   completion rates and improved learning outcomes for the full elementary cycle
   (grades 1-8), and enhanced ability to undertake national student learning achievement
   surveys in Grades 3,5 and 8. The expected outcomes of these activities are a greater
   percentage of children attending and completing elementary education, and
   demonstrating satisfactory learning levels, across all socio-economic categories.

3. Partnership arrangements: The United Kingdom's Department for International
   Development (DFID) is currently co-financing this project with about USD 300 M
   (including a Technical Cooperation (TC) Fund for approximately USD 10M), and
   has also prepared additional financing for approximately USD 220 M (including the
   continuation of the TC Fund for an additional USD 8 M), in close coordination with
   IDA via a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp). The European Union is currently
   providing approximately USD 100 M to this project via the SWAp, and is considering
   additional financing for SSA but this has not been confirmed.


II. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING IN THE AMOUNT OF
usn 750 MILLION
4. India, a country of over a billion people with a per capita GDP of about $1,046
   (2007), has made strong progress in reducing poverty and enhancing access to
   education. Poverty rates have fallen from 45 percent in the 1980s to below 25 percent
   in the last two decades. In 2002 India, through its 86th constitutional amendment,
   mandated elementary education a fundamental right of every child (and in August
   2009 the Indian Parliament approved the Right to Free and Compulsory Education
   Act, 2009 RTE), thus reflecting its deep commitment to education. Government of
   India (Gol) launched a nation-wide centrally sponsored scheme (CSS), Sarva Shiksha
   Abhiyan (SSA) in 2002, which aims to provide quality elementary education! to all
   children. Specifically, the goals of SSA are to: provide all children in the 6-14 age
   groups with education of satisfactory quality in schools and Education Guarantee
   Scheme (EGS) centers; bridge gender and social category gaps; and promote

I Elementary education is defmed as grades 1-8. In most States, primary education comprises Grades 1-5,

and upper primary includes Grades 6-8.

                                                   2
   universal retention by 2012. SSA is the largest ongoing Education For All (EFA)
   program in the world. It has been a highly successful program, particularly in
   achieving greater access to elementary education; the gross emollment ratio (GER) at
   this level now stands at 101. Between 2003 and 2009 the number of out of school
   children declined from 25 million to 8.1 million (less than 5 percent of the age cohort
   6-14), a remarkable achievement.

5. The Bank has provided USD 1.1 billion to support this program so far. The first
   credit for SSA I (2003-2007) was for USD 500 million. The second credit for SSA II
   (PI02547) was for USD 600 million, approved in May 2008 and made effective in
   September 2008 (and fully disbursed by September 30, 2009). DFID and EU have
   pooled their resources with those of the Bank and the Government of India via a
   Sector Wide Approach using country systems for implementation.

6. The project's original development objective is to significantly increase the number
   of 6-14 year old children, especially from special focus groups, enrolled, regularly
   attending and completing elementary education and demonstrating basic learning
   levels. There are no proposed changes to the original objectives, design or scope of
   the project, but the Key Project Indicators (KPls) and the Results Framework have
   been revised for greater realism and to include targets for the additional years of
   financing through 2012.

7. The core activities financed under SSA II include:

   Improving quality: The quality enhancement framework has a clear focus on
   education service delivery capacity building, with the following main pillars:
   ensuring basic provisioning (teacher training, textbooks, educational materials, etc.)
   to create enabling learning conditions for all children; capacity building and academic
   support to State and sub-State structures; monitoring of educational outcomes, and
   research and evaluation studies.

   Universalizing access and promoting equity: A combination of demand and supply
   side interventions are being financed to enable the hardest-to-reach children to attend
   school. These include the establishment, construction and extension of primary and
   upper primary schools and classrooms in districts where access is still an issue, and
   provision of teachers. The upper primary level is the main area of focus at this time.
   Demand-side interventions include provision of free textbooks and other materials to
   reduce household costs related to elementary schooling.

8. Implementation of the project, including compliance with its credit covenants, is
   satisfactory. As noted in the most recent Implementation Status and Results Report
   (ISR) following the Mid-Term Review of SSA II in January 2010, the
   outputs/outcomes and results recorded for the project show that its impact to date has
   been largely consistent with the expectations set out in the Project Appraisal
   Document (PAD) (please see Annex 1). More specifically, the updated Results
   Framework for SSA II shows that more than 5 million out-of-school children have
   been emolled since 2005 (Goal 1), and outputs with respect to the bridging of gender

                                           3
    and social category gaps (Goal 2) exceed targets detailed in the PAD. In addition,
    approved State Annual Work Plans & Budgets for FY2009-10 clearly focus on the
    key challenges of retention and quality (Goals 3 and 4); more than 55 percent of all
    SSA resources are now targeted towards improving quality, up from 38 percent in
    FY2006-07. The second round of nationalleaming achievement surveys conducted
    under SSA II in Grades 3, 5 and 7/8 (Table 1) shows modest but consistent
    improvement in learning across all grades and all subjects, in spite of the large
    number of first-generation school-goers that have come into the system.

          Table 1: Improvement in Round 2 of National Learning Achievement
                      Survey (2008) Compared to Round 1 (2004)
 2 0a Round 2008          Language        Maths         Environmental        Science          Social
                                                        Sciences                              Studies
 Mean Score and
 percentage point
 increase from 15t
  Round in 2004

Class III                 67.8            61.89
                          (+4.7%)         (+3.7%)

Class V                   60.3            48.46         52.2
                          (+1.4%)         (+1.9%)       (+1.8%)

Class VII..!              57.4            40.4                               42.86         44.7
                         (+3.1%)          (+9.9%)                            (+5.1%)       (+10.7%)

Class VIII                56.5            42.57                              42.7          47.9
                         (+2.6%)          (+3.4%)                            (+1.4%)      (+1.7%)

Source: NCERT s NatIOnal Learnmg Achievement Surveys, 2004 and 2008

9. The ISR ratings for SSA II over the last 12 months have been consistently
   satisfactory, including those for implementation progress and development objectives.
   There are no unresolved environmental, social or other safeguard issues.

10. On the fiduciary side there was some slippage in FY2008-09, particularly with
    regards to financial management (FM), leading to a "marginally unsatisfactory" FM
    rating after the July 2009 Joint Review Mission. This downgrade in rating was due
    primarily to increasing delays in receipt of audit reports, serious audit findings in two
    large-spending States, inadequate numbers of qualified accounts staff, weak
    information on monitoring of audits of Village Education Committees, and
    expenditure information which included advances contrary to the FM&P Manual.
    This led to preparation by MHRD, in consultation with the States, of an FM Action


28 of the 35 Indian States and Union Territories implement a Grade 1-7 elementary system, with Grade 8
part of secondary education. For these States the national achievement survey is administered at the end of
Grade 7.

                                                    4
   Plan (FM AP, shared with Development Partners in September 2009), whose
   implementation is now underway. The FM AP aims to strengthen oversight of SSA
   funds, reinvigorate quarterly meetings and capacity-building workshops with all State
   Financial Controllers, optimize staffing and training of accounts staff at State and
   District levels, support use of e-transfer of funds to District and sub-District levels
   wherever feasible, further strengthen internal audit procedures, improve tracking of
   fund releases made to sub-District levels and strengthen collection of expenditure
   certificates, adhere to agreed-upon timelines for submission of audit reports, and
   promote rapid follow-up of external auditors' comments. The task team welcomed
   this FM AP and confirmed during both appraisal of this Additional Financing
   (October 2009) and the Mid-Term Review of SSA II (January 2010) that MHRD is
   making progress in its implementation, although continued engagement is needed in
   five States with the highest levels of SSA expenditures, particularly with regards to
   ensuring adequate trained FM staff at State and District levels. In December 2009
   MHRD revised the SSA Financial Management and Procurement Manual, with
   several positive measures to improve the quality of internal controls and monitoring,
   timeliness of audits, staffing and training. The January 2010 Mid-Term Review
   Mission visited 20 Districts in 10 States, and reviewed all State Audit Reports for
   FY2008-09. While the review revealed a modestly positive trajectory on FM
   (including in Andhra Pradesh, whose negative audit findings had contributed to the
   downgrade in the FM rating in July 2009), audit reports for five of the larger States
   showed areas of concern (large amount of advances, reconciliation with banks not
   periodic, non-settlement of some previous year's audit objections" inadequate
   coverage especially BRCI CRCs and weaknesses in accounting practices, particularly
   at sub-district level). Many other audit reports confirmed expenditure but revealed
   other internal control issues. This led to new agreements with MHRD regarding
   increased focus on States' commitments to FM staffing and internal audit, and
   focused engagement in five large spending States. Following the Mid-Term Review,
   SSA II's FM rating was upgraded from "marginally unsatisfactory" to "marginally
   satisfactory", with clear benchmarks established to formally assess FM again in July
   2010 and January 2011.

11. The Borrower (Gol) and the implementing entities (MHRD and 35 States and Union
    Territories) are fully committed to this project. In fact, in both FY2008-09 and
    FY2009-10, both Central and State Government allocations and expenditures for SSA
    II exceeded expectations set out in the PAD. This acceleration in total SSA II
    program expenditures led to full disbursement of all IDA resources by September 30,
    2009, six months prior to the current closing date of March 31, 2010.

12. While SSA II is on track to achieve its Development Objectives, the agenda to ensure
    that all children complete elementary education and achieve satisfactory learning
    levels remains unfinished. In this sense, expanded and additional activities are
    needed to scale up SSA II's impact. The Gol is committed to continue its support to
    SSA under the 11th Five Year Plan (ending March 31, 2012), with domestic financing
    on the order ofUSD 11.3 billion. The Gol has requested IDA (as well as DFID and
    EU) for further assistance to complement Gol resources to address this ambitious


                                           5
   agenda under SSA. These investments are estimated to amount to USD 12.3 billion
   between FY2009-10 until FY2011-12.

13. Additional financing would also cover a financing gap in FY2009-1O, generated by
    very strong implementation capacity of the 35 Indian States and Union Territories and
    higher than expected SSA II expenditures in FY2008-09, which led to full
    disbursement of the original IDA credit (in conformity with the Financing
    Agreement) ahead of schedule. Without this additional financing for FY2009-10,
    achievement of the project's development objectives may be delayed and IDA's
    technical and fiduciary support for this year would be reduced. Financing of this gap
    would not significantly affect the continued economic justification of the project, nor
    cause any implementation delays in completing project activities.

14. Passage in August 2009 by the Indian Parliament of the Right to Free and
    Compulsory Education (RTE) Act improves the policy and legal framework for
    implementation of SSA, as it makes certain elementary education objectives
    mandatory for the States to achieve, and even justiciable. States will have to enforce
    policies with respect to school-based pupil: teacher ratios (PTRs),        opening of
    schools, and other school-based norms. In addition, the RTE's mandate of school-
    based PTRs means many States may need to redeploy teachers from over-served to
    under-served schools, thereby improving efficiency in teacher deployment. SSA and
    RTE are very well aligned; the current design, objectives and delivery mechanism of
    SSA will not change as a result of the RTE. However, the RTE does significantly
    increase the financial obligations of the GoI and the States for elementary education,
    a significant portion of which will be financed through SSA.

15. More specifically, the additional financing and extension of the project's closing date
    to September 30, 2012 would be used to: expand access to upper primary education
    (Grades 6-8); increase retention of elementary students until they complete 8th Grade
    (particularly for girls and other disadvantaged social categories); improve the learning
    levels of all elementary students in language, mathematics, social science and
    science; and strengthen the national system for undertaking student learning
    achievement surveys. Synergy across project goals would be maximized; improved
    quality would increase retention, as would targeted efforts to close learning gaps
    among disadvantaged groups.

16. The DPs would join GoI to review program implementation semi-annually in January
    and July each year as per terms of reference agreed between the GoI and DPs prior to
    each Joint Review Mission. This includes review of physical and financial progress,
    compliance with safeguards, and assessment of financial management and
    procurement systems along with recommendations for their further strengthening in
    States. In addition, it is worth mentioning that the World Bank's Country Strategy for
    India specifically supports increased use of country systems where possible for
    project implementation; SSA has been the pioneer in this respect with the results
    appreciated by all parties. Finally, as with the original credit for SSA II, while the
    DPs' financial contribution would only be a small slice of the Government's own


                                            6
    resources, past experience indicates its value in bringing in comparative global
    experience, and a constructive critique in implementation, monitoring and evaluation.


III. PROPOSED CHANGES

17. There is no proposed change to the project's development objective, design or scope.
    The focus and thrust ofthe project would change, however, to further emphasize
    expansion of upper primary education, retention of all elementary level students,
    and improved learning outcomes in all grades of elementary education. A more
    detailed description of these expanded and additional activities follows below.

Expanded and Additional Activities

18. In terms of upper primary level expansion, the additional financing would support
    expansion of primary schools (Grades 1-5) into elementary schools (Grades 1-8),
    construction of additional upper primary classrooms, procurement of classroom
    furniture, hiring of additional subject-specific upper primary teachers, distribution of
    textbooks to all upper primary students, and provision of teaching and learning
    equipment (e.g. for science). All 35 States and Union Territories would set annual
    targets for increasing upper primary enrollment rates in their respective Results
    Frameworks, approved by the SSA's Project Approval Board (PAB). Implementation
    of this would be monitored by MHRD and DPs through the Joint Review Mission
    (JRM) process.

19. Eight States need support from SSA to convert their present elementary education
    system of 7 grades to 8 grades. This implies curriculum reform, recruitment and
    training of subject-specific 8th grade teachers and provision of textbooks. In addition,
    approximately fifteen States are in the process of curriculum renewal, based on the
    National Curriculum Framework of 2005. This requires revision of State textbooks,
    related teacher professional development in the application of new curriculum and
    textbooks, and new forms of student learning assessment which emphasizes
    continuous and comprehensive evaluation (CCE). Additional financing would
    support the efforts of the States to implement CCE and introduce revised textbooks.

20. With regards to improved teacher availability and teacher performance, the additional
    financing would support recruitment of additional teachers and implementation of
    teacher professional development programs. States with the largest teacher shortages
    at the upper primary level would be particularly targeted for recruitment. Teacher
    training is increasingly need-based (as opposed to norm-based), and aimed at
    enabling teachers to promote student-centered learning strategies into classrooms.
    This is consistent with the revised guidelines of the National Council of Educational
    Research and Training (NCERT) for organization of in-service training of teachers of
    elementary schools under SSA3 ; additional financing would help States implement
    these strategies. In some States, activity-based learning (ABL) is being introduced,

3 "The Reflective Teacher: Organization ofIn-service Training of the Teachers of Elementary Schools
under SSA", NCERT, India, 2006.

                                                   7
   through which students learn in small groups, according to their own pace and
   learning level, by following a structured and sequenced set of learning activities that
   enable students to actively "construct" their knowledge together, after which it is
   demonstrated individually and assessed by the teachers before moving on to the next
   learning activity. Students in Grades 1-4 learn together in a multi-grade classroom
   using a wide range of materials and learning activity books.       ABL is now being
   adapted and implemented in thirteen States, and the initial observations in terms of its
   impact on reading and mathematics in the early grades are extremely positive. Such a
   major shift in teaching and learning strategy requires preparation of new learning
   materials, teacher professional development and a revised model for academic
   support, which would also be supported by SSA.

21. Additional financing would also go towards improved teacher performance and
    student learning outcomes through rollout of Learning Enhancement Programs
    (LEPs), focused on reading and basic numeracy in the early grades, in more than half
    of the country's 1.2 million elementary schools. Early reading and numeracy skills
    are increasingly viewed as the most critical building blocks for subsequent learning at
    the elementary level, and 22 States have initiated LEPs in Grades 1-2. At the upper
    primary level, 16 States have initiated LEPs aimed at improving science and
    mathematics, with technical support from NCERT and financing from SSA. These
    programs are still in their initial stages and need ongoing support to succeed and be
    scaled up.

22. Another area of proposed support from the additional financing is strengthening of
    academic support to schools. The aim is to increase school-based academic support
    through Block Resource Centers (BRCs) and Cluster Resource Centers (CRCs), and
    to ensure that resource persons (RP) hired to provide this academic support are
    qualified for the upper primary level. This will require additional capacity-building
    of the RPs and in some cases their redeployment to bring them closer to the schools.
    In addition, Pedagogy Units have been constituted in 32 States (26 States have set
    them up at the District level, as well). Subject-specific resource groups at various
    levels have been established, designed to focus on particular areas where students
    consistently have difficulties at the upper primary level. These resource persons
    would also receive specialized targeted training under SSA.

23. Implemented together in a comprehensive and holistic manner, improved access,
    curriculum reform, enhanced teacher availability and performance, revised textbook
    provision, CCE, academic support and targeted LEPs should help to improve learning
    outcomes and retention. T0 further increase retention, MHRD has followed up on
    recommendations from earlier SSA Joint Review Missions and directed States to
    develop specific plans in their 2010-2011 Annual Work Plans and Budgets to attain
    universal retention, combined with concrete, specific and viable strategies to achieve
    this. This will include targeted interventions to increase the transition rate from
    primary to upper primary schooling (currently 82 percent) with a focus on
    educationally backward blocks where transition rates are lowest, increased context-
    specific analysis of the causes of student dropout to determine needed interventions,
    and focused strategies for the most vulnerable social groups (first generation school-

                                            8
   goers, older girls, children with special needs, urban deprived children, and children
   from SC, ST and Muslim households), including community mobilization activities
   and consistent attendance monitoring. Additional financing would provide support for
   implementation of these State plans through the end of FY 2011-2012, particularly
   for the 166 Special Focus Districts (out of a total of 600 Districts) where retention is
   relatively low.

24. Another activity to be supported through additional SSA financing would be
    strengthening of School Management CommitteesNillage Education Committees
    (SMCsNECs), so they playa larger role in improving access, equity and quality.
    Specifically, expanded efforts to train members of SMCsNECs in the preparation and
    implementation of School Development Plans would be undertaken, as well as in
    their academic oversight and fiduciary responsibilities.

25. Improved elementary educational quality and retention should lead to enhancement in
    learning outcomes. These outcomes will be assessed through the administration of a
    series of national learning achievement surveys in 2010 and 2011 covering Grades 3,
    5 and 8 (or Grade 7 in those eight States which terminate elementary education at this
    stage). International technical assistance provided over the past two years through the
    Technical Cooperation (TC) Fund linked to SSA has supported NCERT for
    strengthening of capacities in the specific areas of learning assessment and evaluation
    of quality initiatives. This has further improved the design and development of the
    national learning achievement survey for Grade 5 (to be administered in March
    2010), which would be extended to Grades 3 and 7/8 during the period of additional
    financing.     It is worth noting that these national learning achievement surveys are
    among the most technically challenging to design and implement anywhere in the
    world, as they are implemented in 18 national languages and include almost 100,000
    children spread across all 35 States and Union Territories of the country. It is to
    India's credit that it has taken on this challenge under SSA, which needs ongoing
    support to succeed. In addition, through the TC Fund, four international-standard
    impact evaluations of quality improvement programs supported by SSA have been
    initiated. Up to four more program evaluations will be completed during 2010-11 and
    2011-12, after which a synthesis report on quality improvement will be produced.

Implementation and Fiduciary Issues

26. Institutional arrangements, including financial management, disbursement
    procedures, procurement guidelines, technical cooperation, and Joint Review
    Missions, would all remain the same. The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Framework for
    Implementation (last amended on March 31, 2008) and the Financial Management
    and Procurement (FM&P) Manual (last revised in December 2009) would remain the
    guiding documents for implementation.

27. However, the Results Framework, Results Monitoring Indicators and implementation
    schedule have been modified to reflect financing of SSA activities until the end ofthe
    11 th Five-Year Plan (March 31, 2012), and the closing date for the project would be
    adjusted accordingly to September 30, 2012, to allow time for preparation of

                                            9
    Financial Monitoring Reports for FY2011-12 and submission of final reimbursement
    claims. The Results Monitoring Indicators include new baselines for the Indian FY
    2007-08 (in a few cases the baseline is 2009), against which progress in subsequent
    years until 2012 would be measured. This is done to provide greater realism to the
    target indicators, rather than relying on 2005 baseline data from the PAD. The
    Results Monitoring Indicators include the core IDA 15 indicators for primary
    education. Targets of three of the KPls have been modified:

    a)    the number of out of school children would decline from the current level of 8.1
          million to 5.1 million (as opposed to a target of 4.9 million in the original PAD);
    b)    the transition rate from primary to upper primary would increase from 81 percent
          to 85 percent (as opposed to a target of89 percent in the original PAD); and
    c)    the retention rate at the primary level would increase to 80 percent (as opposed to
          a target of 75 percent in the original PAD).
28. Summary financing tables for FY2009-2012 are provided below, in both Indian
    Rupees and US Dollars. IDA and DFID disbursements would be based on a
    percentage of the total amount of SSA program expenditures deemed eligible for
    reimbursement by DPs, subject to annual caps4. To ensure "additionality", eligible
    expenditures are defined as GOI and States expenditures above a certain minimum
    threshold of baseline spending on elementary education; up to one-third of those
    eligible expenditures may be reimbursed by the DPs.

29. Disbursement would be made once per year around July/August for eligible
    expenditures incurred in the prior fiscal year (which ends in March). Disbursements
    would be based on Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) covering the previous fiscal
    year, and program expenditures reported in the FMRs would be subject to
    confirmation/certification by the annual audit reports of all implementing agencies
    and States. Gol would submit to the Development Partners a Consolidated Report of
    Audits summarizing the findings and certifying total program expenditures as
    reported in the individual audit reports of all implementing agencies by December
    31 st of each year. As per the disbursement formula, any discrepancies between the
    amounts of program expenditures reported by the FMRs and those reported in the
    Consolidated Report on Audits would lead to adjustments of subsequent
    disbursements, to be recovered from or reimbursed to Gol through the next
    disbursement. Agreement would be reached among the Goll DPs on amounts
    approved for disbursements before Gol would submit applications for withdrawal to
    the Banle




4The principle of annual caps is intended to facilitate DFID' s and ED's contributions to the program,
which are regulated by their internal processes.

                                                    10
 T a ble 2 : E sf 1m atedSSAE xpen Itures an dDPF manCIa IS upport m I n dO R upe es
                                                                O
                                                                          Ian
 SSA Expenditures, Eligible Expenditures and External Support in Rs. Crores
                               2009-10       2010-11    2011-12          Total
Projected Expenditure           18,000        19,000     20,000         57,000
Eligibility Threshold            6,900         7,400       7,900        22,200
Eligible Expenditure            11,100        11,600      12,100        43,800
1I3rd of Eligible
                                 3,663         3,828       3,993        14,454
Expenditure
Capped Total External'            1,855        2,318       2,318          6,491
Development Partners' Share
IDA                             695#           1,391      1,391          3,476
DFID                            341*            363        435           1,139
EU                               126*             -          -            126
#: RetroactIve financIng to cover FY2009-! 0 financIng gap.
*: For FY2009-1O, this includes the balance ofDFIDI EU funds from the original SSA II allocation.



     T a ble 3 : E f ted SSA E xpen Itures an dDPF manCIaIS uppo rt m USD
                 SIma                                              캯




SSA Expenditures, Eligible Expenditures and External Support in USD Million
                           2009-10       2010-11      2011-12       Total
Projected Expenditure                 3,882              4,098            4,314           12,294
Eligibility Threshold                 1,488              1,596            1,704            4,788
Eligible Expenditure                  2,394              2,502            2,610            7,506
1I3rd of Eligible
                                        790               826               861             2,477
Expenditure
Capped Total External                   400               500               500             1,400
DP'sShare
IDA                                     150#              300               300              750
DFID                                    74*                78               94               246
EU                                       27*               -                 -                27
#: RetroactIve fInancIng to cover FY2009-! 0 fInancmg gap.
*: For FY2009-1O, this includes the balance ofDFIDI EU funds from the original SSA II allocation.

30. The following points highlight the key disbursement aspects:

         Disbursement would be subject to receipt of the Consolidated Report on Audits
          due by December 31 each year. If the Consolidated Report is not received by
          April of the following year, no further disbursement would be made until the
          outstanding Consolidated Report is received. However, Gol would still be
          required to submit the FMRs on the due dates.
         When audit reports indicate higher levels of eligible expenditures when
          compared to the FMRs for the same period, the excess would be added to the
          next report-based disbursement; and when audit reports indicate lower levels of



5 The principle of annual caps is intended to facilitate DFID's and EU's contributions to the program,
which are regulated by their internal processes.

                                                    11
          eligible expenditures against the relevant FMRs, an adjustment would be made to
          the next disbursement by reduction.
         Any default or delay by a State in reporting annual expenditure in time for the
          June FMR would result in under-reporting of project expenditure and such
          expenditure could be included in the Consolidated Report on Audit and claimed
          from the next due disbursement.
         In case of late submission of an audit report by a State, Gol would not hold back
          submission of the Consolidated Report on Audit to the Partners. If such State
          audit reports are submitted to the Gol at a later date, the same would be factored
          in the next disbursement provided a revised Consolidated Report on Audit is
          submitted by June.
         In case a State does not submit the audit report of a given financial year by June
          of the next financial year, expenditure reported by such State would be excluded
          for disbursement purposes and not reinstated for that financial year even if
          submitted subsequently.

                             Table 4: Disbursement Schedule

                                FMR      Estimated
 Expenditure Period              Due    Disbursement  Audit Due                Ad.iustment
 April 2009 - March 2010      June 2010 August 2010 December 2010              August 2011
 April 2010 - March 2011      June 2011 August 2011 December 2011              August 2012
 April 2011 - March 2012      June 2012 August 2012 December 2012


IV.   CONSISTENCY WITH COUNTRY STRATEGY

31. The proposed additional financing and changes are entirely consistent with the
    current Country Strategy (CS), which emphasizes improved delivery of public
    services as the first of three key pillars. In addition, this financing would contribute
    to a second pillar of the CS - achieving rapid, inclusive growth - by reducing the
    human capital constraints to growth in both rural and urban areas. More specifically,
    the proposed additional and expanded activities are expected to: (i) increase the
    percentage and number of children completing elementary education and continuing
    on to secondary education; and (ii) improve learning outcomes as assessed by
    national learning achievement surveys. Both of these outputs would contribute to
    increased labor force productivity along with employment opportunities and higher
    wages, in addition to a wide range of social benefits (e.g. reduced fertility, improved
    health), which would assist in reducing poverty. The primary beneficiaries of these
    activities would be rural and less advantaged households whose children attend
    Government schools, thus furthering the inclusive growth strategy detailed in the CS.




                                             12
v.   ApPRAISAL OF RESTRUCTURED OR SCALED-UP PROJECT ACTIVITIES

32. The economic, financial, technical, institutional, fiduciary, environmental, and social
    aspects of the expanded and new activities under the Second Elementary Education
    Project have been appraised.

33. Economic: The economic appraisal of the additional financing confirms the general
    conclusions of the economic analysis of the original project. In the original analysis,
    the cost-benefit analysis was estimated at an internal rate of return (IRR) of 16
    percent. The benefits of the projects are assumed to come from two sources. As a
    result of the project: (a) a higher number of children complete primary and upper
    primary grades, and (b) children complete primary and upper primary grades with a
    better quality education, which results in a small increase in wages. The cost-benefit
    analysis done for the project can be assumed to be the lower bound on the return from
    the project, as it is assumed that benefits are due only to higher wages. In addition,
    this analysis does not consider the even higher rates of return which would accrue to
    those students continuing on to secondary education, made possible by increased
    numbers of Grade 8 graduates under SSA. Furthermore, the positive externalities
    resulting from more education in the population, such as better health-seeking
    behavior and lower fertility, are not easily quantifiable and therefore not included in
    the present analysis; if included these benefits would increase the rate of return even
    further. On the other hand, the less than expected declines in the number of out of
    school children suggest that reaching the "hardest to reach" children has a higher
    marginal cost, which would lower the IRR slightly. With the qualifications offered
    above, which would both increase and decrease the estimated IRR, the initial
    economic analysis is sufficiently robust to provide economic justification for this
    additional financing.

34. Financial: Projections were made on the fiscal sustainability of the additional
    financing, applying the proposed cost-sharing arrangements between Center and
    State. The analysis showed that, based on historical expenditure patterns by States on
    SSA, in aggregate and State-wise, the proposed cost sharing arrangement appears to
    be affordable for all States. In other words, resource availability will continue to
    support an increased pace of SSA implementation throughout the 11 th Five-Year Plan
    period. The Task Team has also assessed States' commitments to education and
    downstream fiscal impact, linked to SSA. The net result of this work confirms the
    fiscal sustainability of this additional financing. Although a few States may face
    increased pressure, given the decline in revenues due to the global economic
    downturn and increased future spending on secondary education, States have
    demonstrated their commitments to full cost-sharing of SSA expenditures over the
    past several years and these commitments will only strengthen with the
    implementation of the Right to Free and Compulsory Education Act.

35. Technical: Progress over the first seven years of SSA has been extremely impressive
    with significant gains in access and equity. From a baseline of 25 million out of
    school children in 2003, the numbers have reduced to about 8 million in 2009, as
    measured by independent surveys. MHRD and other independent surveys (e.g.
                                            13
   Public Report on Basic Education II and Pratham's Annual Status of Education
   Report) confirm this major improvement in access. This increase in enrollment is
   particularly evident in previously under-served rural areas, especially among girls,
   minorities and children from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. However,
   while more and more children are now coming into school, challenges remain in
   terms of retention and completion of the full elementary education cycle by all
   children, and the quality of education. Recognizing this, increasing thrust has been
   given under SSA II to interventions aimed at enhancing retention and improving
   quality, which have been described above in Section III.

36. As mentioned earlier, the TC Fund supported by DFID in parallel to SSA is providing
    capacity-building to NCERT for learning assessment and evaluation of quality
    initiatives. This has included study-tours for NCERT's assessment and evaluation
    staff in Europe and the United States, focused training and capacity building for
    NCERT staff in test item development, sampling frames, use of statistical packages
    and other assessment tools. In addition, the TC Fund is supporting rigorous impact
    evaluations of four major quality improvement interventions: the Activity-Based
    Leaming program in Tamil Nadu (described above in Section III); Multi-Lingual
    Education Programme for Tribal Children in Orissa; Early Reading Skills
    Enhancement Program in Himachal Pradesh; and the Children's Language
    Improvement Program/Children's Leaming Acceleration Program (CLIP/CLAP) in
    Andhra Pradesh. These impact evaluations will provide important information on the
    quality of these initiatives and will be shared with all the States for their
    consideration.

37. As part of its additional financing package, DFID has proposed an additional
    Technical Cooperation (TC) Fund. This would continue capacity-building activities
    at NCERT aimed at (i) developing and administering national student learning
    achievement surveys in Grades 3, 5 and 7/8, and (ii) conducting additional evaluation
    of quality-improvement initiatives. This TC Fund would enable the transfer and
    application of relevant national and international expertise and best practices to build
    capacities for monitoring learning outcomes and evaluating the impact of quality
    interventions. A total of eight program evaluations would be completed by 2012,
    together with a synthesis report of the findings. It would also encompass support for
    capacity building for the inclusion of evaluation in the design of all new quality
    improvement interventions.

38. Fiduciary: Management seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to grant a
    waiver to the requirement of referring to the Procurement and Consultant Guidelines
    in the legal documents for the proposed additional financing. The waiver request
    was endorsed by the Managing Director on February 18, 2010. The waiver request
    would grandfather the procurement arrangements agreed for SSA II. As under SSA
    II, the Financing Agreement would make no reference to the Bank Procurement and
    Consultant Guidelines. Instead, procurement under the additional financing would
    take place in accordance with (i) the procurement guidelines set forth in the SSA
    Financial Management and Procurement Manual (FMP), and (ii) relevant provisions
    of the Financing Agreement between India and IDA, dated August 14, 2008, and as

                                            14
    amended for the additional financing agreement. The procurement principles,
    methods and procedures laid out in the FMP Manual and the Financing Agreement
    are consistent with the Procurement and Consultant Guidelines. In addition, the
    Financing Agreement includes a section entitled 'Other Procurement Provisions' to
    ensure that project procurement arrangements substantially reflect the fundamental
    policy provisions of the Bank procurement guidelines.

39. As part of the joint supervision and to assess the performance and lessons learned
    from SSA II, a Procurement Ex Post Review of SSA was conducted during the
    second half of 2009, and the results of this review were incorporated into fiduciary
    discussions with MHRD during the Mid Term Review of SSA in January 2010. The
    review covered 688 contracts in 8 States: 229 at the State level, 259 at the District
    level and 200 at the community level. The review found that the agreed procurement
    procedures stipulated in the SSA FM&P Manual were generally adhered to. As a
    result of due diligence exercised during implementation, only less than 5 percent of
    all contracts were found to have some minor issues, and just 0.6 percent of all
    contracts reviewed generated any suspicion of fraudulent behavior.6 Compared to the
    findings of the previous SSA procurement review undertaken in 2006, which
    observed a compliance rate of 80 percent and suspected F&C indicators in about 2
    percent of contracts reviewed, the 2009 review demonstrates steady improvement in
    procurement management under SSA.

40. While the ex-post review found no significant issues, on the basis of the observations,
    MHRD has identified the following areas for further strengthening procurement
    procedures: (i) development at State levels of an MIS system to track all contracts
    with a value greater than USD 20,000; (ii) focused capacity building of accounts staff
    involved in procurement functions in selected States; (iii) greater involvement of
    VECs in procurement activities at the community level through training and capacity-
    building programs; (iv) sharing of States' best practices with regards to bidding
    documents and various templates for bid evaluation, contracts, etc.; and (v) improving
    asset registration of all goods and equipment procured under SSA and maintenance of
    their documentation. These measures have been incorporated into an Action Plan
    included in the Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire accepted by MHRD. Finally, the
    recent revision of the SSA FM&P Manual further strengthens and clarifies
    procurement procedures, removing the option for States to use their own procedures.
    Further progress on FM&P and recommendations of the 11th JRMlMid-Term Review
    would be assessed during the next Joint Review Mission in July 2010.

41. It should be emphasized that a significant amount of SSA funds are allocated directly,
    in small amounts, to literally hundreds of thousands of Village Education Committees
    which have the greatest interest in effective and efficient use of funds to improve their
    children's education. This constitutes effective alignment of incentives, and means


6 MHRD promptly initiated investigations on 6 cases where F&C indicators were observed and satisfactory
responses have been submitted for 4 of them. MHRD and respective State governments have initiated
actions on the other cases, as per provisions of the SSA FM&P Manual.


                                                  15
   that any deviations in procurement procedures would, in almost all cases, involve
   relatively small amounts (e.g. less than USD 10,000). Nonetheless, given the
   challenge of ensuring knowledge and oversight of FMP Manual procedures among so
   many Village Education Committees, the overall procurement risk is still rated as
   "substantial". Many of the mitigation measures are already in place or are suggested
   in revised FM&P Manual.

42. In terms of financial management (FM), considerable effort has been made over the
    past six months by MHRD to improve systems and functioning at all levels.           To
    address outstanding issues, MHRD developed with the States an FM Action Plan
    (FM AP) which targets seven key areas: statutory audit; responsiveness to findings
    from concurrent reviews conducted by an independent agency (Institute of Public
    Auditors of India); internal audit; optimized staffing of accounts personnel and
    capacity-building for new and existing account staff in FM and procurement
    procedures; focus on financial monitoring; and improved maintenance of accounts
    and registers at District and sub-District levels, including tracking of fund releases.
    This FM AP is a positive step, and the task team confirmed during appraisal in
    October 2009 and the Mid-Term Review (which included field visits in 20 districts in
    10 States) in January 2010 that significant progress is being made in its
    implementation. This Mid-Term Review led to an upgrade in the FM rating from
    "moderately unsatisfactory" to "moderately satisfactory", and included a number of
    additional agreements to strengthen FM (e.g. increase in accounts staffing, focus on
    large spending States, enhanced timeliness and coverage of audits and improvements
    in FM as disclosed by FY 09 -10 audit reports) which would be reviewed during
    future JRMs.

43. However, as of January 31, 2010, audit reports covering SSA expenditures during the
    Indian FY2008-09 from eight States and Union Territories, representing less than 5
    percent of SSA's total FY2008-09 expenditures of more than USD 4 billion, were
    overdue. Actions available to IDA in cases like this include delaying Board
    presentation of new projects, unless an exception is made with the authorization of
    the Vice President, OPCS, and the Vice President, Controller (Annex A to BP 10.02).
    The South Asia Region has sought and obtained the appropriate exception. In
    authorizing the exception, the Vice Presidents took note of the fact that the overdue
    audit reports are expected to be submitted by May 31, 2010, an agreed plan for
    monitoring and achieving compliance is in place, and the negotiated legal documents
    for this Additional Financing prohibit IDA financing of any Indian States' SSA
    expenditures for that financial year if the State concerned has not complied with the
    audit report submission requirements set out in the legal documents.

44. Environmental: The expanded and new activities do not raise the environmental
    category of the project nor do they trigger any new safeguard policies. Indeed, a
    lower percentage of SSA resources would be dedicated to civil works during this
    project extension period, while an increased percentage of SSA resources would be
    allocated toward addressing gaps in enrollment, retention and achievement among
    disadvantaged social categories. For the Mid-Term Review, an environmental
    specialist joined the Mission and confirmed adherence to the Bank's environmental

                                            16
   safeguards. The primary recommendations include (i) assessment of maintenance
   needs of classrooms constructed under SSA, and (ii) accelerate the construction of
   girls' toilets and provision of drinking water in all schools.

45. Social: As part of preparation of this Additional Financing an assessment of social
    safeguards in place under SSA II was carried out. The World Bank and DFID
    reviewed a wide range of safeguards information, including: community
    consultations, participation and planning; special financial and infrastructural
    facilities and norms for ST children; targeted programs aimed at improving learning
    outcomes for ST children; monitoring and evaluation of data on access, enrollment,
    attendance, transition, and learning levels of ST children; and disclosure of the Tribal
    Development Plan and grievance redressal mechanisms in place. This exercise
    confirmed that adequate social safeguards are in place.

46. Furthermore, and perhaps more importantly, SSA's POSItIve impact on socially
    disadvantaged populations (children from Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes,
    minorities, and girls) is now firmly documented with evidence from both MHRD and
    independent sources. For example, based on the findings of the independent Public
    Report on Basic Education (PROBE), the proportion of girls who have never enrolled
    in school declined from 21.4 percent in 1996 to just 3.6 percent in 2006, while the
    dropout rate for girls halved over the same period, from 5.3 percent to 2.5 percent.
    The primary enrollment rates for Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Muslim
    children increased from less than 75 percent in 1996 to 94 percent, 89 percent and 95
    percent, respectively, in 2006. This illustrates that SSA has a positive social impact,
    rather than an impact which needs to be mitigated in some way.

47. The additional financing involves two exceptions to Bank policies. The first is
    discussed in paragraph 38 above, where approval of the Executive Directors is sought
    for a waiver, which has been endorsed by the Managing Director, to the requirement
    of referring to the Bank's Procurement Guidelines in the additional financing legal
    documents. The second is discussed in paragraph 43 above, where the Vice President,
    OPCS, and the Vice President and Controller have authorized an exception, under
    Annex A to BP 10.02, to allow Board consideration of the additional financing
    despite audit reports being overdue from eight Indian States covering SSA
    expenditures in FY2008-09 of less than 5 percent of total SSA expenditures for that
    year.


VI. EXPECTED OUTCOMES

48. The proposed additional financing and changes would improve the project's outcome
    indicators and expected outcomes across all four program goals: access, equity,
    retention and quality of elementary education. During appraisal a revised Results
    Framework (Annex I) was prepared in consultation with MHRD and the other DPs
    which details these changes. This includes revised indicators and targets for all four
    goals, and the IDA 15 Core Indicators for primary education (Annex 2).


                                            17
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS

49. The scaled-up activities proposed under this Additional Financing do not present any
    increased risks that could jeopardize the achievement of the project's development
    objective. The same risks identified in the Project Appraisal Document for the
    Second Elementary Education Project, and the same risk mitigation measures, apply.

50. With regard to political, sector policy and institutional risks these are, if anything,
    lower than when the original project was prepared. The passage of the Right to
    Education Act (August 2009) further reduces these risks, as it legally obliges Central
    and State governments to ensure that every child of the age 6 to 14 years has a right
    to free and compulsory education in a neighborhood school till completion of
    elementary education. In addition, State capacities to implement SSA have definitely
    improved over the last two years, with huge increases in expenditures and
    achievement of physical progress targets, particularly in educationally backward
    States. Furthermore, the Thirteenth Finance Commission will, like the Twelfth
    Finance Commission, provide "equalization grants" to all States to help them meet
    their financial obligations implied by SSA and hence macro-economic risks appear
    lower now relative to when the project was initially prepared, despite the global
    economic downturn.

51. The primary outstanding risks remain te chnical and financial mana gement. The
    technical risk remains "moderate" given the inherent difficulties observed in (i)
    improving elementary education retention and completion rates, and (ii) enhancing
    learning outcomes. Improving quality throughout the country requires improving
    teacher availability and performance in over 1.2 million schools with extremely
    diverse learning environments. It has been difficult thus far to observe changes in
    teacher behavior in the classrooms as a result of SSA's teacher training and academic
    support programs. To reduce this technical risk, an evaluation of the effectiveness of
    SSA's teacher training programs is underway which will help to formulate
    appropriate strategies for improved teacher professional development. The evaluation
    of quality improvement interventions by the TC Fund would also help in further
    strengthening classroom processes.

52. Financial management risks remain "substantial". Continued attention to this risk
    from both MHRD and DPs since July 2009 has resulted in development and pro-
    active implementation of the FM AP described above in Section V, but the full results
    of this plan may not be appreciated until subsequent Joint Review Missions in July
    2010 (when States' actions to improve FM staff and training can be assessed) and
    January 2011 (when FY2009-1O Audit Reports will be reviewed). The fact remains
    that SSA is a huge program with expenditures of approximately USD 5 billion per
    year spread across more than 1.2 million schools. To mitigate this risk, MHRD has
    revised the SSA FM&P Manual, reinvigorated quarterly meetings with all State
    Finance Controllers, emphasized to States the importance of strengthening external
    and internal audit procedures and timely submission of audit reports, shared best
    practices in use of electronic banking to speed the flow of funds and monitor their
    usage, and clarified that no SSA advances of funds may be treated as expenditures at

                                           18
   any level. While these are all positive steps, the FM risk remains "substantial" (since
   the inception of IDA's support for SSA in 2004), given the size, scope and
   distribution of SSA expenditures.


VIII. FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING

53. The USD 750 million in additional financing would be offered on credit terms based
    on the framework agreed under the IDA 15 replenishment, subject to the applicable
    commitment fee. It would benefit from the full grace period and be amortized
    independently of the original credit.




                                           19
                        Annex 1 - Key Performance Indicators for SSA II
S.
No           Outcome Indicators                       2005-06               2006-07              2007-08               2008-09
                                                       13.4m                                                             8 m\l
                                                    (independent                                                     (independent
        Reduction in the number of OOSC                survey)                                                          survey)
I
        from 13.4 million to 4.9 million                                   7.6 m (SSA           4.5 m (SSA            2.8 m (SSA
                                                                            household            household             household
                                                                             survey)              survey)               survey)
2       Emolment shares of girls, SCs and
        STs in primary and upper primary
        maintained or increased relative to
        their share in the population at the
        national and state levels. Share of
        Share of girls in population: 47.0%
        Share ofSCs in population: 19.6%
        Share ofSTs in population: 10.5%

2.A     Share of girls in:
        Primary emolment                                47.8%                 48.1%                 48.2%                   48.4%
        Upper Primary emolment                          45.8%                 46.5%                 47.0%                   47.6%
2.B     Share of SC in:
        Primary emolment                                 19.0%                20.1%                 20.1%                   19.8%
        Upper Primary emolment                           19.4%                19.2%                 19.2%                   19.1%
2.C     Share of ST in:
        Primary emolment                                 9.6%                 11.4%                 11.6%                   11.9%
        Upper Primary emolment                           9.3%                 8.8%                  9.2%                    9.6%
3       Attendance rate of students at
        primary and upper primary level
        increases from 70% and 75%,
        respectively, to 85% and 90%
3.A     Student Attendance: Primary                      70%                                                                75.2%
3.B     Student Attendance: Upper Primary                75%                                                                8l.6%
        Retention Rate at primary level
    4                                                    71%                  70.3%                 73.7%                   75.2%
        increases from 71% to 75%
        Transition Rate from primary to
    5   upper primary increases from 83%                 83%                  83.4%                 81.1%                   82.4%
        to 89%\2
                                                      Roun~ I
                                                   learning levels                               Round II
                                                     assessed in                                 Learning
        Learning levels adequately and             Grades 3, 5 and                              assessment
    6                                              7, with testing
        regularly monitored                                                                      applied in
                                                   instruments of                             Grades 3 and 5.
                                                      moderate
                                                       quality
        Improvement in learning levels at            Math: 58%;                                 Math: 62%
    7
        Grade 3                                      Lang: 63%                                  Lang: 68%,
\1: A varIety offactors explam the dIfferent estImates In the number of out-of-school children between the mdependent
and SSA surveys, including the methodology, timing, administration, and quality control. The independent survey is
considered to be more reliable given its sampling methodology.
\2: During appraisal of SSA II in 2007 trend analysis was used project transition rates which proved unrealistic, in part
because of different data sources for baseline and time of appraisal. The rapidly increasing number of Grade 5
graduates as a result of SSA made it difficult to increase both the enrollment and transition rates to upper primary
because of both supply and demand constraints. More positively, Grade 6 enrollment (the first year of upper primary
schooling) increased by an average of 7.6% per year from the baseline period to 2007-08, which is quite significant.




                                                           20
                                                               Annex 2 - Arrangement for Results Monitoring
S.       Outcome                        Baseline                     2009-10                2010-11             2011-12             Frequency and             Data        Responsibility
No.     Indicators                                                                                                                     Report              Collection       for Data
                                                                                                                                                          Instruments      Collection
                                                 Goal I : All children in School / EGS centers / Alternative and Innovative Education Centers
1     Number of         8.1 million children estimated          Reduction in            Reduction in       Reduction in          Annual PMIS Report       Household       States and
      children          Out of School                           number of out of        number of out of   number of out of      disaggregated by         Data and        districts
      aged 6-14 years                                           school children         school children    school children by    States.                  updated
      not               (Independent Sample study               by 1.5 million          by 1.0 million     0.5 million                                    village and
      enrolled in       2009)                                                                                                                             ward register
      School / EGS                                                                                                               Independent Sample
      Centres / AlE                                                                                                              Survey on out of
      Centres                                                                                                                    school children in
                                                                                                                                 2011-12 disaggregated
                                                                                                                                 by States / Gender /
                                                                                                                                 Rural/Urban and
                                                                                                                                 Social Categories of
                                                                                                                                 SC / ST/OBC /
                                                                                                                                 Muslim
                                                                                                                                 Minorities/CWSN
2     Number of         134.1 million at Primary Stage          Enrollment of           Enrollment of      Enrollment of         Annual DISE Report       DISE            NUEPA
      children                                                  children at             children at        children at Primary   disaggregated by
      enrolled in                                               Primary      and        Primary      and   and at Upper          States, gender, SC, ST
      schools                                                   at Upper Primary        at Upper Primary   Primary level and     and Muslim.
                                                                level and in EGS        level and in EGS   in EGS I AlE
                                                                / AlE                   I AlE
                        50.9 million at Upper Primary
                        stage
                        6.48 million in EGS / AlE                                                                                Annual PMIS Report       Programme       States &
                                                                                                                                 disaggregated by         MIS             Districts
                        (DISE 2007-081Program MIS)
                                                                                                                                 States

                        Number of States with                                                                                    Annual DISE Report
                        PS:UPS>2.50:1 are 15                         12 States              10 States            5 States        disaggregated by             DISE        NUEPA
3                                                                                                                                States
                        (DISE 2007-08)                                                                                                                                                     I
                                 ~   - - - - - - - - _ .. -      -----           ----                              ------




                                                                                               21
S.       Outcome                       Baseline                    2009-10            2010-11                2011-12              Frequency and          Data        Responsibility
No.     Indicators                                                                                                                   Report           Collection         for Data
                                                                                                                                                     Instruments        Collection
4     Number of           2.5 million CWSN are enrolled          2.5 million         2.6 million           2.65 million        Annual PMIS Report   PMIS Report      States and       i
      children with       (2008-09)                                                                                            on IE                from Inclusive   Districts
      special needs                                                                                                            disaggregated by     Education for
      (CWSN)                                                                                                                   States               Disabled Unit
      enrolled in
      school or           (2008-09 : PMIS Report from
      alternative         Inclusive Education for
      system              Disabled Unit)
      including home
      based
      education
5     Decline in          3,00,494 additional classrooms                          2,00,000          1,00,494 additional        Annual PMIS Report   PMIS Reports     States &
      shortfall of        required                                                additional        classrooms added           on civil works       from civil       Districts
      number of           (11 th Plan estimates - 2009)                -          classrooms                                   disaggregated by     works unit
      classrooms                                                                  added                                        States
                                                                 Goal II : Bridging gender and social category gaps
6     Girls, as a share   Share of girls in primary           Share of girls in    Share of girls in    Share of girls in      Annual DISE Report   DISE             NUEPA
      of students         schools is 48.22%       (Share of   primary school      primary school       primary school          disaggregated by
      enrolled at         girls in population of 6-10 is      reflects their      reflects their       reflects their share    States
      Primary and         47.90%)                             share in            share in             in population
      Upper Primary                                           population          population
      level.              Share of girls in upper primary     Share of girls in    Share of girls in    Share of girls in      Annual PMIS Report   PMIS Report      States and
                          schools is 46.99%                   primary school      upper primary        upper primary           disaggregated by     from             Districts
                          (Share of girls in population of    reflects their      school reflects      school reflects their   States               Alternative
                          11-13 is 47.40%)                    share in            their share in       share in population                          School Unit.
                                                              population          population
                          (DISE 2007-08)
7     Enrolments of       Share of SC children In             Share ofSC          Share ofSC           Share ofSC              Annual DISE report   DISE             NUEPA            I
      Scheduled           Primary Schools is 19.17%           children in         children in          children in primary     disaggregated by
      Castes &            (Share of SC in population of 6-    primary reflects    primary reflects     reflects their share    States
      Schedule Tribe      10 is 17.60%)                       their share in      their share in       in population
      children reflect                                        population          population




                                                                                          22
S.       Outcome                       Baseline                   2009-10               2010-11               2011-12            Frequency and           Data      Responsibility
No.     Indicators                                                                                                                  Report            Collection     for Data
                                                                                                                                                     Instruments    Collection
      their shares in     Share of SC children in Upper       Share of SC children in upper primary reflects their share in
      6-14 age group      Primary Schools is 20.08%           population
      population in       (Share of SC in population of 11-
      Primary and         l3 is 17.10%)
      Upper Primary       Share of ST children in             Share of ST children in primary reflects their share in
      Schools             Primary Schools is 11.60%           population
                          (Share of ST in population of 6-
                          10 is 9.34%)

                          Share of ST children                Share of ST children in upper primary reflects their share in
                          In upper Primary Schools is         population
                          9.23%
                          (Share of ST in population of 11-
                          l3 is 8.56%)
                          (DISE 2007-08)
                                                                            Goal III: Universal Retention
8     Transition rates                 81.13%                       82%                  83.5%                 85.0%          Annual DISE Report     DISE          NUEPA
      from Primary                                                                                                            disaggregated by
      to Upper                                                                                                                States, Gender, SC ,
      Primary             (DISE 2007-08)                                                                                      ST and Muslims7
9     Retention at                      73.7%                       75%                  78.0%                 80.0%
      Primary level

                          (DISE 2007-08)
10    Retention at                     38.37%                      40.0%                 42.5%                 45.0%
      Elementary          (For States where Elementary
      Level               Stage is Class I to Class VIII)

                                                                              -- ----




           7   Social Category desegregation will be made available from 2009-10

                                                                                           23
S.       Outcome                      Baseline                     2009-10               2010-11             2011-12              Frequency and              Data         Responsibility
No.     Indicators                                                                                                                   Report               Collection        for Data
                                                                                                                                                         Instruments       Collection
                                      56.35%                        (52%)                64.0%                70.0%
                         (For States where Elementary
                         Cycle is Class I to Class VII)

                         (DISE 2007-08)
II    Gross                          91.5%                                                92.5                 93.0
      Completion
      Rati0 8 (Primary                                                 -
      level)
                         (DISE 2007-08)
12    Improvement in                86.75 %                                              92.0%                95.0%           Annual DISE Report             DISE             NUEPA
      % Schools with                                                                                                          disaggregated by
      Drinking water                                                  -                                                       States
      facility
13    Improvement in                  62.67%                                             73.0%                  78.0%
      % Schools with                                                  -
      Common toilets
14    Improvement in                    40%                                              50.0%                55.0%
      % Schools with     Schools having separate toilet               -
      separate toilets   for girls at primary level.
      for girls.
                                       60%
                          Schools having separate toilet                                 80.0%                90.0%
                         for girls at upper primary level             -
                         (DISE 2007-08)                                      ------_.-




           8 Primary completion rate is the total number of students regardless of age in the last grade of primary school (grade V), minus the number of repeaters in that
           grade, divided by the number of children of official age for completing primary level (age II, RGI projections)

                                                                                           24
                                                                     Goal IV Education of Satisfactory Quality                                                                           I

15   Provision of quality inputs to improve learning levels                                                                                                                              I



     (i) Teacher         (i) Pupil Teacher Ratio at           Maintain PTR below 40: I both at Primary and Upper            Annual DISE Report      DISE              NUEPA
     Availability        Primary Level Is 34:1 and at         Primary level                                                 disaggregated by
                         Upper Primary level is 31:1                                                                        States and Districts
                         (ii) States with average PTR >            3 States           2 States              o States
                         40 at Primary level is 4
                         (iii) States with average PTR >           3 States           2 States              o States
                         40 at Upper Primary level is 4
                         (iv) Districts with PTR>40 are                             100 Districts         75 Districts
                         151 at elementary level                      -
                         (v)% of Schools with PTR>                                      28%                   25%
                         40:1 is 33%                                  -
                         (vi) Shortfall of number of                              1.5 lakh teachers     1.2 lakh teachers   Annual PMIS             PMIS              States &
                         Teachers                                                     recruited             recruited       Reports                                   Districts
                         (Baseline - 3.2 lakh teachers)               -                                                     disaggregated by
                                                                                                                            States
                         (PMIS 2009-10)
     (ii) Availability   98% eligible students received       Eligible students   Eligible students   Eligible students     Annual PMIS             Program MIS       States and
     of Teaching         free text books.                     receiving free      receiving free      receiving free        Reports                                   Districts
     Learning                                                 textbooks           textbooks           textbooks             disaggregated by
     Materials                                                                                                              States
                         (PMIS 2008-09)                                                                                     Sample District         MI Reports        Monitoring
                                                                                                                            Reports - six monthly                     Institutes / Gol
                         93% teachers received TLM                 >95%                >95%                  >95%           Annual QMT Report       QMTReport         NCERT
                         grant.                                                                                             disaggregated by
                                                                                                                            States
                         (2008-09 PMIS)                                                                                     Annual PMIS             Program MIS       States and
                                                                                                                            Reports                                   Districts
                                                                                                                            disaggregated by
                                                                                                                            States
                         Percent of schools using                                 Percent of           Percent of schools   Sample District         MIs Sample        MI
                         material in addition to                                  schools using       using workbooks /     Report - six monthly    District Report
                         textbooks such as workbooks I                -           workbooks /         worksheets
                         worksheets                                               worksheets
                         (Baseline as per Plan 2010-11)

                                                                                          25
                        Percent of schools displaying                           Percent of          Percent of schools                                                      I

                        teaching learning material                              schools             displaying TLM
                        related to language I EVS                   -           displaying TLM                                                                              I

                        science I maths I social science I
                        CAL
16   Process indicators on quality
     (i) Training
     (a) Teachers                     78%                         80%                 82%                  85%            Annual PMIS Reports    Program MIS   States and
                        Teachers received in-service                                                                      disaggregated by                     Districts
                        training against annual target.                                                                   States

                       Training of Educational                                  All States to       All States to         Annual PMIS Reports    Program MIS   States and
                       Administrators from State to                             provide training    provide training to   disaggregated by                     Districts
                       Block level                                  -           to educational      educational           States
                                                                                administrators      administrators
     (b) Community      Development of training                                 50% States to       100% States to        Annual PMIS Reports    Program MIS   States and
     Training           Modules focusing on School                  -           develop training    develop training      disaggregated by                     Districts
                        Development Plan                                        modules             modules               States
                        Number ofVEC/SMCIPTA                                    Number of VEC       Number ofVEC          Annual PMIS Reports    Program MIS   States and
                        members trained (4 million)                             members trained     members trained (4    disaggregated by                     Districts
                                                                    -           (4 million)         million)              States
                       (2008-09 : PMIS)
     (iii) Teacher     (a)      BRCs       undertaking       Improvement in      Improvement in       Improvement in      Annual PMIS Reports    Program MIS   States and
      Support &        residential teacher training on       functionality of    functionality of     functionality of    disaggregated by                     Districts
     Academic          monthly basis                              BRCs                BRCs                 BRCs           States
     Supervision
                       (b) Number of school visits                               Improvement in      Improvement in       Sample District        MIs Sample    MI
                       undertaken by BRCIBRPs                                      number of        number of schools     Report - six monthly   District
                       during previous year                         -               schools                                                      Report
                       (Baseline as per State plan)

                        (c) Number of school visits                              Improvement in      Improvement in       Sample District        MIs Sample    MI
                        undertaken by CRC / CRP                     -              number of        number of schools     Report - six monthly   District
                        during previous year     --
                                                                                    schools                                                      Report




                                                                                       26
                     (d) 96% CRC and 100% BRC           Improvement in   Improvement in      Improvement in     QMT IPMIS - Annual        QMT            NCERT/ States
                     are functional.                     percentage of    percentage of    percentage of BRC                              ReportJPMIS    and District
                                                          BRC/CRC          BRC/CRC          / CRC functional    Independent study in
                                                          functional       functional                           20011-12 on
                                                                                                                effectiveness ofBRC/
                                                                                                                CRC in academic           Independent    Department of
                                                                                                                support. * Extent on-     sample study   SE&L, GoI
                                                                                                                site support              commissioned
                                                                                                                * Quantum of training     by GO! for
                                                                                                                given by BRC/CRC          select major
                                                                                                                                          States
(iv) Classroom       Time-on-Task study                                                     Repeat Time on      Independent study in      Independent    Department of
Practices            undertaken in 2007-08 in                                              Task Study in        2011-12 in select         sample study   SE&L, GoI
                     selected major States on time                                         2011-12 to track     states on time spent in   commissioned
                     spent in classrooms on                    -                -          improvement          classrooms on             by GO! for
                     teaching/learning activities                                                               teaching/leaming          select major
                                                                                                                activities                States
(v) Student's        Number of States Moving to        50% States to     65% States to     80% States to        Annual PMIS Reports       PMIS           States and
Learning             Continuous and Comprehensive      move to CCE       move to CCE       move to CCE          disaggregated by          program        Districts
Assessment           Evaluation (CCE)                                                                           States

(vi) Attendance
Rates
(a) Student          Student Attendance at primary     Improvement in    Improvement in     Improvement in      Annual QMT Reports        QMTReports     NCERT
                     and upper primary                 student           student           student attendance   disaggregated by
                     (Baseline from 2009-10 Study) 9   attendance by 2   attendance by 2   both primary &       States
                                                       percent point     percent point     upper primary to
                                                       from baseline     from baseline     reach at least 85%
                                                                                                                Sample District           MIs Sample     MI
                                                                                                                Report - six monthly      District
                                                                                                                                          Report
                                                                                                                Independent Sample        Independent    Department of
                                                                                                                Study on student          Sample Study   SE&L, GoI
                                                                                                                attendance to be          commissioned
                                                                                                                repeated in 2009-10 &     by GOI.
                                                                                                                then in 2011-12

     9   Baseline will be available by July 2010.

                                                                                27
     (b) Teacher         Teacher Attendance at primary     Increase in        Increase in       Increase in Teacher   Annual PMIS Reports     Program MIS    States and
                         and at upper primary              Teacher            Teacher           Attendance to 90%     disaggregated by                       Districts
                         (Baseline from 2009-10 Study)     Attendance to      Attendance to     at both primary and   States
                         10
                                                           85% at both        90% at both       upper primary level
                                                           primary and        primary and
                                                           upper primary      upper primary
                                                           level              level
                                                                                                                      Independent Sample      Independent    Department of
                                                                                                                      Study on teacher        sample study   SE &L, Gol
                                                                                                                      attendance to be        commissioned
                                                                                                                      repeated in 2009-10 &   by GOT.
                                                                                                                      then in 2011-12
17   Accountability      SMCs to have 3/4 members                               %ofSMCs               100%            Sample District         MIs Sample     MI
     to the              from parents and at least 50%                                                                Report - six monthly    District
     community           members would be women                   -                                                                           Report
                         (Baseline as per AWP&B 2011-
                         12)
                         % of SMCs prepared Schools                             %ofSMCs                80%
                         Development Plans
                         (Baseline as per AWP&B 2011-
                                                                  -
                         12)
18   National            Learning levels for class III                        Third Round of    eExpected            For Class III in 2009-   NCERT's        NCERT
     student                                                                    Class III in      Learning levels 10                          National
     achievement                                                                 2010-11          for Class III to                            Learning
     level outcomes                                                                               increase and                                Achievement
                                                                                                e Dissemination of Third Round                Surveys
                                                                                                  results to States  outcomes for Class III
                                                                                                                     in 2010 - 2011
                         Learning levels for class V        Round III for        Expected         Dissemination of   Round III outcomes
                                                           Class V in 2009-   Learning levels      results to States for Class V in 2009-10
                                                                  10           for Class V to
                                                                                  increase
                         Learning levels for class VII 1                                         Third Round of       Round III Assessment
                         VIII                                                                    Class VIINIII in     survey for class
                                                                                                     2010-11          VIINIII in 2010-11                                     i




         10   Baseline will be available by July 2010.

                                                                                     28
