Report No. PID11544
Project name                     Peru-Lima Water Rehabilitation...
and Management Project (Supplemental)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Water
Project ID                       P081834
Borrower                         Government of Peru
Implementing agency              SEDAPAL
Planta La Atarjea
Autopista Ramiro Priale No. 210 - El Agustino
Lima 10 - Peru
Contact person: Ricardo Garcia Legal
Tel: 511-317-3000
Fax: 511-362-5161
Email: rgarcia@sedapal.com.pe
Environmental category           B
Date this PID prepared           January 8, 2003
Project appraisal date           December 10, 2002
Project Board date               February 13, 2003
Background
The Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project was approved by the
Board on November 22, 1994. The estimated total project cost at appraisal was
US$306 million, of which US$150 million would be provided by the Bank, US$76
million by JBIC (ex-OECF) and US$80 million from SEDAPAL's own resources. The
Loan Agreement became effective on August 31, 1995 and the Project has
received either satisfactory or highly satisfactory ratings during the course
of its implementation. The original closing date of June 30, 2001, was
extended twice by a total of one and half years as a direct result of an IMF
Agreement that imposed annual investment ceilings on all public agencies and
consequently retarded project execution during the last three years. More
recently, the amended closing date of December 31st 2002, has been extended by
a further six months to allow for the submission of a request for additional
financing.
The original project had the following main objectives: (a) rehabilitation of
water supply and sanitation networks and of water wells; (b) promotion of
water conservation through metering, conjunctive use of groundwater and
surface water; (c) expansion of services to the urban poor in the peri-urban
slums of Lima (pueblos j6venes); and (d) institutional support to improve
SEDAPAL's performance in terms of efficiency, service quality and financial
sustainability. Regarding components (a), (b), and (d) the project has largely
met or exceeded the targets that were originally set.
Regarding (c) the service expansion component, the objective was to expand
and improve services to 600,000 residents of the pueblos j6venes; providing



improved service to 300,000 and first time service to a further 300,000.
Since regulations in place at the time did not permit SEDAPAL to build the
secondary distribution networks in the pueblos j6venes, responsibility for
achieving this key objective of the original Bank project was divided between
SEDAPAL and FONAVI. SEDAPAL undertook the extension of the trunk water mains
towards the pueblos j6venes, with finance from the network expansion
component of the Bank project, at a total cost of US$40 million or 27t of the
original project value. Meanwhile, the secondary networks needed to connect
the primary infrastructure to the local residents, were separately funded by
the housing finance agency, FONAVI, which lent money to local residents who
then contracted the construction of the works. Through this mechanism,
services were extended to 170,000 local residents. However, in the year
2000,1 FONAVI was dissolved due to an accumulation of around US$1 billion of
bad debts, and was therefore no longer able to provide financing to the
remaining 130,000 residents that had originally been targeted for first-time
service under the project. As a result, only about 60t of the original target
population has been served, while SEDAPAL has been left with significantly
under-utilized capacity in the corresponding primary networks.
Objectives
The additional financing will be used to meet the original service expansion
objectives of the project by extending water and sanitation services to the
remaining 130,000 people originally targeted in the peri-urban slums (pueblos
j6venes) of Lima.
Description
This additional financing will provide resources to finance the expansion of
water and sanitation services to the pueblos j6venes located in the area of
influence of the primary networks that were already financed under Part C of
the original project (Network Expansion Component). As envisaged in the
original project, these services will benefit the Districts of Carabayllo,
Comas, and Puente Piedra, in the northern cone of the city, the Districts of
Villa Maria del Triunfo and Villa El Salvador in the southern cone of the
city, and the Districts of Ate-Vitarte and San Juan de Lurigancho in the
eastern cone of the city. The works will be executed within a three and a
half year period, extending the closing date of the project to December 31st,
2006.
The expansion of services under the additional financing will continue to
follow the general procedures described in Annex 17 of the Staff Appraisal
Report, while incorporating the lessons of experience during project
implementation to date. A facilitator (generally an NGO) will be used to
promote the project in the beneficiary communities, assist in the formation
of a community water and sanitation Committee, and support the communities in
selecting an appropriate technological solution, as well as understanding the
cost implications, and developing a detailed design of the selected solution.
Thereafter the execution of the works will be tendered to a contractor, and
supervised by the facilitator. Depending on the nature of the system, and the
wishes of the community, the Committee will take over some or all aspects of
operation and maintenance, but always with appropriate technical support from
SEDAPAL. Wherever this takes place, a Community agreement will be signed
between SEDAPAL and the water and sanitation committee.
- 2 -



To accommodate the differing economic, topographical, and urban
characteristics of the beneficiary communities, the project will offer a
choice based on two different levels of service differentiated by cost. In
terms of water, this will mean either a private tap in the household or a
public tap designed to serve groups of 10 dwellings. Irrespective of the
choice made by the community, SEDAPAL will build a secondary distribution
network capable of supporting individual private connections for all
households, to ensure that the community will have the option of eventually
upgrading as its economic circumstances improved. In terms of sanitation, the
communities will again be offered a choice between ventilated dry pit
latrines, or appropriately designed sewerage networks. Based on recent
project experience, an overall investment ceiling of US$800 per household
(including both water and sanitation) will be applied.
Loan financing
The overall cost of the project is US$29.4 million. The World Bank will
provide financing of US$20 million, and SEDAPAL will provide co-financing of
US$9.4 million.
Project implementation
The implementing agency will be the Lima water utility, SEDAPAL (Servicio de
Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima).
Sustainability.
There are two important issues regarding the sustainability of the project
investments: (i) the financial sustainability of the water utility SEDAPAL;
and (ii) the on-going operation and maintenance of the water and sanitation
services in the pueblos j6venes in cases where a communal solution has been
adopted (such as public stand pipes).
During the period of implementation of the original project, SEDAPAL has made
considerable strides in improving its financial sustainability. In accordance
with norms issued by the regulatory agency SUNASS, SEDAPAL has gradually
raised its tariffs since 1995 to full average cost levels compatible with
economic and financial sustainability, and is expected to maintain these
levels for the foreseeable future.
The sustainability of any communal services (such as public stand pipes)
provided to the pueblos j6venes will be addressed by the creation of
community water and sanitation Committees. The Committees will take varying
degrees of responsibility for managing, operating, and maintaining the
secondary networks, billing the local community and paying SEDAPAL for the
bulk supply of water, depending on the nature of the systems installed and
the preferences of the community. This institutional model has been applied
with considerable success in other pueblos j6venes, because it builds on the
relatively high levels of social capital and organizational capacity that
exist within these neighborhoods. Nevertheless, experience has shown that it
is desirable to back-up these Committees with technical support from SEDAPAL,
including regular site visits to identify any problems with the operation of
the system. SEDAPAL has established a special internal unit for this purpose,
and formal agreements will be signed between SEDAPAL and the Committees to
clarify the commitments and obligations of both parties. Water supplied by
SEDAPAL to the pueblos j6venes will be charged at reduced 'social tariff'
rates, which are a fraction of what residents currently pay to receive water
-3 -



from private tankers.
Implementation.
Project implementation arrangements will remain the same as in the original
project, with SEDAPAL overseeing project implementation through its Project
Implementation Unit. The project implementation manual, suitably updated,
will continue to be used as the support for all project procedures.
Poverty category
The project clearly qualifies as a program of targeted interventions to the
poor, given that all the resources will be dedicated to financing the
expansion of water and sanitation services in peri-urban slums of Lima. The
typical family income in the pueblos j6venes ranges between US$130 to US$180,
equivalent to less than US$1 per capita per day, and it has been estimated
that around two thirds of the family budget is spent on meeting basic
nutritional requirements.
Currently, 1.1 million of these slum dwellers lack access to safe water, and
1.3 million to lack access to basic sanitation. The absence of adequate water
and sanitation services exacts a heavy burden from these families. Most of
them currently pay around US$2.00 per cubic meter for water from tankers;
about eight times the price charged by SEDAPAL for piped water, and are often
forced to carry the water across considerable distances and gradients from
the tanker supply points to their homes. As a result, water consumption is
very low (15 to 30 liters per capita per day), and the water consumed is
often unsafe, leading to a high incidence of diarrhea and cholera in the
metropolitan area. The project will ensure that these families receive
potable water, and allow them to raise their consumption towards 50 liters
per capita per day. Moreover, the project will provide hygienic low cost
sanitation, for families that currently have no alternative for safe disposal
of wastewater.
Environmental aspects
The original project is classified as Category B under the Bank's
environmental guidelines, and an Environmental Impact Assessment
incorporating the network expansion component (Part C) was carried out at the
time of appraisal. The additional financing is also categorized as a B, as no
major environmental impacts are expected. The only issues that arise are
those associated with the construction of the works. To mitigate this effect,
all publics works contracts issued by SEDAPAL will incorporate environmental
guidelines for constructors; which is in any case the standard practice of
the company. The guidelines include rules on chance archeological finds,
disposal of construction waste in pre-approved landfills, communication with
local communities, pedestrian safety, dust and noise abatement measures, etc.
These guidelines were reviewed by Bank environmental specialists, and have
been annexed to this document. Although expansion of wastewater service to
the poor areas is expected to lead to an increase in waste water collection,
the incremental amount is negligible; no more than 0.1 cubic meters per
second, relative to total flows of 20 cubic meters per second for the city as
a whole. Overall, the project has significant positive environmental impacts
by improving sanitary conditions in the pueblos j6venes.
Contact:
Vivien Foster
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
-4-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel.:202 458 9574
Fax:202 522 3552
Email: vfoster@worldbank.org
For information on other project-related documents, contact:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel.: (+1-202) 458-5454
Fax: (+1-202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 5 -



Annex 1
Secci6n 1500?Instalaciones Preliminares para Construcci6n y Controles
Ambientales
(Section 1500?Preliminary Installations for Environmental Construction and
Control)
See Annex 1 pdf file.
- 6 -



Annex 2
Secci6n 1800?Controles Ambientales Adicionales
(Section 1800?Additional Environmental Controls)
See Annex 2 pdf file.
- 7-



Annex 3
Condiciones del Contrato: Lista de Clausulas
(Contract Conditions: List of Clauses)
See Annex 3 pdf file.
- 8 -



Annex 4
Contrataci6n de Obras Menores a Precios Unitarios
(Sample Construction Contract)
See Annex 4 pdf file.
9
- 9-



