Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7160-PE 
(Combined with related Loan No. 3811 PE) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Loan Agreement and Project 
Agreement
 
(Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project) 
 
amongst 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE LIMA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
Dated March 12, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7160-PE 
(Combined with related Loan No. 3811 PE) 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
LOAN AGREEMENT AND PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 12, 2004 amongst REPUBLIC OF PERU (the 
Borrower), SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE LIMA 
(SEDAPAL) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Bank have entered into a Loan Agreement 
(Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project) dated February 2, 1995 (the Loan 
Agreement), as amended, for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (the Project); 
(B) the Bank and SEDAPAL have entered into a Project Agreement (Lima Water 
Rehabilitation and Management Project) dated February 2, 1995 (the Project Agreement), 
as amended, for the purpose of carrying out or supervising the Project with the 
Borrower’s assistance; 
(C) the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional assistance in 
support of Part C (Service Expansion) of the Project by increasing the amount made 
available under the Loan Agreement by an amount equal to twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, including the new terms introduced pursuant to this Agreement 
(as set forth in Article II below), and the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Amendments to the Loan Agreement 
Section 2.01. 
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read 
in its entirety as follows: 
“Section 1.01.  The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995, with the modification set forth below (the SCL General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement and apply in respect of the LIBOR-
based SCL Portion of the Initial Loan; and wherever used in this Agreement, the 
term "General Conditions" shall, in respect of the LIBOR-based SCL Portion of 
the Initial Loan, be deemed to refer to the SCL General Conditions: 
 
In paragraph 4 of Section 2.01, the definition of the term ‘Loan’ is 
hereby replaced to read as follows: “Loan” means the LIBOR-based SCL Portion 
of the Initial Loan;”. 
 
Section 2.02. 
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read 
in its entirety as set forth in Annex 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
A new Section 1.03 is hereby added after the new Section 1.02 
of the Loan Agreement to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.03.  The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements set forth in the Schedule to the Bank's Provisions for 
Conversion of Currency Pool Loans, dated September 1, 1996, with the 
modification set forth below (the SCP General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement and apply in respect of the SCP Portion of the Initial 
Loan; and wherever used in this Agreement, the term "General Conditions" shall, 
in respect of the SCP Portion of the Initial Loan, be deemed to refer to the SCP 
General Conditions: 
 
In paragraph 4 of Section 2.01, the definition of the term ‘Loan’ is 
hereby replaced to read as follows: “Loan” means the SCP Portion of the Initial 
Loan;”. 
 
Section 2.04. 
A new Section 1.04 is hereby added after the new Section 1.03 
of the Loan Agreement to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.04.  The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans of the Bank dated September 1, 
1999, with the modifications set forth below (the FSL General Conditions), 
Page  4
-
3
-
constitute an integral part of this Agreement, and whenever used in this 
Agreement, the term “General Conditions” shall, in respect of the FSL Loan, be 
deemed to refer to the FSL General Conditions: 
(a) 
In paragraph 35 of Section 2.01, the term ‘Loan’ means the FSL 
Loan; 
(b) 
Seven new paragraphs are added after paragraph 48 in Section 
2.01 of the FSL General Conditions to read as follows: 
49. 
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement dated 
March 12, 2004 entered into amongst the Borrower, SEDAPAL and the 
Bank for purposes of providing additional assistance in support of Part C 
of the Project. 
50. 
‘FSL Effective Date’ means the date on which the 
Amending Agreement shall enter into effect as provided in Section 4.03 
of said agreement. 
51. 
‘FSL Loan’ means the loan provided for in Section 2.01 
(a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement. 
52. 
‘Initial Loan’ means the loan provided for in Section 
2.01 (a) (i) of the Loan Agreement. 
 
53. 
‘LIBOR-based SCL Effective Date’ means July 21, 
1997. 
 
54. 
‘LIBOR-based SCL Portion of the Initial Loan’ means 
the portion of the loan amount referred to in Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of the 
Loan Agreement. 
 
55. 
‘SCP Portion of the Initial Loan’ means the portion of 
the loan amount referred to in Section 2.01 (b) (i) of the Loan 
Agreement.”; and 
(c) 
Paragraph (b) of Section 3.02 is hereby amended to read in its 
entirety as follows: 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay a commitment charge as 
specified in the Loan Agreement on the unwithdrawn principal amount 
of the FSL Loan. Such commitment charge shall accrue from a date sixty 
days after the date of the Amending Agreement to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan 
Account in respect of the FSL Loan or shall be cancelled.”. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.05. 
Section 2.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read in its 
entirety as follows: 
“Section 2.01.  (a) The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower: (i) various 
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000) (the Initial Loan) being the sum of 
withdrawals of the proceeds of said amount, with each withdrawal valued by the 
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Sections 2.02 through 2.07 of the Loan Agreement and the letter 
from the Bank to the Borrower of July 31, 1997 attaching the amortization 
schedules for the two portions of the Initial Loan referred to in paragraph (b) 
below; and (ii) an amount equal to twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000) (the 
FSL Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedules 5 and 
6
to this Agreement, as such FSL Loan may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 7 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in paragraph (a) (i) 
above, the Initial Loan shall consist of two portions:  (i) an amount in various 
currencies that shall  have an aggregate value equivalent to the sum of (A) the 
total amount of the Initial Loan withdrawn as of the LIBOR-based SCL Effective 
Date; plus (B) the total amount of the Initial Loan canceled as of the LIBOR-
based SCL Effective Date, plus the total amount of special commitments entered 
into by the Bank in respect of the Initial Loan and outstanding as of the LIBOR-
based SCL Effective Date (the SCP Portion of the Initial Loan); and (ii) an 
amount in the Single Currency equivalent to the balance of the Initial Loan as of 
the LIBOR-based SCL Effective Date, as reasonably determined by the Bank 
(the LIBOR-based SCL Portion of the Initial Loan).”. 
 
Section 2.06. 
Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read in its 
entirety as follows: 
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.”. 
Section 2.07. 
Section 2.07 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read in its 
entirety as follows: 
“Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
SCP Portion of the Initial Loan and the LIBOR-based SCL Portion of the Initial 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedules set forth in a letter from the 
Bank to the Borrower dated July 31, 1997.”. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.08. 
The term “Ministry of Presidency” referred to in Section 3.01 (d) 
of the Loan Agreement is hereby replaced with the term “Ministry of Housing, 
Construction and Sanitation”. 
Section 2.09. 
The table in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is amended as set 
forth in the Annex 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.10. 
A new paragraph 5 is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement, to read in its entirety as follows: 
“5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) Categories (1) (b) and (3) (b) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless and until the 
Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end fee referred to 
in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (b)  payments made 
with regard to the FSL Loan, for expenditures prior to the date of the 
Amending Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $2,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1)(b) 
and (3) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 above on account of payments 
made for expenditures incurred before the date of the Amending 
Agreement but after January 2, 2003.”. 
Section 2.11. 
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted and shall be 
deliberately left blank. 
Section 2.12. 
Two new schedules are added to the Loan Agreement and 
numbered as Schedules 5 and 6, which schedules shall read as set forth in Annexes 3 and 
4
to this Agreement, respectively. 
Section 2.13. 
Part C of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read 
in its entirety as follows: 
“Part C
:
Service Expansion
Expansion of the water supply and sewerage systems to cover about 600,000 
people in low-income areas (
pueblos jóvenes
)
through the construction of primary and 
secondary networks, including, 
inter alia
,
the construction of transmission lines, pumping 
stations, reservoirs, interceptors and wastewater treatment plants.”. 
Section 2.14. 
Paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is 
amended to read in its entirety as follows: “notwithstanding the definition of the terms 
“Loan” and “Loan Account” in the respective General Conditions referred to in Sections 
1.01, 1.03 and 1.04 of this Agreement, (a) the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $2,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; (b) the term “Loan” 
Page  7
-
6
-
means a combination of the LIBOR-based SCL Portion of the Initial Loan, the SCP 
Portion of the Initial Loan and/or the FSL Loan, as the case may be; and (c) the term 
“Loan Account” means the account or accounts opened by the Bank on its books in the 
name of the Borrower to which the amounts of the LIBOR-based SCL Portion of the 
Initial Loan, the SCP Portion of the Initial Loan and/or the FSL Loan are credited.”. 
ARTICLE III 
 
Amendments to the Project Agreement 
 
Section 3.01. 
The term “Ministry of Presidency” referred to in Section 2.01 (e) 
of the Project Agreement is hereby replaced with the term “Ministry of Housing, 
Construction and Sanitation”. 
Section 3.02. 
A new Section 2.11 is hereby added to the Project Agreement to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.11. (a) SEDAPAL shall, prior to the carrying out of any 
construction of a secondary network under Part C of the Project for the benefit of 
a
local community-based organization located in a low-income area (
pueblo 
joven
), enter into an agreement (the Community Agreement) with said local 
community-based organization, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including 
inter alia
,
the obligation of: (i) SEDAPAL to: (A) finance with part of 
the proceeds of the Loan a portion of the total cost of said network; (B) procure 
the works and consultants’ services required for the construction of said network 
in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement; 
and (C) construct said network; and (ii) said community-based organization to: 
(A) inform SEDAPAL of its choice of technological option between public 
standpipes or private house connections; and (B) in case public standpipes are 
installed, manage the distribution and billing of water. 
(b) 
(i)  SEDAPAL shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Community Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of SEDAPAL, the Borrower (notwithstanding that the Borrower is not a 
party to a Community Agreement) and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SEDAPAL shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any 
Community Agreement or any provision thereof.”. 
Section 3.03. 
The aggregate amount of $42,900,000 referred to in Part C.2 of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement is hereby replaced by the amount of 
$70,000,000. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 4.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that: 
(a) 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower and SEDAPAL have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental and corporate action, as the case may be; and 
(b) 
the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly amended to reflect 
the Borrower’s transfer of the proceeds of the FSL Loan to SEDAPAL. 
Section 4.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of: 
(a) 
the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms; 
(b) 
SEDAPAL, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, SEDAPAL and is legally binding upon 
SEDAPAL in accordance with its terms; and 
(c) 
the Borrower and SEDAPAL, that the amendment to the First Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement (referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement) has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SEDAPAL and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and SEDAPAL in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 4.03. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Bank shall dispatch to the Borrower and SEDAPAL of the Bank’s notice 
of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 4.01 of this Agreement. 
Section 4.04. 
If the conditions set forth in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this 
Agreement have not been met by June 10, 2004, this Agreement and all obligations of the 
parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Bank establishes a later date for the purposes 
of this Section.  If this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Loan Agreement and Project Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Agreement had not been executed. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respect
ive names in the City of Lima, Perú, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/Pedro Pablo Kuckzinsky 
Authorized Representative 
 
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE 
 
Y
ALCANTARILLADO DE LIMA 
 
By /s/Elmer Rivasplata 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/Marcelo Giugale 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  10
-
9
-
ANNEX 1 
“Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the SCL General Conditions, the SCP General Conditions and the FSL General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Community Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(b) 
"Concessionaire" means the company to be established under Peruvian 
law to whom SEDAPAL may have awarded a concession for the provision of water 
supply and sewerage services in the Lima Metropolitan Area; 
 
(c) 
"Concession Contract" means the contract to be entered into, if the case, 
between SEDAPAL and the Concessionaire and such term shall include all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Concession Contract; 
 
(d) 
"First Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and SEDAPAL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
 
(e) 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower and SEDAPAL 
starting on January 1 and ending on December 31; 
 
(f) 
"Implementation Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be approved by SEDAPAL pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; such manual 
to contain norms and procedures for Project implementation and supervision including: 
(i) the procedures and criteria to select the investments under Part C of the Project; (ii) 
the disbursement and procurement procedures to be followed by SEDAPAL during 
Project implementation, including standard disbursement forms and standard bidding 
documents; (iii) the terms of reference of the consultants to be employed in the PMU; and 
(iv) norms and procedures related to engineering, communication, reporting and 
administrative matters; 
 
(g) 
"Lima Metropolitan Area" means the Province of Lima and the 
Constitutional Province of Callao; 
 
(h) 
"Management Agreement" means an annual agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, to be entered into between the Borrower, through its Ministry of Housing, 
Construction and Sanitation, and SEDAPAL and which agreement shall provide for the 
management and supervision of SEDAPAL's operations including the commitment of 
Page  11
-
10 - 
SEDAPAL to achieve targets concerning its operational efficiency, physical activity, 
commercial efficiency, financial management, productivity and service quality; and 
"Management Agreements" means collectively all of such agreements; 
 
(i) 
"PCC" means a project consultative committee to be established by 
SEDAPAL pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement, and which committee shall be 
responsible for providing guidance to the PMU (as hereinafter defined) and to ensure 
proper coordination between the execution of the Project and other investments and 
activities of SEDAPAL; 
 
(j) 
"PMU" means a project management unit to be established by 
SEDAPAL pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement for the management and 
supervision of the Project; 
 
(k) 
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of 
the Project Agreement; 
 
(l) 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 
SEDAPAL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(m) 
"Regulations" means the regulations referred to in Section 6.01 (f) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(n) 
"Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to be entered into, if the case, between SEDAPAL and the Concessionaire, 
providing for the transfer of Loan proceeds from SEDAPAL to the Concessionaire and 
the latter's responsibilities in the implementation of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules, including performance 
plans and monitoring indicators, and agreements supplemental to the Second Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement; 
 
(o) 
"SEDAPAL Bylaws" means the bylaws of SEDAPAL approved by the 
Borrower's Supreme Decree (
Decreto Supremo
)
No. 048-81- VI dated December 15, 
1981 and published in the Borrower's official gazette (
El Peruano
)
on
December 20, 
1981, as such bylaws are amended from time to time; 
 
(p) 
"Services Law" means the Borrower's 
Ley General de Servicios de
 
Saneamiento
,
No. 26338 dated July 15, 1994, and published in the Borrower's official 
gazette (
El Peruano
)
on
July 24, 1994; 
 
(q) 
"SNSS" means the Borrower's National Superintendency for Sanitation 
Services (
Superintendencia Nacional de Servicios de Saneamiento
); 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
(r) 
"SNSS Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
entered into between SEDAPAL and SNSS providing for the participation and 
responsibilities of SNSS in the implementation of Part D.1 (d) of the Project; and 
 
(s) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.”. 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
ANNEX 2
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Initial Loan and FSL Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Initial Loan and FSL Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Initial 
Loan and FSL Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Initial Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent
)
Amount of the 
FSL Loan 
(Expressed in 
Dollars
)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Works 
  (a) under Part A, 
101,700,000) 
 
100% of foreign 
 
B
and C of the 
) 
 
expenditures and 
 
Project 
) 
 
66% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(b) under Part C 
17,500,000) 
100% of foreign 
 
of
the Project 
) 
expenditures and 
 
66%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) Goods 
  under Parts A, B, 
15,000,000) 
 
100% of foreign 
  C and D of the 
) 
 
expenditures and 
 
Project 
) 
 
66% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) Technical Assistance 
  (a) under Parts A, B, 
33,300,000) 
100% of foreign 
 
C
and D of the 
) 
expenditures and 
 
Project 
) 
85% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(b) under Part C 
2,500,000) 
85% 
 
of
the Project 
) 
 
__________ _________ 
 
TOTAL 150,000,000 
20,000,000 
 ========= 
======== 
Page  14
-
13 - 
Annex 3 
SCHEDULE 5 
Terms and Conditions governing the FSL Loan
1. 
The amount of the FSL Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works and 
services required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
FSL Loan. 
2. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the FSL Loan. Such fee shall be payable not later than 
sixty days (60) after the FSL Effective Date. 
3. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the FSL Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such 
charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the 
General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
4. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the FSL Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the 
Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the FSL Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest 
on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
5. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
6. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the FSL Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
7. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the FSL Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
Page  15
-
14 - 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the FSL Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, 
to an Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the FSL Loan from a Variable Rate to 
a
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the FSL Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
Annex 4 
SCHEDULE 6
 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the FSL Loan and 
the percentage of the total principal amount of the FSL Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the FSL Loan shall have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the FSL Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the 
Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the FSL Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each 
Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct 
any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 1 and August 1 
 
Beginning August 1, 2009 through February 1, 2019 
5% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the FSL Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the FSL Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the FSL Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the FSL 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the FSL Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this 
Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as 
to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
WB76939 
M:\PERU\795-PE- Lima Water Rehab and Mgt (supp loan)\signing\795-PE - Amending Agreement.doc 
March 10, 2004 11:57 AM
 
