Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3048-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
May 1, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of April 16, 1981)
Rs 1.00                       Paise 100
US$1.00            =          Rs 8.302
Rs 1.00            =          US$0.1204
Rs 1 million       =          US$120,400
The U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to
Rs 8.0, which represents the projected exchange rate over
the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC       -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
BISCOMAUN  -   Bihar State Cooperative Marketing Union
GOI        -   Government of India
NCDC       -   National Cooperative Development Corporation
PACS       -   Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society
PCS        -   Primary Cooperative Society (general)
RBI        -   Reserve Bank of India
RCMS       -   Regional Cooperative Marketing Society
RCS        -   Registrar of Cooperative Societies
SCB        -   State Cooperative Bank
SCMF       -   State Cooperative Marketing Federation
SLDB       -   State Land Development Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President (GOI)
Beneficiaries:         National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) for
onlending to State Cooperative Banks (SCB) in Madhya
Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab,
and Himachal Pradesh; to State Land Development Banks
(SLDB) in West Bengal and Maharashtra; and to the State
Cooperative Marketing Union in Bihar (BISCOMAUN).
Amount:                SDR 101.8 million
(US$125 million equivalent on April 1, 1981)
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       GOI to NCDC:  At an interest rate of not more than
6.75% per annum over fifteen years;
NCDC to Participating Banks: At an interest rate of not
less than 7.25% per annum for rural godowns subprojects,
repayable over fifteen years, including three years'
grace, and not less than 7.5% per annum for cold-storage
subprojects, repayable over fifteen years, including
five years' grace;
NCDC to State Governments, and Participating Banks to
End-Borrowers: At an interest rate of not less than
9.5% per annum, repayable over fifteen years, including
three years' grace for rural godowns subprojects, and
five years' grace for cold storage subprojects.
GOI to carry exchange risk.
Project                The project would provide credit for cooperative
Description:          godowns and cold-storage and marketing facilities to
assist in meeting the input supply and post-harvest
requirements in nine States (West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya
Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh,
Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh), to promote the
development of the cooperative institutions within these
States, and to expand the capability for sub-project
preparation and appraisal within the cooperative sector.
The project will finance the construction of about 7,900
cooperative godowns, providing almost two million tons
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
of storage capacity, in addition to about 127 cold-
storage units providing about half a million tons of
cold-storage capacity. The project would also provide
for technical assistance, training in cooperative
marketing techniques and cold-storage operations, and
research and development on experimental storage facili-
ties and related activities. Under the project, about
3.2 million farm families would benefit from the services
provided by primary cooperative society godowns, and
about 150,000 families from the services provided by
the new cold-storage facilities. Continued shortages
of cement could result in delays in the construction
program and consequent cost escalation. GOI and parti-
cipating State Governments have undertaken to give the
highest priority to this project and make adequate
supplies of cement available. A further risk is
that the cooperative sector institutions have limited
experience in potato cold-storage management. Safeguards
that have been provided include the recruitment of tech-
nically qualified staff and training in cold-storage
operations. Technical and marketing support would also
be extended to the primary cooperative societies by apex
cooperative federations.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ Millions)
Local    Foreign    Total
(a)  Godown Component
Rural Godowns                83.6         9.3       92.9
Market Godowns               41.2         4.6       45.8
Supporting Investments       0.7          0.1        0.8
125.5        14.0      139.5
(b)  Cold-Storage and
Marketing Component
Cold Stores                 68.0          7.6       75.6
Marketing Facilities          0.3          -         0.3
Supporting Investments       0.2           -         0.2
68.5         7.6       76.1



- iii -
(US$ Millions)
Local    Foreign    Total
(c) Technical Assistance and
Development Component
Technical Assistance,
Training                   0.7       0.1        0.8
Research and Development   0.9          0.1       1.0
1.6       0.2        1.8
Total Before
Contingencies           195.6       21.8      217.4
Physical Contingencies    10.7          1.2      11.9
Price Contingencies         33.9        3.8      37.7
Total Project Cost 1/    240.2        26.8      267.0
1/ Including US$18.6 million in taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
(US$ Millions)
Local  Foreign   Total
IDA                            98.2    26.8    125.0
NCDC                           75.2       -      75.2
State Governments              53.4       -      53.4
Beneficiary Cooperatives       13.4       -      13.4
240.2    26.8    267.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY82    FY83   FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
Annual        23.3    29.5   30.1    21.1    17.9        3.1
Cumulative   23.3    52.8   82.9   104.0   121.9   125.0
Rate of Return:             23%
Appraisal Report:           No. 3300a-IN, dated April 17, 1981






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
1..       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to SDR 101.8 million
(US$125 million on April 1, 1981) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project, involving
the construction of cooperative godown and cold-storage facilities and the
strengthening of cooperative development institutions in nine participating
States. The entire credit amount (US$125 million) would be channelled
through GOI to NCDC at an interest rate of not more than 6.75% per annum.
NCDC would in turn onlend the funds to participating banks at not less than
7.25% per annum for cooperative godowns and not less than 7.5% per annum for
cold stores, and to State Governments at not less than 9.5% per annum. Par-
ticipating banks would relend their proceeds to beneficiary cooperative
societies and marketing federations at not less than 9.5% per annum. State
Governments would contribute their proceeds to beneficiary cooperatives as
equity. Loans made by NCDC and participating banks would be repayable over
15 years, including three' years grace in the case of cooperative godowns
investments and five years' grace in the case of cold-storage investments.
The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of 672 million
(in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture contin-
ues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in
1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% in 1950/51 to about 40% in 1978/79.
The share of industry has increased over the same period from 15% to 23%.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural
Extension Project - Phase II (No. P-3012-IN), dated April 6, 1981.



-2-
But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that has
led to higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing
countries. The urban population was 18% of the total in 1960, and is about
21% now.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth in agriculture -- 2.5% per annum
over the same period -- has constrained overall growth, not only because of
the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce foreign exchange
has often been required to import food. Industrial value-added has grown
more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but this growth
has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as required.
Gross domestic savings more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in
1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from
10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was
reached during the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had
returned to much lower levels. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never
risen above 3% of GDP.
5.      Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import substitution. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically. In response, the Government
introduced many policy measures designed to stimulate exports. The volume of
India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum between 1972 and 1977,
demonstrating that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding
world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this
process, liberalized access to imported inputs, and improvements in incen-
tives designed to increase the profitability of exports played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950./51 to 1975/76.
However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 as a result of the drought-
induced decrease in agricultural production and input constraints in other
sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-term picture.
Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to shortfalls in the
production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infras-
tructural constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence



-3-
of these developments, the remarkable price stability that characterized the
Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year
1978/79. During the spring and summer of 1980 the price index continued to
rise sharply, so that by September it stood at 19.1% above that of the previ-
ous September. Foodgrain prices rose over the summer and fall of 1980 but
more slowly than the drop in 1979/80 production would have suggested so that
in most markets grain prices remained close to the Goverment's ration prices.
Low income groups in urban areas were assured adequate supplies of grain at
stable prices through the public distribution system. The substantial stocks
of foodgrains also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief
employment program for low income groups in rural areas. In 1980/81, the
economy recovered, aided by a normal monsoon, so that real GDP growth for the
year should be about 7 to 8%. During the summer of 1980, GOI raised prices
of petroleum products and fertilizers, reflecting the growing cost of imports
of these items and the GOI efforts to encourage efficiency in their use.
Recently the growth in prices has slowed so that by January 1981 the whole-
sale price index was 15% above its level a year earlier.
7.         In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1978/79. Fer-
tilizer use reached 5.2 million tons of nutrients in 1979/80, more than dou-
ble 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain production
grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer demand, to elim-
inate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per year for the 15
years preceding 1976), and to lower real foodgrain prices for consumers. At
the same time, India was able to build up substantial foodgrain buffer stocks
which made it possible to weather the effects of 1979/80 drought with com-
parative ease, and to export about half a million tons of grain in 1980.
While the management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a signi-
ficant achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the
continued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The need to
expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other inputs continues.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on
enhanced profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource
scarcity is even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and
1978/79 India's current account deficit had remained comfortably small in
relation both to GDP and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was
primarily due to favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net
invisibles which masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports,



-4-
the growth of which has slowed since 1977. One area of concern is the
apparent decline in the growth rate of manufactured exports which had contri-
buted much to the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combina-
tion of strong domestic and slack international demand, exacerbated by severe
infrastructural and supply constraints and apparent lessened interest in
export promotion during the resource surplus period were the major causal
factors. Recently, signs of improvement in the availability of power, the
main constraint facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export pol-
icy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth,
though continued attention to both these areas will be required.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports -- which had tradi-
tionally been a large item in the balance of payments -- have been eliminated
since 1978 and, for the past few years, India has been a marginal net
exporter of grain. The rise in other imports, however, has more than offset
this development. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; most consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1980/81. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to increase by over 75% in 1980/81 after doubling the year before.
India's foreign resource deficit as a proportion of GDP reached the unpre-
cedentedly high level of 3.0% in 1980/81. India was able to finance this gap
through a substantial draft drawing on IMF resources (the Trust Fund and Com-
pensatory Financing Facility), and through an increase in aid and a drawdown
in reserves, both of modest proportions. Petroleum imports as a proportion
of merchandise exports now exceed 75%.
Development Prospects
10.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports --
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable scope
for expansion as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.
India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institutional
infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural
resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and fer-
rous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and sufficient



-5-
access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these con-
siderable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
11.     The new Indian Government elected in January 1980 formulated a new
Sixth Five-Year Plan for the period 1980-85. The Plan was approved in Febru-
ary 1981. The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and
power. Furthermore, the Plan reflects recent developments in India and in
the world economy which have brought to the surface the need for urgent
action in several areas. These include: (i) expansion of exports and an
investment program directed toward containing the growth of imports in the
face of a deteriorating balance of payments situation; (ii) an investment
program and policy framework for more efficient use and development of energy
sources; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related con-
straints on production of basic industrial inputs, and (iv) continuing
emphasis on the development of agriculture.
12.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to exist-
ing demands, the past programs and policies have led to disproportionally low
growth in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services,
steel and cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted
from large investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these
input bottlenecks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement,
domestic production appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative
advantage, indicating an a priori case for policies to promote further
investment.   All these are tradeable commodities.  Although in 1980/81 they
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages, increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in using industries. In the case of sectors in which there is no
option to import the final product --power and transportation-- the planning
of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is scope for
improvement in the shortrun performance of these sectors, major investments
in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new capacity are essen-
tial for adequate and growth in the medium term. The presence of infrastruc-
tural constraints and shortages of basic industrial inputs demonstrates that
the expansion of industrial output leads to competing claims on scarce
resources with significant implications for public versus private and short
versus long-term investments.
13.     Despite the relatively large investment programs for the development
of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to narrow the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages.
Growing demand for petroleum products, disrupted production from the Assam
oilfields, and recent oil price increases, have boosted India's oil import
bill to US$7 billion, equivalent to about 78% of total exports of goods.
India is entering the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production



-6-
program backed by substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI
is now accelerating its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up pros-
pective areas for exploration by foreign firms. India is now committed to an
expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro poten-
tial and development of the transmission and distribution system. In the
coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
14.      Despite the 1979 drought, agricultural policies, development programs
and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining the past growth rate
during the 1980s.  India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million
tons, without having imported foodgrains during the year. This is partly due
to the bumper crop of 1978/79 and good management of the foodgrain stocks
following the 1979 drought, but also reflects the trends of the last decade
which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the economy. In
view of the acceleration in the use of agricultural inputs and the projected
fall in the population growth rate, the long-run prospects for foodgrain sup-
ply and demand balances look favorable. If the efforts to develop agricul-
ture over the past decade are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the
new Plan, persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide
range of policy options will become much more practical. These options
include a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to increase the affordabil-
ity of foodgrains to low-income families, further rationalization of domestic
markets and prices, foodgrain exports and diversification to the production
of other, higher value crops.
15.      Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertaintie.- in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects.   Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in
terms of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time
since 1977. A very sharp decline in the reserve level would have occurred in
1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing Facilities amounting to
over US$1 billion not been available to India. At best, India's reserves may
provide a cushion for two more years, and even that depends on improved
export performance, on the maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances
and on moderation in oil price rises.
16.      India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with longer-
term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable physi-
cal and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a dif-
ficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The pri-
mary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment



-7-
policies, although the aid community can and should play an important role in
ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
17.     The annual population growth rate declined from 2.3% in the late
1960s to about 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will be achieved only around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 79%
over the mid-1980 level of 672 million. Family planning has played an impor-
tant role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the
extent of a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of
a successful official family planning program. The family planning perfor-
mance data for 1978/79 and 1979/80 clearly indicate a comeback from the sharp
decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods during 1977/78.
Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for all contraceptive
methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the increase in the
total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was modest, female
sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and 1978/79. Recent
data confirm a secular upward trend in overall performance. For the past
several years the family planning program has emphasized measures that would
yield relatively modest but sustainable results with increased emphasis on
reversible methods.
18.     Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to having inadequate physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illi-
terate, the hungry and the sick. Improvements in the living standards of the
poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
mainly on increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm
rural employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem largely from market forces which, however, can
be reinforced by appropriate government policies and investment priorities.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects
such developments. There is also a role for direct government action in fas-
ter implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction
in poverty through redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans and
finally in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human
capital of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are
elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been an integral part of
Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in
the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities



-8-
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the
community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign,
provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost pro-
grams can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 134 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$8,672 million (both net of
cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,139 million had been
repaid, and US$4,551 million was still undisbursed as of February 28, 1981.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through Febru-
ary 28, 1981, totalled US$454 million, representing an increase of about 24%
over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of
disbursements as of February 28, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.     Since 1959, IFC has made 19 commitments in India totalling US$110.6
million, of which US$20.8 million has been repaid, US$27.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$54.7 million, US$46.2 million
represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in pro-
viding direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through
its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range
of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises.
IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected prior-
ity sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization
in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Goverment's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects



-9-
benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertil-
izer sector also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key
input in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply,
sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reason-
ably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for
external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain
below 20% through 1995/96. As of February 28, 1981, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$1,762 million, of which US$951 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,811 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 46%, 37% and 48%, respectively, in
1979/80. On March 31, 1980, India's outstanding and disbursed external pub-
lic debt was US$15.6 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$5.2 bil-
lion or 34% (IDA's US$4.5 billion and IBRD's US$0.7 billion). Because Bank
Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt
service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1979/80, about 18.0% of
India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



- 10 -
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND COOPERATIVES IN INDIA
General
26.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it employs 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 40% of GNP and accounts
for a major share (about 60%) of exports. Consequently, investments in agri-
culture have been given high priority by GOI and the State Governments, espe-
cially since the mid-1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
27.       GOI's recently published Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85) continues
to give high priority to developing the agricultural sector. GOI recognizes
that faster agricultural growth is necessary not only to increase output but
to increase employment as well. GOI's policies aim at increasing the rate of
irrigation development and making more readily available to farmers a complete
range of agricultural inputs, including fertilizer and credit, appropriately
supported by improved extension services and research.
28.       A key element in this strategy is the development of the village
cooperative society which in much of rural India is the only institution at
the village level situated to provide credit and other inputs and post-harvest
facilities. The proposed project focuses on strengthening the institutions
dealing with village cooperatives and on helping to provide the cooperatives and
their marketing federations with basic facilities required to carry out their
input supply and post-harvest storage functions.
The Cooperative Situation in India
29.       The cooperative movement in India started in 1906 with a program
to organize farmers credit societies. Through various promotional programs
and support from Central and State governments since that time, cooperatives
have spread throughout India. GOI's approach to cooperative development has
changed over time. Cooperatives at one time held a monopoly on GOI agricul-
tural credit and input distribution programs. In the 1960s, GOI policy began
to be more oriented towards achieving productivity gains, and other public and
private agencies, as well as cooperatives, began to be employed in these
programs. This resulted in competition from other agencies and a need for
cooperatives to enhance their management and operational efficiency. GOI
is carrying out a program to strengthen village level cooperatives, and to
make them more efficient and responsive to farmers' needs. The National
Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) (see para 35) is an important
instrument in carrying out the program.
30.       In general, the cooperative system is organized under a three-tier
system in each State. In the villages, the Primary Agricultural Cooperative
Society (PACS), using deposits from members and institutional borrowings,
provides short and medium-term credit, distributes farm inputs and consumer
goods, and provides primary marketing services. The PACS are the most
important source of institutional short-term credit for farmers. In 1976/77,
PACS provided some Rs 16 billion of credit to members. This is estimated to
have covered about one-third of short-term credit requirements of farmers; the
remaining requirements were mostly met through traditional non-institutional



- 11 -
sources. PACS in each district are members in a District Cooperative Bank
that provides funds for credit, and also in a block level Regional Cooperative
Marketing Society (RCMS) which provides wholesale marketing services to PACS.
District Cooperative Banks are in turn members of the State Cooperative Bank
(SCB) and depend on it for refinance and other banking services. Wholesale
marketing services required by the RCMS are provided by the State Cooperative
Marketing Federation (SCMF). Procurement, storage and distribution of fer-
tilizers, foodgrains and consumer goods make up most of the business volume
of the RCMS and SCMF.
31.       Long-term cooperative credit in India is provided mainly through
a two-tiered cooperative credit structure made up of State Land Development
Banks (SLDB) at State level and primary land development banks, or State Land
Development Bank branches, at village level. These long-term cooperative
credit institutions, together with commercial banks, are the channel for
almost all of the IDA resources which have been provided under past and
ongoing agricultural credit operations in India. The Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation (ARDC) is the intermediary institution through
which IDA funds have flowed for long-term farmer credit programs, which have
emphasized minor irrigation development. Performance of the long-term insti-
tutions, particularly of ARDC, has by and large been satisfactory, and ARDC
has developed to the point where it has taken over subproject preparation,
appraisal and monitoring functions from IDA. ARDC's refinancing operations
in 1979/80 amounted to some Rs 1.6 billion for State Land Development Banks
and Rs 2.4 billion for commercial banks.
32.       Timely loan recovery has been a persistent problem of agricultural
credit in India - affecting short and long-term cooperatives and commercial
banks. The problem is more acute in some areas of the country than others
and most severe where adverse weather conditions and local political inter-
ference have undermined credit discipline objectives. Average overdues as a
percentage of demand 1/ for primary cooperatives societies, for example, ranged
from about 65% in some States to 30% in others as of June 30, 1977. GOI and
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) are concerned about maintenance of credit
discipline, and have imposed minimum recoveries criteria on cooperative banks
participating in IDA-supported agricultural credit projects. Commercial bank
lending for agricultural development has grown rapidly in recent years and
there is now a need to improve recoveries for these institutions as well.
This is a subject being explored in the context of the appraisal of the pro-
posed Fourth ARDC Credit project, planned for FY82.
33.       Credit is only one aspect of the services provided by cooperatives,
particularly the PACS. These societies, and their non-credit activities,
are the thrust of the proposed project which seeks to strengthen their multi-
purpose character and enhance their ability to provide a range of services to
farmers. One of the main problems of primary cooperative societies is that
many are small in terms of number of members, financial resources and volume
of business. Consequently, they are unable to pay for competent and full-time
management, to make investments in storage facilities and input supplies or to
1/   Demand is defined as the total repayments falling due during the year
plus overdues from the previous year.



- 12 -
provide other services which farmers need. Concern of governments over poor
performance by cooperatives has thus led to several policy changes, recommended
as a result of studies made by the Reserve Bank of India in collaboration with
State governments. The thrust of the policy changes is to reduce the number
of societies by merging them into larger and more viable units and strengthen-
ing their ability to provide a range of services to farmers. The late seventies
have thus seen a deliberate decrease in the number of primary societies -- from
about 175,000 in 1973 to 130,000 in 1978. Along with these mergers, the aim
has also been to change the character of the primary societies from mere
credit institutions into multi-purpose cooperatives providing input supplies,
storage of output and other services for farmers.
34.       GOI's program to develop and strengthen multi-purpose primary coop-
erative societies and their cooperative marketing federations is being carried
out by several institutions. The most important at the central level is the
National Cooperative Development Corporation, described more fully below. At
the State level, the Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS) is responsible
for promoting cooperatives, supervising their operations and conducting an
annual audit of their financial activities. State Cooperative Banks also
play a role in the development of cooperatives by providing refinancing
for primary society credit activities and financing for direct cooperative
society investments, such as the godowns and cold stores under the proposed
project.
National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
35.       The National Cooperative Development Corporation is an all-India
public institution established by GOI under the National Cooperative Develop-
ment Act of 1962 to plan, promote, develop and finance agricultural and agro-
based industrial cooperative enterprises. NCDC participates in development
schemes of cooperatives engaged in production, processing, storage, marketing,
export and import of agricultural inputs and output. Under the Act (as
amended), NCDC is authorized to advance loans, provide grants and subsidies,
and participate in the share capital of cooperative enterprises either directly
or through State Governments and State Cooperative Banks. Within these broad
limits of authority, NCDC has helped finance cooperatives in a variety of
activities including-storage, sugar factories, spinning mills, stocking and
distribution o fertilizers, and distribution of consumer goods in rural areas.
NCDC has also provided technical and financial assistance for pre-investment
surveys, mark ting studies, feasibility studies, and training.
36.       NCDC\ is governed by a General Council of 51 members and a 12-member
Board of Manage nt. The Council is responsible for NCDC's policy whereas
general management is vested in the Board. The Managing Director, who is also
a member of the BoaEd, is the chief executive. He is supported by a financial
advisor and six directors in charge of marketing, processing, fertilizer
storage, rural consumer goods, textiles, and research and evaluation depart-
ments. NCDC has a staff of about 450 including more than 100 executives
specialized in cooperative and administrative management and technical aspects
of agri-business. NCDC has seven Regional Offices and three smaller Project
Offices.



- 13 -
37.       A major source of NCDC's funds in the past has been GOI, which makes
funds available in the form of annual budgetary allocations. The NCDC Act
does not provide for share capital but NCDC is authorized to borrow from the
market by sale of bonds and debentures. The total of bonds now outstanding
is Rs 569 million. Retained earnings are credited to a capital account,
the NCDC Fund Account, which had a cumulative balance of Rs 500 million on
March 31, 1980. Borrowings from GOI on that date amounted to Rs 1,007 million.
38.       In the past, NCDC has channelled loans and subsidies to client
cooperatives mostly through the State Governments (about 90%), and sometimes
through State Cooperative Banks. It also lends directly to cooperative
federations and cooperatives with interstate business operations. NCDC's loan
participation in individual investments has ranged from 50% to 75% of total
costs, the balance being met by the borrowing cooperatives, by State Govern-
ments as loans and share capital or by State Cooperative Banks as loans.
39.       From its inception up to March 1980, NCDC has provided Rs 3,345 mil-
lion (US$418 million) for various cooperative development schemes. Of this,
Rs 2,957 million (US$370 million) was provided as loans, about Rs 307 million
(US$38 million) as grants and subsidies and Rs 81 million (US$10.0 million)
as direct participation in share capital.
40.       Loans outstanding at March 31, 1980, totalled Rs 1,928 million
(US$240 million). About 87% of this was owed by State Governments, 11% by
State Cooperative Banks and 2% by other cooperatives, roughly the same as
the disbursement pattern. All loans to State Cooperative Banks and State
Cooperative Marketing Federations are guaranteed by the States concerned.
NCDC's loan recovery record has been excellent.
41.       NCDC's income has steadily increased over the past four years.
Excess income over expenditure at the close of 1979/80 was equivalent to
about 16% of gross income for the year although this ratio has declined from
higher levels reached in preceding years. Major liabilities are Rs 1,007
million owed to GOI and Rs 569 million in market borrowings. NCDC's debt
equity ratio is 2.8:1. NCDC is a financially viable institution and is
expected to remain so.
42.       The Bank Group's first involvement with cooperatives in the field of
post-harvest activities was in 1979 with the First NCDC Project. This project
was designed to construct and rehabilitate about 8,600 godowns in the States
of Uttar Pradesh, Orissa, and Haryana, and to transform NCDC from essentially
an onlending channel for GOI funds to a promotional development finance insti-
tution for the cooperative sector. IDA is financing 47% of this US$63 million
project and NCDC is contributing 28% from its own funds. NCDC and participat-
ing banks are following IDA guidelines in subproject preparation and appraisal,
and the project is progressing satisfactorily. About 350 godowns are completed
and 1,100 are under construction. Bank Group review missions have determined
that the godowns have maintained the potential for financial viability envis-
aged during project appraisal.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was appraised in October 1980, and a Staff Appraisal
Report is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington in April 1981. The Government of India was
represented by a delegation with Mr. Ranga Rao as coordinator. A Supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
44.       The proposed project represents an extension into several additional
States of the cooperative development and institution-building activities
successfully undertaken as part of the First NCDC Project. The project's
primary objectives are: (i) to provide cooperative godowns and cold-storage
and marketing facilities to assist in meeting the input supply and post-harvest
requirements of nine participating States 1/; (ii) to promote the development
and expansion of the cooperative institutions within these States; and (iii)
to expand the capability for cooperative subproject preparation and appraisal
within the cooperative sector.
45.       The project will be implemented over five years and will comprise
two major components -- cooperative godowns, and cooperative cold-storage
and marketing -- together with a small technical assistance and development
component. In physical terms, the project will provide credit for the con-
struction of additional cooperative godown storage and cold-storage facilities
at village, regional and central levels in selected participating States.
The cooperative godown storage facilities, which will be constructed in five
States 2/, will supplement those already provided in the States of Uttar
Pradesh, Orissa, and Haryana under the First NCDC Project, and in Madhya
Pradesh and Rajasthan under an ongoing EEC credit. This component will
consist of about 7,900 units with a total storage capacity of just less than
two million tons. The cold-storage and marketing component will involve the
construction in six States 3/ of about 127 units providing about 0.5 million
tons of cold-storage capacity.
46.       Of the total of 7,900 new godowns to be constructed, about 7,000
will be small godowns of 50, 100, or 200 tons capacity for primary agricul-
tural cooperative societies (PACS) in Maharashtra, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh
and Himachal Pradesh. These godowns will be used for purchasing, receiving,
warehousing, selling and delivering farm inputs, primarily fertilizers.
They will also be used to handle seed, weedicides, pesticides, farm produce,
non-perishable food and other commodities and farm implements, and to provide
farmer credit and consumer goods such as soap and kerosene. The godowns will
serve as rural service centers and will be focal points for expanded economic
activity at the village level. About 750 large marketing and storage godowns
1/   West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.
2/   Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.
3/   West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab.



- 15 -
of 500 - 10,000 tons capacity each will also be constructed in these States
by the State Cooperative Marketing Federations (SCMF) and Regional Cooperative
Marketing Societies (RCMS) to support the farm input supply and produce pur-
chase activities of the primary societies. In Bihar, about 150 marketing
godowns will be constructed by the State Cooperative Marketing Union (BISCOMAUN).
These will provide cooperative services directly to farmers in the interior of
the State to supplement those services provided by some of the weaker primary
societies.
47.       Of the 127 cold-storage units to be constructed under the project,
69 will be in Uttar Pradesh, where 50% of India's potato crop is grown. Approx-
imately half of these will be owned and operated by the SCIF, and the rest by
primary cooperative societies (PCS) and RCMS. Seventeen cold stores in Bihar
and 22 in West Bengal will be owned by the PCS and RCMS, while the remaining
19 cold stores (four in Madhya Pradesh, eight in Punjab, and seven in Haryana)
will belong to the SCMF. Cold store units will have a capacity of 4,000 tons
each, and only in exceptional cases will smaller units be constructed. The
cold stores will support the cooperative system in catering to its cold storage
and marketing needs. The availability of these stores will help to improve
storage methods as well as the efficiency of marketing practices for potatoes
and other semi-perishable produce by enabling farmers to market their produce
at a commercially advantageous time of year. Cooperative involvement in
potato marketing under the project will be developed initially by the SCMF,
who will organize their own marketing mechanism, establish offices and recruit
specialized staff for this purpose. The marketing cells established by the
SCMF will provide expert assistance to the PCS to enable them to undertake
and develop their own marketing activities at the primary level. The National
Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation, as the principal exporter of
potatoes in the cooperative sector, will develop marketing intelligence serv-
ices for the SCMF and carry out research and experimentation in potato market-
ing systems and in storage of potatoes and other semi-perishable produce (see
para 49).
48.       All godown and cold-storage buildings will be based on standard
designs, for which design drawings were agreed during appraisal. Facilities
provided for the PACS will include storage space for fertilizer, farm produce,
and consumer goods. Facilities will also include a sales floor, society
office, drinking water supply, toilet facilities, verandah, patio for meet-
ings, and parking yard. Building designs, specifications and construction
standards for project godowns and cold stores will be acceptable to IDA
(Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement).
49.       With regard to the technical assistance and development component,
consultant services totalling about 264 man-months will be engaged to help
strengthen the special loans departments and to set up organization and methods
departments in most of the participating banks (SCB/SLDB), 1/ speed up rehab-
ilitation programs for the SCB in Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and West Bengal,
1/   Technical assistance for these purposes has already been provided to
Uttar Pradesh and Haryana under the First NCDC Project, and to Madhya
Pradesh under the EEC project.



- 16 -
and establish marketing divisions in the SCMF for the six States involved in
cold-storage operations under the project. Consultants will also be engaged
to develop procedural and operational manuals for godowns and cold stores, and
to provide training to cold store operational staff and to other trainers in
godown operations. Research and development activities will focus primarily
on determining the most suitable storage facilities and marketing methods,
not only for potatoes, but also for other semi-perishable commodities such as
onions and pulses.
50.       A small amount of funds (US$1.0 million) has been provided under
the project to support project implementation. These supporting investments
include surveying equipment and equipment for design, construction, supervision
and payment certification of godowns and cold stores, together with vehicles
and bicycles for the executive and technical field staff of NCDC, participat-
ing banks and cooperatives. Eighty-one motor vehicles for field executives
of NCDC and participating banks, 354 motor-scooters for project development
officers, engineering supervisors and cold store managers, and 3,500 bicycles
for godown managers, will be provided.
Project Implementation
51.       As in the First NCDC Project, NCDC will be the primary agency for
coordinating project implementation activities in the nine participating States.
State Governments will provide overall policy guidance to participating coop-
eratives in each State. The godowns and cold stores will be owned and operated
by either the SCMF, the RCMS, or the PACS. Each godown and cold store con-
structed under the project will represent an independent subproject loan for
which a financing proposal will be prepared and submitted to the appropriate
participating bank (SCB/SLDB) for appraisal and financing. The Registrar of
Cooperatives in each State will carry primary responsibility for subproject
promotion and identification, and his staff will assist the regional and
primary cooperative societies in preparing the subprojects and the associated
loan applications. NCDC headquarters, regional and project office staff will
also provide assistance in project promotion and subproject work. SCB and
SLDB in each State will function as NCDC's onlending channels and implementing
agencies, except in Bihar where NCDC will lend through its own branch office
direct to the Bihar State Cooperative Marketing Union. To ensure consistent
recoveries performance among various IDA-supported credit projects in India,
NCDC will require that the participating banks attain a loan recovery rate 1/
meeting a level previously agreed by GOI and IDA in order to remain eligible
for NCDC refinancing under the project (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement).
Recovery-rate levels would generally follow those applied (or to be applied)
in IDA-assisted ARDC lending. At present, participating banks will be required
to attain a recovery rate of at least 50% to remain eligible for NCDC refinan-
cing; they are also expected to take the necessary steps to improve recovery
rates during project implementation with the objective of attaining and main-
taining a recovery rate of at least 65% by the end of the project period. All
participating banks, with the exception of those in Maharashtra and Himachal
Pradesh, currently have loan recovery rates of 65% or more; the SLDB in
1/   Loan recovery rate is measured as the percentage of annual demand
received in repayments (including interest) during the year, where annual
demand is the total repayments falling due during the year plus overdues
from the previous year.



- 17 -
Maharashtra has a recovery rate of 54%. In the case of Himachal Pradesh, which
is regarded as a cooperatively backward State, the present loan recovery rate
of about 20% for the participating SCB is not adequate to meet this criterion.
However, the State Government has prepared a rehabilitation plan for the SCB
which was provided to IDA for review during project negotiations, and which
details actions for the strengthening of the SCB's finances and for the col-
lection of overdues. In view of this, and of the difficult conditions prevail-
ing within the State, IDA has agreed to apply less stringent loan recovery
criteria in the initial years of project implementation. To be eligible for
NCDC refinancing, the SCB in Himachal Pradesh will be required to attain a
recovery rate of 35% by June 30, 1981, 45% by June 30, 1982, and 55% by
June 30, 1983.
52.       Each cooperative society participating in the project will employ
a full-time manager. NCDC will organize the necessary training to enable
him to prepare subprojects and manage the society's new business effectively
and profitably.  Those PCS in Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh that plan
to own cold stores (as opposed to leasing them from the SCMF in the other
States) will employ managerial, technical and other staff adequate to carry
on their business in an efficient manner. SCMF and participating banks will
provide engineering advice and support to these societies during subproject
implementation, and technical and marketing support during subsequent opera-
tions. The SCMF are adequately staffed at the management level to accommodate
the increased business resulting from the additional godown storage capacity
to be provided under the project. However, additional staffing and preparatory
work will be required to equip these organizations to handle the project's
cold storage component. Only the Haryana and Bihar SCMF have had experience
in cold store operations, and potato marketing has been undertaken only on
a very small scale. All SCMF will strengthen their engineering divisions to
include refrigeration skills and will establish separate divisions to deal
with potato procurement and marketing. Since it would be uneconomical to
provide specialized refrigeration staff for each cold store, such staff will
be centralized at the SCMF level and will provide support services not only
to the SCMF-owned cold stores but also to the primary marketing societies. In
some States, the refrigeration services offered by the SCMF will supplement
those available from established refrigeration firms who undertake cold store
maintenance and operation under contractual arrangements.
53.       The SCB and SLDB will establish special loans departments to be
responsible for implementing the project. Staffing of the participating SCB/
SLDB will be strengthened to enable appraisal and monitoring of godown and
cold store subprojects to be carried out. In seven of the nine project States,
the participating banks will also set up engineering divisions to handle the
technical aspects of the subprojects. However, in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh,
where it may be difficult to attract high-caliber engineering staff, the SCB
will utilize the specialized engineering facilities of the SCMF. Adequate
numbers of engineering staff in any case will be employed in these banks to
undertake technical appraisal, monitoring and certification of progress pay-
ments to construction contractors. In all States, engineers and development
officers from the participating banks will spend most of their time in the
field assisting client cooperatives to prepare subprojects and related loan
applications, appraise and monitor subprojects, review construction progress,
and follow up godown and cold store operations after commissioning. The



- 18 -
participating banks and SCMF will strengthen their staffing during the first
project year according to a program discussed and agreed upon during negotia-
tions (Section 2.09(d) of the Project Agreement).
54.       Once a subproject has been prepared, a loan application will be sub-
mitted to the participating bank for appraisal. The bank will appraise the
subproject loan application using appraisal criteria agreed by NCDC and IDA
(Section 2.09(a) of the Project Agreement). The criteria will ensure a
thorough review of technical and financial feasibility, and will include a
review of the cooperative's credit activities and recoveries performance.
Project implementation progress will be supervised and monitored by the parti-
cipating bank through periodic visits by the bank's engineering staff. The
vehicles provided under the project will enable the field staff to carry out
these supervisions more frequently and effectively. Loan disbursements by
the participating bank will be based on work certification by the engineering
staff.
55.       The participating banks will maintain detailed memorandum records,
and ledger and control accounts relating to all subproject loans. These
records, together with subproject reports and related loan documentation
and supervision summaries, will provide a complete record of each subproject
cycle and its progress, including project appraisal, loan approval, disburse-
ments, contribution by the State Government, interest charges, installments
due, collections, overdues and follow-up action. These records will be audited
by commercial auditors employed by NCDC for this purpose and will be reviewed
periodically by IDA supervision missions (Section 2.09(c) of the Project
Agreement). Summarized information on these will be incorporated in NCDC's
quarterly progress reports. Copies of NCDC's annual work programs and related
cost estimates will be made available to IDA before the start of each financial
year (Section 2.13(a) of the Project Agreement.)
56.       Project monitoring and evaluation will be the overall responsibility
of NCDC. At the State level, monitoring will be the responsibility of the
participating banks. Project evaluation will be carried out by the Evaluation
Unit within NCDC, which was established initially under the first NCDC project,
and which reports directly to the managing director. This Unit will follow
up project implementation, identify problem areas, assess effectiveness of
participating institutions, and measure subproject impact on the participating
cooperatives and their members and on the farming community served by the
cooperatives. The Unit will also compare costs and benefits realized with
appraisal projections. The head of the Unit will be an economist, supported
by a statistician and a cooperative specialist. The Evaluation Unit will be
independent of all other departments of NCDC and work in close collaboration
with its Management Audit (internal audit) Department. In addition to provid-
ing quarterly monitoring reports and annual evaluation reports to IDA, the
Unit will also be responsible for the preparation of a project completion
report (Sections 2.13(b) and 2.05(c) of the Project Agreement).
57.       Manning of each godown and cold store by technically qualified and
experienced staff will be essential to the success of the project. During
the project implementation period, about 7,900 godown managers and 1,700 cold
store administrative and operational staff will be trained. One or two Project



- 19 -
Manpower and Training Coordinators will be appointed in NCDC to be responsible
overall for providing the necessary job-related training, and for securing the
availability of qualified manpower for the project units. State-level units
will be responsible for project training. Training for godown managers will
be provided at Cooperative Training Centers in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal
Pradesh, Maharashtra and Punjab, while training for cold store staff will be
provided at four training colleges in Haryana/Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal
and Bihar. The effective utilization of project godowns and cold stores will
be contingent upon the services of a professional and compenent staff, and on
the interest of members. To achieve this, training will be accorded a high
priority in project implementation and will be carefully planned. Manpower
and training plans prepared by NCDC were provided to IDA for review during
project negotiations and are satisfactory.
Project Costs and Financing
58.        The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$267 million, including about US$18.6 million in taxes and duties. The
proposed credit of US$125 million will finance all of the foreign exchange
costs of US$26.8 million and about US$98.2 million of the local costs, and
will cover about 50% of project costs net of taxes and duties. The remaining
costs will be financed by NCDC (about 28%), State Governments (20%), and
beneficiary cooperatives (5%). Physical contingencies of about US$12 million
are based on a rate of 5% of base costs, except for the State of Himachal
Pradesh where a rate of 10% has been used to take into account the difficult
topographical conditions. Price contingencies amounting to about US$38 mil-
lion are based on a projected price escalation of about 7% to 9% per annum,
for both local and foreign cost components, over the project period.
59.        GOI will onlend the credit proceeds to NCDC under a financial agree-
ment to be entered into by GOI and NCDC. Execution of the financial agreement
will be a condition of effectiveness for the credit (Section 5.01(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). These funds will be channelled through GOI
to NCDC at an interest rate of not more than 6.75% per annum, repayable over
15 years. NCDC will make these funds, together with its own, available to
participating banks under lending terms of not less than 7.25% per annum for
refinancing cooperative godown subprojects, and not less than 7.5% per annum
for cold-storage subprojects; repayment would be over 15 years, with three
years' grace for godown subprojects and five years' grace for cold-storage
subprojects. Participating banks will in turn relend the funds to cooperative
societies for godown and cold store construction at not less than 9.5% per
annum, with the same repayment period terms (Sections 2.09(b) and 2.11 of the
Project Agreement). NCDC will also provide some of its own funds, on these
same terms, to State Governments. The States will pass these funds, together
with funds from the State's own resources, to the benefitting cooperatives as
equity contributions. Cooperative societies are expected to be able to pay
dividends on the equity capital at a rate of 5% from the first year of the
project. All NCDC loans to participating banks will be guaranteed by the
respective State Government, as is required under the NCDC Act.
60.        Loans made by participating banks to cooperatives for godown con-
struction will cover 50% of the godown investment cost. The remaining 50%
would come from the borrowing cooperative (5%) and the State Government as



- 20 -
equity (45%). In the more backward and hilly areas in Himachal Pradesh the
State Government contributions to PACS for godown investments will be partially
in the form of capital grants of up to Rs 20,000 (US$2,500). About 44% of the
total State Government contributions will come from the States' own resources,
although the greater part (56%) will be obtained through loans from NCDC. Such
loans to State Governments will be made out of NCDC's own (non-IDA) resources.
NCDC will refinance the full amount of the loans made by participating banks
to cooperatives for godown construction.
61.       Similarly, in the case of cold store construction, loans made by
participating banks for this purpose will cover 60% of the cold store invest-
ment cost, and NCDC will refinance the full amount of these loans. The remain-
ing 40% will come from the cooperative (5%) and the State Government, as equity
(35%). State Government contributions to cold store investments will be made
as equity or partially as grants, as for godown investments. The major part
of State Government contributions (57%) for this type of investment will come
from the State budget, while the remaining 43% will be obtained through loans
from NCDC's own resources.
62.       The margins proposed for the godown component will be the same as
those adopted in the First NCDC Project, that is, 0.5% for NCDC and 2.25% for
participating banks. The NCDC margin of 0.75% proposed for the cold store
component is considered justified on the basis of the requirement that NCDC
undertake not only the detailed appraisal of cold store subprojects, but also
a greater measure of project monitoring. In the case of the godown subproj-
ects, the appraisal and monitoring is undertaken almost entirely by the parti-
cipating banks. The 2% margin for participating banks in the case of cold
store subprojects is considered adequate compensation for their role, and will
provide a satisfactory profit. The onlending rate of 9.5% is comparable to
the rates charged to farmers, cooperatives and other borrowers under IDA-
supported agricultural projects in India, through the Indian Dairy Corporation
and the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), for example.
The ARDC rates, which are about one percentage point higher, reflect the higher
cost of the type of lending in question; ARDC-refinanced loans are typically
smaller, amounting to about Rs 4,000 for a farmer's shallow tubewell invest-
ment compared to about Rs 80,000 for a typical godown investment under the
proposed project. Inflation in India over the past five years has averaged
less than 8% per annum. The average annual inflation rate over the next five
years is not expected to exceed 8%. The proposed onlending rate of 9.5% to
the ultimate borrowers, the cooperatives, would therefore be positive in real
terms.
Procurement
63.       The project will involve relatively small expenditures by indivi-
dual cooperatives spread over time and throughout the nine project States.
Contracts for godown and cold store construction will not therefore attract
or warrant international competitive bidding (ICB). Consequently these
contracts will be let on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Contracts for cold store
construction would generally be let in three parts -- structural civil works,
electrical equipment and installation, and refrigeration equipment and instal-
lation. There are many well-established electrical equipment and refrigeration



- 21 -
machinery manufacturers in India, as well as several local representatives of
foreign manufacturers who will have the opportunity to bid for such procure-
ment. Since competition among suppliers thus will be assured, and since the
electrical equipment installed in each project cold store will have a maximum
value of US$40,000 and the refrigeration equipment a value of US$70,000, con-
tracts for the supply and installation of electrical and refrigeration equip-
ment will be through local competitive bidding.
64.       Technical assistance services (US$800,000) will be primarily procured
locally in accordance with procedures agreed with IDA (Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement). Supervisory and marketing vehicles (US$1.1 million) and
surveying equipment (US$40,000) will be procured by prudent shopping by borrower
cooperatives. Selling prices of locally manufactured vehicles are so well
established that competitive bidding procedures are not expected to result in
any worthwhile cost saving. Furthermore, local procurement of vehicles is
necessary to ensure adequate maintenance and spare parts availability. Pro-
curement procedures presently in use are satisfactory to IDA.
65.       The SCMF will handle their own procurement and provide assistance
to the RCMS and PCS which are not equipped to handle capital works of this
nature. The participating banks will manage the godown construction contracts
for PACS and RCMS in all participating States except Punjab and Himachal
Pradesh. In these States, the State Governments and participating banks have
decided to utilize the engineering cells in their SCMF, which are considered
better equipped to handle the technical aspects of godown construction.
Disbursements
66.       The IDA disbursements for godown and cold stores construction will
be made against NCDC's certified statements of loans made by participating
banks and refinanced by NCDC. For ease of administration, IDA will disburse
85% of the total amount of the loans made by NCDC to the participating banks.
Documents in support of these will be audited by independent auditors appointed
by NCDC for this task and be made available to IDA for inspection during project
supervision (Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement). Other disbursements under
the credit will cover: (i) 100% of technical assistance services; (ii) 100%
of research and development expenditures; and (iii) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for imported items (see paras 49, 50). Disbursements against these
three categories will be fully documented. With a view to expediting project
implementation, NCDC and the nine State Governments have initiated project
preparation activities for this project in conformity with criteria set forth
during appraisal. In support of these efforts, IDA financing has been pro-
posed for expenditures for godown and cold stores construction, vehicles,
technical assistance, and engineering instruments incurred on the project
after October 1, 1980, but prior to credit signing, up to a total limit of
US$4.0 million (para 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
67.       The godown component of the project will help ensure timely delivery
of fertilizer and other farm inputs to large numbers of farmers. The primary
economic benefits will accrue from the reduction of losses of farm produce and
fertilizer as a result of the improved storage created under the project, and



- 22 -
the savings in transport costs. For the cold store component, benefits will
be obtained from reduced potato spoilage (estimated at about 20% of cold stor-
age throughput), increased value of the potato crop through deferred marketing,
and reduced seed transport costs through local production and storage of seed
potatoes. In the economic analysis of the project, labor costs have been
shadow-priced at 60% of the market wage rate for unskilled labor and 80% for
skilled labor, to take into account the high levels of unemployment and under-
employment in project States. Salaries of skilled technical and administrative
personnel have been costed at market rates. A conversion factor of 0.8 has
been applied to domestic expenses and non-traded goods and services. On this
basis, the project economic rate of return will be about 23%, or about 16% for
the godown component and 34% for the cold-storage and marketing component.
The godown component is relatively insensitive to variations in the cost and
benefit streams: a 10% variation in any of the streams or their combinations
would result in a change of only two percentage points in the economic rate
of return. A one-year lag in attaining the projected benefits would result
in a reduction of the rate of return from 16% to 13%. In the case of the
cold-storage and marketing component, a 10% reduction in benefits would lower
the rate of return from 34% to 29%; a one-year lag in attaining the projected
benefits would lower it to 27%.
68.        The project is expected to assist some 3.2 million farm families
(about 17 million people) through the services of the primary cooperative
society godowns, and about 150,000 potato farm families (0.8 million people)
through the use of the cold store facilities. Over 65% of these families
belong to the categories of landless, marginal and small farmers (farmers
having less than 5 ha of unirrigated land, or 2.5 ha of irrigated land).
69.        The project will have a substantial employment impact.  Godown and
cold store construction will provide about 62,500 man-years of employment during
the five-year implementation period. Once construction is complete, 7,900
managers, 7,500 storekeepers and 8,800 watchmen will be needed by the partici-
pating cooperatives. The cold stores will provide employment for about 1,000
people, and will benefit women in particular through the creation of jobs in
the cold stores for potato sorters and graders. Through its indirect impact
on farm production, the project is also expected to generate substantial
additional farm employment.
70.        Institutional and social benefits of the project will also be con-
siderable. NCDC will be strengthened as a development finance institution
for the cooperative sector not only for rural storage but also for other
agricultural processing, industrial and marketing activities. Other partici-
pating institutions such as cooperative societies and banks will also be
assisted in strengthening their capacities and procedures. Thus the project
will greatly assist in institution building at the village level, which is in
accordance with GOI's policy of creating village growth centers for expanded
economic activity. The cold storage and marketing component will reduce the
risk associated with potato growing and will greatly assist the small farmers
whose needs have been hitherto neglected by private cold store owners. It
will also provide the first opportunity for many cooperative federations and
the primary cooperative societies to gain valuable experience in the cold-
storage and marketing process. Only a few apex cooperatives have had exper-
ience in cold store operations, and then only on a relatively small scale.



- 23 -
71.       The technical aspects of godown construction are relatively simple,
and many local contractors with experience in the construction of cold stores
are available. One possible risk is the uncertainty of cement availability,
which could result in delays in the construction program and consequent cost
escalation. GOI and participating State Governments have offered to give the
highest priority to this project among other projects under implementation
within the States and make adequate supplies of cement available. A further
risk is that the cooperative sector institutions have limited experience in
potato cold storage management. Safeguards have been provided basically
through recruiting technically qualified staff and providing them with the
necessary training in cold storage operations. Technical and marketing
support will also be provided to the primary cooperative societies by apex
cooperative federations. The risks are no greater than can normally be
expected with operations of this type in India and are acceptable in view of
the benefits which will accrue to the cooperative sector and large numbers
of small farmers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
NCDC, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The execution of a Financial Agreement between GOI and NCDC has
been made an additional condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b)
of the Development Credit Agreement).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 1, 1981






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND DO. KM. )                                                      MDST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824.0                                 MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCCOE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA 1US$)                   60.0       100.0      190.0             212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      108. o0c    141.OQc   176.O/c            166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9        547.6     643.9
IRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19. 7     21. 7              20.8                   39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      974.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 10.                       132.0       167.0     196.0              193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0        308.0     353.0              409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.0         42.5      41.4               42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                         56.5         54.6      55.6               55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3. 5         2.9       3.0                3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAI                               1.9         2. 5      2.0                2. 2                   2.4
UIRBAN                              2. 5/d      3.3       3.3                3.9                    4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.0        40.0      35.0               37.4                   28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.0        17.0      14.0               14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         2.9       2.4                2.6                     1. 9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      64.0      3782.0    4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          12.0      16.9               15.6- 39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0        102.0     103.0              101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0         92.0      91.0               92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0         51.0      50.0               49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        15.0      13.0               12.0                   18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      28.0        22.0      18. 0              17.9                    5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0         48.0      51.0               50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       134.0        ..                 ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      33.0               30.2                   42.4
URBAN                               ..         60.0      83.0               66.0                   62.1
RURAL                               ..          6.0      20. 0              20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        18.0      20.0               17.7                   52.8
URBAN                               ..         85.0      87.0               71.3                   71. 1
RURAL                               ..          1.0       2.0                 ..                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5800. 0/e    4890.0    3617.0            6322.7                 4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630. 0/e    5220.0    5675.0             9459.0                 2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2149.0/f    1629.0    1289.0             1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                               ..           ..
RUIRAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..        ..                 ..                   29.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLU
TOTAL                               3.2          ..       5.2
URBAN                               5.2          ..       4. 8
RURAI                             5.2           ..       5. 3
AVERAGE NIIMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6         2.8
URBAN                               ..           ..
RtRAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF OI.LINGS)
TOTAI                               ..           ..
UlIBAN
RIlRAL



ANNIX I
Page 2 of 5
Il'DIA - ICIAL INDICATORS rATA S.IEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WFTGIITED AVE  CES
- MOST RFCFNT FSTI?ATE) -
MOST RECENT        LGU INCOME              MIDDLE ltCORMF
1960  L     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENPOLIMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         72 0       80.0               80.9                    98.6
MALE                  80.0         87.0       95. 0              94. 3                   99.2
FEMALE                40.0         5S. 0      64. 0              66. 7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0         29.0       28.0               26.6                    55.5
HALE                  30.0         39. 0      38.0               34.8                    60. 7
FEMALE                10.0         17.0       18.0               18.2                    49.9
VOCATIONAI ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   8.0           6. 0        ..                9.9                    13. 7
PUPIL-TEACRCR RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0         40.0       42.0               41. 1                   34.6
SECONDARY                           16.0         17. 0        ..               20.5                    28. 5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33. 0      36.0               40.9                    85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 7         1.0        1.3                1.8                     9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5. 0        21.0      24.0                25.8                   118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0. 1       0. 5               2.4                    39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         16.0       16.0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            6. 3       3. 8                ..                     4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    31. 3        32. 6      32.0               29.4                    36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0         74.0       74.0               70.5                    51. 9
INDUSTRY (PERCEMT)                  11.0         11.0       11.0               11.6                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0         40.2       39.2               37.9                    39.1
MALE                                  57.1         52.3       51.3               51.3                    48.5
FEMALE                                27.9         27. 1      26.2               23.7                    29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0         1. 1       1. 1                1.2 2.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSFiOLDS   26. 7          26. 3/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51. 7          48. 9/I.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4. 1           6.O7/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6           17.2/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       88.0              107.8                      .
RURAL                                 ..           ..       76.0               86.5                   192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 ..                   182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       40.7               46.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       47.9               51. 7                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages 'or ench indicator ore pupulation-veighted  trithnetic =eans.  Covorage of countries
atmong the Indicators depends on availability of dqts and Is not uniform.
jb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwoen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Solid fuel conversion factors revised, Id 1951-60;  /e 1962;  /f 195S;  Ig 1967;  /h 1964-65.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other data Are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL. INDlICATORS
Voee    lthough ohn data at  dr-  ftro   outo.. generally judged tbo mos  auh-uio-i   end reliable, it ehould aleo he tote  tht thy mayoabeitr
nationlly otmpa-bla baoeaa of te lack of eteadurdleed dafltlilit. a-d t-cpte uaad by diff-rnt co-ties ittlota   the data.  rt.  dt.   .
.h1.. usefulI to d4.-tba orda-  of egu        ide tdi-at  tred., and chatac-tl. c.tan  lt doff g-nca  bewaocrntie
Th  aetr   ru.A III( the anar ouotY troop cf the eubj-rn co.oyad (2) a oo-rygou   b   euso- high                        .      aa  he  hecote   rn
ofth  ebfetcutr   trpttt"opoltrlue Oil trreg    ru    ht "ff1441. tn-.  l-toh Africa and Middle Ket" Ie choae  bacna  of ettr..gat
*tto-ulcrg  ofEjittg . I  the rofet-u  gotu  data the a-n.rae r  poptlatinto oightad -Ji ftit  -gn  for each indiato-t                  h-dele a.ny  h-ia  at
laethafofoh. cutotia. toa...op ha. data tot that lediog-r  Sito  tha toraag  of  -octtone amon  the inditcerc     dp-gde or the araiibility of
data and t   u   nfr.oolmmth   orieed  r ralatiog ooT.agee If o-  indloto to,,  a_oob. Thee.  -otge   r  only ueefal ia  -"rt.iM the  -no
LAND ARIA (theooan  eq.he.)                                                                 nuatonrPheca -Youaoedtttda  bY nma  eP-ettItIng pa'-
Too - 1Tta  -ufgo ... o ot   ptae:antrc n:tlr  oaaa.eotm .niad.fto.                                               mdca   thuo  at uguvera ity I.-In.
Asiutl-Fatimat  ofagtiutnta  at-sd  -emprerly orprIet                  y        ftlatnecOttoPeae-Ptlt    divided by   "Ta  of pr-Iticta
far otta. ratore , ert ard kbttobatgrdet  o  t  toe tailtre  1077 data-           nate oo  fe-al  g            dat   .u.. ratt    -.reea I  d nanuana  a-ea
GE? PU CAPIT   (US$5 - GNPP-   -i-t..  t -k., pft~        1-       Ponlatlot rat Eloeitl Mad - total. orba. fad rual - Paplttic  (tet.l,
mP  U  APIA  01) -IfP  et  aronanteaeeat  urar  make  pica,  al    uran  ad rurl) dIvided by their repnttl.a           A. of heapta  bade
oulated1 by na-  coerreic  nethd an World tack Atlue (1977-79 haefa); 19,                 avilable In yablit end PrTve-  geo-l -d apatulad baaltl                    r
1970, and  li7Wdntn.                                         -    ~~~hebilitoton cater.  doepitale ar  taibli-A.g  paenly atoff ad
- Al-1 I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~by at lone  on  phyatoi-e  UttAblOnf.ete prewidlas prima1oll.1 ataia
Dm5 WflfPTI0fN ff1 CAPITA -Ata  coaeonttcof  -cerclnle.etgy (-cI                      tarear A   tt..   tolodad.  Mural hoepItale. barer, istloA. basS t        mnn
and lgnite, p-toLeum _,_t.orI aa nod hyr-  ..rul-a  cod goham l.ea-                        meattopaantyetfdbyapatlabobyamdnlnte e
trltity) In kiloane  of -cl    iclatpat c.Pit.; 1960. 1970, an  19798orn  miete  eta.)  -bt  ffery  pe-p idin aabe.tlby A                                    previde a-.
dana.                                                              l~~~~~~~~~~~~imited rage of    d1a f-tlito -o  Per etaiti.tIal penpoast a banhepi
tOPfltATIOtg dM00171.TAIOSTICO                                                              tale' t!rlda  gl principal gearl and epattligod bapitala, ne  tota
T.  I P..r                                                         h..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oaitl  loa  or rurl beptfl  ad  adical -d eat"e""t  o tr..
TtlPelatilo. Mid-Sear lelio.e..    Ac of July 1; 1960, 1970, an  1978              AdiePn taZ        otilld-Tea   .n    fameooet  odebr
Irbo,Porle   ...baret of toctal)   R tit  of utbar to tota  porulatoctt;.b-f   d.
difenodftiric    ofuhtreesy afat oom braliuty of Onto                         nDUoro
an .coT.r..e; 190   90   nd17   et                                                  A-ern tie. of Ht...nholdleet ear he.a.nobold) -  ctatl. ocbAd. an  ara-
orlatic ttr-et...                                                                       0  oefcdoott   fago,f t ivduale ehc ehera  Ivt"" quate.'
.Poraice. 1,. ye- 2000 - Curreto rpuplgtion prcJnrttoo  era hatd -c 1960                And tha   nitnaie          1oade   srode  say or say -to  ha itldad In
toaP   ooalrbyaeada              iad thisatlynefgtlyreo                               the h .ue. old foroaiOoa   opne
ruattc   aamtr  ttertlt  tate  t-Ptto       t:tohealenae ae                     Aot.aaetumt- of Perarn  ret roan l- tat            -, ura. ed ttc.l - A-erge  a
Ion loteenrettocy  at birth  trrelg          hb  --otty'a pat cApIta     -on          bar ofpeetparo   In  l ubn,td  ua  ocptdnn1otca
lav-,an  feacle life  taatnc          .obilioleg at 77.5 FOnre. PTterr-               Oalna   orriay              ollog   nolde I to-ynmaon  -tootuasan
metere f or feritlity rate alto hen. tbreu 1.0..1. a-esoniog.t doc-ilto                                             .-p.-tit
-1-dis 1, i- I P-   f-cento lscrlcon oer-ntof  ee-Itnl -totl.  tbna. ftd rura
and fertility tr-da f-r projectin furoa-.lofoct l,ira . udrua  deelltugarnqop-ctire-y
Icarlotr rrletnI.taalo...y  popolat.. there to  Storoth ait..
thn birthraeiaqatothedeath rte.t  and  leo the ag  srcTIOt-                       N000
attn  roteonor.  710. ie ahiev-d oly after f-rtiityat    I dIlt  to~-       Adtia-d Euroll-sat Rtittc
of ooeeral..ee iteslf e-tcly.  Tha eoirayporuattt  eltoearinn   faltn t tie primary local an paratnan  ot rapnot
eaimat t   I0 the beat. of ths ptroicotad t-onatt11fo.rouait                            piaysho-uerpltoa   omly inlden rbd-de  agd 6-1l
intbe year2000, nod cbo rot  o faia of farttlity  rte to  olr-yashtnjeedfcdteeolnoao  pri Mar   dottnfo
nato bovel.                                                                   coon tries oc-oh..tbti .ut.oerea.l- edutatIo  er1olmet say toce   100 p.rcan
tao no, ha. - Mid-Yea  population tar square kilcea   (000 h-a-n) of                      p-1ndne  gen.a.  no      oa, orteaher trtIginstrutio.  for pnpn
t.t.1                                                              :..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uual Y  f 12 to 07 Years of a go nne podeterore   areeaatll
far en. he. agrioulural land - lomC t-d us aboe foragtrlo 1a md                   enlcded.
PctlatYn.  n   iooor  treo             bldr-  I 0-lA  years.), onkidon-ata 115-            tol,e eHtol  oderal   rotedrotm   011h npoaetdepo-
IA poanel nod  etired  (65 year   and .oer  as rercatoanne of endY-yr pPOPO      da-ly 00 As doro-ot  of egoodar   netutoe
lotion; 1960, 1970, and 1979 data.                                                      FPucul-tenhe -ati  - ptriay an  eecndar   T-1ta  -odnote enrlld to
Poltion Growib anon  (porcet - total  k- Aonl groth o-to  of tota  aid-                   orceet  no  eacdory 1-oi  dtnded by toe-  It -enb-t in the
yearP potolata     for 1930-hO, 1960-70,an  19,0-7r8ornrttg  een
Poultionbot roalaono     ra   - unuo  groth  atee. of urhat poy-                         Adul.t liteac-rt  loo t)-Litertet adolts (able to rand an  cite)
fainn  o  1951-hO, 1910-70. o  1970_-78.uspraag ofttldltpuntnaed1yasadovr
Crua birthtb rot loon thenod) - Annua  lire birtha per th.....dof old-year.- g                                     -1d1   .II~.             d1 y,    d.t
poplaIon  191,0 1970. no  1797  data.                                               CONSUXFTXNc
Crude roath hate (car ohenoad)q-'Anna 1deah. per    usoof  itd-yeu-                     PI,martanIa tosn ocuaico       aen                       aecmta    oo
population; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dato.p:: 1..-:d "'
."b- If d-ght.t A  I brota  tat-Y                      lass11  tha   ight p-re..a; uaoldea nabulnon, hanr.a.ned
ircee hattodaotoa tats-Anorag  ifbt  afdh.   ernoo p      01.. 1t hearti"  I      tit tar   (rocee
herlitma  erouoo  yaRdi   hapreoepreo   t-trh0fc                                       adic soter  re   hau...nd pcaulaclnl -All typo. of rta...ar-  for roM
oIlIy raen;  eualy fto-ynr anraga atn.ding to  1960. 1970, nod 1977.              brod ... te tcenrlrhl   00cos Oo   uuacc;ecoe   n
roniy Plan~-Actotnr. citua lohceodnf - Actua  tuba  of totptota                esdrcteeI.onra  andtyasIoargaroo   fraIse
of  oro-ootrl dntac  nda  aapiee  f  otina  fanidy tInnIng progJ..                  ID t  aff.or; data for r....ot yare nay  ot he onperobl  eL-.n most
nst-  of  hild-hbrtn  age I15-Ac4 ya-re  oho  un  htth- -1nro  d-i-rotc                00 Reeor Irtooaotcnlooo      0rclefrbodntt
FOODil AND7NUTR0TIto  oure. ad to Yanre eh.e regloornttan of  ietraOnefr.
Ondn o fod roucton arinron1t:!1969-1- )-leeo  per ..pita oeul                    OorrrCruain croden  ouatn   - Shor  'h. -Agoat  lti-lim.
oroducotoc ofal  foo   Ocalle           td irtt    -1oldee need tod Coed ao             lic-tico dototd prlmortly% ....onTdig geaalor , It i .-ida...d
tan..  ..a solodd) - Agrgats&t  prod ioo  of snob coutry 1. base  00.      le%c                                   I  .i.P          --   B.:    ''      .-I
tattnol  natao prd--rprc   eihtg; 1911-h5, 19700,   i 1976 date.                   oloat  tol..d durn  teY.., iooluding adaisi.n. to dron-in cia.-
atary autrlee  of et  oodautita  ava'11tlable it o -ocy pet ce pita         o.nr rorit
ret da    Aelable ef rte  -oprun            eso  pr ctt,tp-tre less                 TtlabrForce (thouaandal -E.ono.             l   oia  eeo.  tld
topore, an  thenes instoo- ftar      ... iuplseecldanimal- ted  sns,           a d to-a  adoepl,yed hut nocluint  oua-ma,nuea,to
qattio   ndI  ootroaaa,adlossc  ds-htot    auta                                         e-P:csinr oatunte   r  ttcmaabe   90.17   n
mat  oeetimatad by 700 baned t   hsilgra   ad  for  omlan-                      96dc 
niYanhnth   -ieedri.J        ..onot--toI t-mpnrta i     body osOgha-, age-         Pals lornoI-Feutlbrfoc   epraraeo   cllbrfra
adsndtst-Ihuoto  of polnt,ad alwn   10 Perceot for ...t at                                                                  P"iutr  rner     lbrfret   amn,  ogty   uta   n
he...ehold lanaI  19611-65, 1670, nAn 1977 dat.fsl    nporoaoo  total labor  form;, f91.-170  nd  97  -dat
Par catIo aurtlr o troteje area oar'ay)-Pr clcttrof par ca,ita             Indu-y (pr.r...t) - aboo fort  it icg,   o trictio,  attuig
net supply ofll food perfo.at eupl  of food I. doftind noa.n. ...n.lcnct,  aa   o   a  5poccaao   oa  lbrfre   90
qutra-nt  for all cntrisa etahlig.hed by UtDA p-indn for  ittolaun-1970dnod.1978 data 
polee potalt,of obto  10 grmapebold  ha atnod rroen - Thaeetand-.  ..
anP  lroeoA  a   vrg     rO.  rl.pooe-y  A   traTid                                    octae   ftta,slfo      l   pPt,               ttt fmalla e Ptarcis;
I..dPndtrny  1961-hf.17  and197  data                                                19017,-n 1975  ata.Thes TteIll.p-tiotpalaar toe.Laoti
fIne   totoImaeadplo   nae    u doy-P 1991-6, 197  and 197dta                        Pa.  ar   re  atnlauc
.d                                          .'.~~~~~~Icoscrotoo atc-atc  fppltcoodr0   o  85: end none
Child nn 1-A Moiulo rota15 lane thAnd)7  -d Actual deotha pot thousandp It:'t      ::1
ag  gou I'-A yeta.o.      rilre   i  obte age aroup -;6too stat 1 deopo  coon-          to th -ntel labo  forhpa.                                 ..A  --i
trig. dnoa Intoned f rot life tebias; 19h0. 197i ted ~~~~~AY 1977 data  .  odc1or7nndnoacyx
UALS"d                                                                             Parcantago of Phricota I  Oncona bothi t  mati und k..1ind) -4.   nacetd  by rtomd
Ihild                           I I d..t . p %t ... Aw l.              th~~5 prone.  rioheor 20pret   oont7   etet  n   OtatI   ana
atbirth  1960 d-i-d   and l97t data..;16,17     d17    .                             NOEDSRBT
of nee pat het,eaed lie hirobe.                                 g ta ...Abcua ooynIt               tenn ,l l       rPat coton -  rbanind  ourel h-
Lce t     sfaOno  oecnao nrl-              te --g     tuoni. ufrYu. nod rural -i,         5fp Abeolte poveety   20on planelV. Ia ohe   toc  _1t 9  bum   0.th a0 sa-t
on .o.  oo  e  htfo  prtaoa   nrboee   prng.  e  eaitr   alla.                          Mtimt  Ad tele tne Ponert I -u  Level (OS$ pe           t.00,) -  -rban.A    .ret.1
raatbo  ce.rol   ml thend tbo.houeenApifno  smor   f  h  bousfh0ld                     an l.ot.duteofrht    os   flnn   nubnae
'..' -t                 "'t:'y   ""   "         ..~~~~aiItand Porlatton talony T.-lut toL-    nc.1o Ietnl   ra
donhae tohped   dispootoat.           oo tIn. day it fa        bln oh.          andI rorl .-  Peren  o  Ioplaio  (urba L.        ua)ab   r  e         aepot
diapaaol a. paromonegee of teir roepacaino populanto-nIfathet  di-.h.ldtomict an   or                                         ai ifso
d.e  nayh- toood  the1 dnloiopop and.   -   I d    tspan dAe y or etoot ohen,nath.                               fot-o      tayal anTPolnto    roaoot)
pit priolsa nod sOmber tnaeinllottote It



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
UONOIIIC DEVELOPHMET DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1979 USS190
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979/80-/                                                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTh (%. constant Prices)
US$ Bln.          %            1955/56-1959/60    1960/61-1964/65    1965/66-1969/70         1970/71-1974/75      1975/76-1978179
GNP at Market Prices                     134.16         100.0                3.7                 3.6                  3.6                  2.8                  4.5
Gross Domestic Investment                 29.24          21.8
Gross National Saving                     28.55          21.3
Current Account Balance   i/              -0.85         - 0.6
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Addad (at factor cost)            Labor Force               V.A. Per Workar
USS Bln.              7.             Hil       %                 USS         % of National Averase
Agriculture                           39.8                39.6           181.3      71                220                 56
Industry                              25.5               25.3             28.1      11                906               230
Services                              35.3               35.1             46.0      18                767                195
Total/average                        100.6              100.0            255.4    100                 394                100
GOVERNMENT FINAINCE
General Government                                               Central Goveroment
Ra  Bln               % of GDP                                   Rs. Iln.             ? of GDP
T197717i70'   1979/80   1975/76-1979/80                          1979180        1979/80    1975/76-1979/80
Current Receipts                     208.18          19.2           18.9                              108.96          10.0            10.6
Current Expenditures                 206.44          19.0           17.7                              117.67          10.8           10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit                1.74           0.2            1.2                              - 8.71         - 0.8
Capital Expenditures   L/             81.81           7.5            7.4                                56.93          5.2            5.1
External Assistance (net)  t/          7.97           0.7            0.9                                 7.97          0.7            0.9
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICeS             1970/71       1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77       1977/78      1978/79      1979/80       December 1979       Decmber 1980
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                 109.6         175.7        194.6        222.9         272.8         329.1        398.9        468.2             448.3             521.7
Bank Credit to Government (net)        52.6          87.3         95.3        101.1         110.2         134.7        153.9        192.2             176.4             231.4
Rank Credit to Comercial Sector    64.6             107.0        126.7        153.9         185.0         212.2        253.5        306.5             294.7             335.9
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                               April-Dec 1979    April-Dec 1980
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   27.2             29.8         27.9         30.2           34.0         36.5         40.8         43.1
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                     100.0        139.7        174.9         173.0         176.6        185.8        185.8         217.6            212.2             253.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                    7.7         20.2         25.2        - 1.1            2.1          5.2           -           17.1             14.6              19.5
Bank Credit to Government (net)        10.8          12.3          9.2          6.1            9.0         22.2         14.3         24.9              24.9  A/          31.2  h/
Sank Credit to Coercial Sector    19.4              22.6          18.4         21.5          20.2          14.7         19.5         20.9              17.5  I/          14.0  h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the converion technique used in the World Bask Atlas, 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchan.g rate prevailing during the period covered.
bJ Quick Estimtes.
j/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not necessarily consistent vith official figures.
e/ Transfers betmeen Centre and States have been netted out.
LI All loans and advances to third partie have been netted out.
&I Percentage change frcm end-December 1978 to sod-December 1979.
IL/  Percentage change from end-December 1979 to end-Dec_ber 1980.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                     1977/78      1978/79    1979/80    1980/81             MHERChANDISE XPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77 - 1979/80)
US$ Mln.        %
Exports of Goods                        6,315        6,978       7,958       8,998              Engineering Goods             768 1/       11
Imports of Goods                       -7,188       -8,519    -11,249    -15,624               Tea                            462           7
Trade Balance                           - 873       -1,541    - 3,291    - 6,626               Gems                           605           9
NFS (net)                                  691          773         633         463             Clothing                      460           7
Leather and Leather
aesource Balance                         - 182        - 768    - 2.658    - 6.163                     Products                425           6
Jute Manufactures             284           4
Interest Payments (net)  i/               - 89         - 35         350        303              Iron Ore                      298           5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -            -           -          -               Cotton Textiles               289           4
Net Transfers iJ                         1,077        1,216       1,458      2,462              Sugar                         132           2
Others                      3,028          45
Balance on Current Account                 806          413      - 850      -3.398              Total                       6.751         loo
Official Aid
Disbursements                        1,628        1,695       1,891       2,389             EXTERNAL DEBT, mARCH 31. 1980
Amortization                         - 645        - 702       - 676       - 707                                                   US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                    - 330        - 158         -        1,035              Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.6
All Other Items                            617          286      - 143          133             Undisbursed                                 5.7
Outstanding, including                     21.3
Increase in Reserves (-)               -2,076       -1,534       - 222         548                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserveo (end year)                5,823       7,357       7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (end year)  i/            5,668        7,357      7,579       6,691              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80  _/!/  10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Haterials                                                                     IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECDtBER 31. 1980
Imports                                  1,811       2,043       3,977       7,012                                                   US$ million
of which:  Petroleum                 1,811        2,043       3,977       7,012                                               IBRD         IDA
Exports                                     32          24          26         n.a.            Outstanding and Disbursed          806         4,895
Undisbursed                       572         3,547
Outstanding, including          1,378         8,442
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971           US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0. 137376
After end-June 1972                      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1979              US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1,00 - US$0. 126
Spot Rate end-December 1980              US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
/ Estimated.
i Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IHF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
I/  Figure for 1979/80 is estimated.
S/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
ApriL 1981






ANNiEX II
Page 1 of 18
TlIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.  STATEIIENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CkEDITS
(As of February 28, 1981)
US* millioni
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year Borrower         Purpose               Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
43 Loans/                                          1,313.2
65 Credits fully disbursed                                    3,807.4
342-IN    1972  India   Education                     --        12.0       4.35
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural
Mlarkets                  --          8.0      0.99
390-IN    1973  India   Bombay Water Supply I        --         55.0       1.2b
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing
& a,larketing             --        13.0       6.30
lUll-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD   52.0          --        14.51
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy               --         30.0     18.67
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD          --         83.0      30.99
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy              --         27.7      14.36
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy         --         16.4       6.17
526-IiN    1975  India   Drought Prone Areas          --        35.0       1.70
1079-IN    1975  IFFCO   IFFCO Fertilizer             109.0      --         0.36
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI               94.8      --         1.29
532-IN    1975  India   Godavari Barrage
Irrigation               --         45.0       3.97
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric.
Development              --         34.0       9.22
562-IN    1975  India   Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD             --         24.0       1.55
572-IN    1975  India   Rural
Electrification I        --         57.u         .04
585-IN    1975  India   llttar Pradesh Water
Supply                   --         40.0      16.44
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry          --        105.0      31.48
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV        --        150.0      56.78
609-IN    1976  India   Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.            --           4.0      1.71
61(-IN    1976  India   Integrated Cotton
Development              --         18.0      11.61
1251-IN    1976  India   Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation              145.0        --       89.97
1260-IN    1976  India   IDBI II                       40.0       --       15.40
1273-IN    1976  India   National Seeds I              25.0       --       22.78
1313-IN    1976  India   Telecommunications VI         80.0       --       21.98
1335-IN    1976  India   bombay Urban Transport    25.0            --       8.25
680-IN    1977  India   Kerala Agric.
Development              --         30.0      24.76



A4NhX 1I
Page 2 of lo
US* million
Loan or                                                     (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose                bank      IDA      Undisbursed
682-IN    1977      India   Orissa Agric.
Development              --       20.0        10.47
685-IN    1977      India   Singrauli Thermal
Power                    --     150.0         64.09
687-IN    1977      India   Madras Urban
Development              --       24.0         9.47
690-IN    1977      India   WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research          --      12.0        12.00
1394-IN    1977      India   Gujarat Fisheries          14.0       --         10.70
712-IN    1977      India   14adhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.              --       10.0         6.62
720-IN    1977      India   Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation               --      23.0        14.55
728-IN    1977      India   Assam Agricultural
Development              --        8.0         6.87
736-IN    1977      India   haharashtra
Irrigation               --      70.0        39.26
737-IN    1977      India   Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension          --      13.0          9.49
740-IN    1977      India   Orissa irrigation           --       58.0        37.93
1475-IN    1977       ICICI   Industry DFC XII          80.U       --         14.90
747-IN    1978      India   Second Foodgrain
Storage                  --     107.0        84.54
756-IN    1978      India   Calcutta Urban
Development II           --      87.0         34.74
761-IN    1978      India   Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research                 --        8.0         7.33
1511-IN    1978      India  IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                   25.0      --          19.51
1549-IN    1978      TEm    Third Trombay
Thermal Power           105.0       --         77.89
788-IN    1978      India  Karnataka Irrigation         --      117.6        86.54
793-IN    1978      India  Korba Thermal Power          --      200.0       153.44
806-IN    1978      India  Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture              --       14.0        13.78
808-IN    1978      India  Gujarat Irrigation           --       85.0        72.42
615-IN    1978      India  Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries                 --       17.5        15.59
816-IN    1978      India  National Seeds II            --       16.0        15.57
1592-IN    1978      India  Telecommunications VII  120.0    --               55.46
824-IN    1978      India  National Dairy               --      150.0       135.15
842-IN    1979      India  Bombay Water
Supply II                 --     196.0       188.79
843-IN    1979      India  haryana Irrigation           --      111.0        58.33



A1iNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower          Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
844-IN    1979    India   Railway Aodernization
& Mlaintenance            --    190.0       151.20
848-IN    1979    India   Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage                --      38.0        26.24
855-IN    1979    India   National Agricultural
Kesearch                  --      27.0        25.91
862-IN    1979    India   Composite Agricultural
Extension                 --      25.0        20.47
871-IN    1979    India   NCDC                          --      30.0        19.27
1648-IN    1979    India   Ramagundam Thermal
Power                    50.0      --         50.00
674-I1    1979    India   Ramagundam Thermal
Power                     --    20U.0       176.70
889-IN    1979    Inaia   Punjab Irrigation             --    129.0        111.57
b99-Li,   1979    India   Nlaharashtra Water
Supply                    --     48.0        46.95
911-IN    1979    India   Rural Electrification
Corp. II                  --    175.0       14b.63
925-IN    1979    India   Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry                  --      23.0        21.32
947-IS    1979    India   ARDC III                      --    250.0        126.58
963-IN    1979    India   Inland Fisheries              --      20.0        19.91
954-IN    1979    India   Maharashtra
Irrigation II             --    210.0       190.89
961-IN    1979    India   Gujarat Community
Forestry                 --     37.0        33.53
981-IN    1980    India   Population II                 --      46.0        45.95
1003-IN    1980    India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition          --      32.0        32.00
1004-IN    1980    India   U.P. Tubewells                --      18.0        17.52
l)ll-IN    1980    India   Gujarat Irrigation II         --    175.0        175.00
1027-IN    1980    India   Singrauli Thermal I- 1-              300.0       285.56
1012-IN    1980    India   Cashewnut                     --      22.0        21.95
1028-IN    1980    India   Kerala Agricultural
Extension                 --     10.0        10.00
1033-IN    1980    India   Calcutta Urban
Transport                 --      56.U        56.00
1034-IN    1980    India   Karnataka Sericultur e    --          54.0        54.00
1046-IN    198o    India   Rajasthan 'Water Supply
and Sewerage              --      80.0        79.88
1843-IN    1980    ICICI   Inaustry DFC XIII           100.0      --         93.14
1887-IN    1980    India   Farakka Thermal
Power                    25.0      --         25.0U
1053-IN    1980    India   Farakka Thermal
Power                     --    225.0        225.00
1897-IN    1980    India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development         30.0     --          30.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   borrower       Purpose                Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
1072-IN    1980      India   Bihar Rural Roads          --          35.0        35.00
1078-IN    1980      India   hatianadi Barrages         --          83.0        83.00
1925-IN    1980      India   Bombay High Offshore
Development           400.0         --        400.00
1082-IN    1981      India   Madras Urban Dev. II    --             42.0        42.00
Total                                            2,833.0    8,671.6
of which has been repaid                       1,065.7        73.6
Total now outstanding                            1,767.3    8,598.0
Amount Sold                          133.8
of which has been repaid           128.1            5.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                1,761.6    8,598.0
Total undisbursed                                   951.1   3,599.4
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX I1
Page 5 of 18
B. STATEMIENT OF IFC INVEST14EiTS
(As of ilarch 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5        -         1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9        -         0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2        -         0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4      1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       hlahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6        -         6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0       1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5       1.1       8.6
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -       38.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMlITMENTS         99.1       11.5    110.6
Less:   Sold                           25.9        1.7     27.6
Repaid                        20.8         -       20.8
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      46.2        8.5      54.7
Undisbursed                   44.0        1.1      45.1



ANNLX II
Page b of 16
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to US$538 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
February 28, 1981 totalled US$454 million, representing an increase of about
47% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$4,551
million as of February 28, 1981, reflects the lead time which would be
expected given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India
program.
Ln. No. 1097  Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475  Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843  Thirteenth Industrial Credit ana Investment Gorporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance the
foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a well-
managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Loan 1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of
schedule. Disbursements under Loans 1475 and 1843 are also ahead of
schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to
report any problems which are being encountered and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluatiol
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites. How-
ever, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected to
be completed until 1985, as a result of delays in the employment of consul-
tants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical specifi-
cations and tenders and the construction itself. The project is currently
under review by the Government of India and some changes to its scope may be
made in April 1981.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last two
seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled for
completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
July 1980, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the sixth project were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-
project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped.
Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378   Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress is satisfactory. As of December 1980, construction of the 39 mark-
ets originally envisaged under the project was almost completed, and trade
had shifted to more than half of these.  An additional eight markets have
been included in the project at the request of the State government, and
these are expected to be completed by June 1981. The credit is expected to
be fully disbursed by the closing date of June 30, 1981.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable it
to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable pro-
gress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving educa-
tional objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional atti-
tudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters. Changes
to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project Director and
others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting efforts to
remove them.
Cr. No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. All works have been
successfully completed except for the projects sewege pumping stations.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation
of Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to
schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848
is progressing satisfactorily. Implementation of Credit 1046 is proceeding
satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been prepared for rural
schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban schemes have been com-
pleted.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical exe-
cution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that dis-
bursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time of
appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made to
closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power shor-
tages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is gen-
erally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most com-
ponents. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in con-
struction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about 15
months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1914; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 19/8; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State.  More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects
(Karnataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is
good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satis-
factory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint
to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project,
three subprojects with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 mil-
lion have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight
subprojects are in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance



ANNEX II
Page 1l of 18
procurement of dairy equipment is well underway though disbursements have
been slow, mainly as a result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532   Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
T975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding.  Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1919; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory with the exception of the Periyar Vaigai Project
(Cr. 720-IN) where cost overruns have occurred due to substantial increases
of both quantities and unit cost over the original engineers' estimates.
Specific efforts are now underway to redesign this project so that it can
still achieve its original objectives. Difficulties had also arisen earlier
in connection with the Nagarjunasagar component of Loan 1251, where water
losses proved to be higher than anticipated. Additional assurances have been
obtained from the State Government concerned, regarding the enforcement of
cropping patterns and the sequence and timing of main canal construction and
lining, which should ensure that this project will also achieve its objec-
tives.
Cr. No. 541   West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project is not
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date, and GOI's request for an
extension is expected.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 197/I Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular, significant gains
have been made under the projects.  In West Bengal, where a change in govern-
ment brought a review of the organizational principles underlying the new
extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a
Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the pro-
ject, revised implementation plans have been prepared, and project activities
are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and
managerial posts, have hampered project implementation, although progress in
areas where regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy
of the system itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under
the Composite Agricultural Extension Project, important early administrative
and financial steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation
of the reorganized extension system and field work is off to a good start.
In Kerala, project implementation has just begun.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this pro-
ject was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the Project
Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commitment of
funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased to
make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 19/9; Ettective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
As of October 1980, when the project was last reviewed, construction
of godowns was progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh,
although some delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Consultants had
been recruited to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in strengthening
their institutions, although some consultants were yet to be recruited in
Haryana. Disbursements have been progressing well and are now ahead of the
appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. The project is still at an early stage
of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The pro-
jects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; USS18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1-978; Effective Date: December 20,7719,78;Cosing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the second
project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being
reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: January 31, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses in
September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in
November 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
have been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a result,
the loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic management
civil works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satis-
factorily. Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfac-
torily, a good start having been made on the important early procurement
steps.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Construction is scheduled to begin in May 1981 on the firsts
phase of this project designed to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural
roads and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part
of the State's overall rural development efforts.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when these projects were last reviewed, the harbor
construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had encountered delays,
although the problem with shortages of cement supplies had been overcome. In
Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Nizampatnam
were under way and the pace of implementation had increased at all three
sites.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed to
increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries, improve-
ments to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the establish-
ment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980. The
initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of State
Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project monitoring
units, are progressing satisfactorily. Site selection and hatchery design
work is under way.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1917; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and        US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission.
Loan 1648/Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and
Loan 1887/Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these power sta-
tions. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the
Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the fore-
cast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power
projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and Korba, construc-
tion works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred
in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This project provides continued support to the Rural Electrification
Corporation's lending program, and is helping to finance about 1,700 rural
electrification schemes in fourteen State Electricity Boards (SEB), including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is progressing satis-
factorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Expected Effectiveness Date:
March 13, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of moth-
ers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works have
started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pra-
desh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 21, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on this project.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded. Pro-
gress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding well with encouraging progress
in all components.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The National Cooperative Development Corporation
(NCDC) in association with the nine participating
State Governments and the cooperative organizations
concerned. Advisory support was provided by the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
June 1979; October 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 13, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 31, 1981
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  GOI will establish a suitable financial agreement with
NCDC as a condition of effectiveness (para 59).
(b)  Building designs and construction standards for godowns
and cold stores will be satisfactory to the Association
(para 48).
(c)  Subproject appraisal criteria to be applied by parti-
cipating banks in respect of godown and cold store
loans will be as agreed between NCDC and the
Association (para 54).
(d)  NCDC will submit copies of annual work programs and
budgets for the participating banks and NCDC before
each financial year (para 55).
(e)  NCDC will require that recovery rates for participating
banks meet a level previously agreed by GOI and the
Association in order to remain eligible for loan
refinancing (para 51).
(f)  GOI will cause participating banks and State Cooperative
Marketing Federations to increase staff during the first
year of the project as agreed with the Association
(para 53).
(g)  NCDC will provide to the Association quarterly project
monitoring reports, annual evaluation reports, and a
project completion report (para 56).



IBRD 15430
JN..U.S S. R                     U-       S S. R                                                                                91-JANUARY 19A1
INDIA
'NJ                                   ~~~~~NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC                                                                                               ___    CCOONPOEARS
OF                                                     ,         2'.                                             NCDC I GODOWN PRtOJECT AREAS
AFGHANISTAN            "        ~           .....                                                                        CCBGDW  RJC  RA
~~ .2            A~i  S, -y'                                                                      NCDC U1 COLDOSTO RASE PROJECT AREAS
-JAMMU and KASHMIR7                                                     A      STATE AND UN ION TE RRITORY CAPITALS
I .      I                                             S     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
f  *'...         . ..,'    '2                                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TATE ARE SIONSTERRITORY ROUNDARIES
~~iK:.x<.-~~~~~~..~~~, ~~                          NTERNATIONAL_ ROJOARIES
A,nS~~~~~~~~~~                           0~~~       100       2SC      300       4,00
/V
'N          'I             Y~~~~'-'  /  BHUTAN
MEqHA~LAY.                    AtflU
GUJARAT                        ~~MADHYA PRADESH                                                                              V
GUJ)IRARATAK
NanSaloreR ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~ ~               UR     
Arab,~ ~ ~~~~........r.n..                                                                                                                                       20a AAT
IRA                                                                                                2ay    of  8eng                                            AND,..... . ..
..... . . ......~ ~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PICRNA                                             IA
. ... ........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II.EO
TAY  SaRN.,  RS0,,,,Oa.. .           .......... ....
AAAOASR*USAR,,ORSAAR EAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....
AAea'eonanatanasaaA.....    ..             .....    .  
A WEAIAS 4,0  AUAADA4  -         ....   ....
~~ AflRAPASA(WA ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        D.R
TAO  -        ~~~RRNDES



