Document of
The World Bankea
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3300a-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
April 17, 1981
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recilpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1                =     Rs 8.0
Rs 1                     US$0.125
Rs 1 million (M)   =      US$125,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units are used.
1 kilogram (kg)               =      2.20 pounds
I metric ton (ton)            =      1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
1 quintal                     =      100 kg
1 meter (m)        .                 1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)              =      0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         2      =      2.47 acres
I square kilometer (km )      =      0.386 square miles
INDIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
Kharif season   -   Monsoon season
(May to October)
Rabi season      -   Dry season
(November to April)
1/   The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.  Conversions in
this report have been made at US$1 to Rs 8.0, which was the long-term
projected rate made by IDA at the time of appraisal, October 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVTATIONS
APSCMF    -    Andhra Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing Federation
ARDC      -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
BENFED    -    West Bengal State Cooperative Marketing Federation
BISCOMAUN -    Bihar State Cooperative Marketing Union
CWC       -    Central Warehousing Corporation
DCCB      -    District Central Cooperative Bank.
FSS       -    Farmers Service Society
FCI       -    Food Corporation of India
GOI       -    Government of India
GOS       -    State Government
HAFED     -    Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation
HIMFED    -    Himachal State Cooperative Marketing Federation
IAS       -    Indian Administrative Service
IDC       -    Indian Dairy Corporation
IFFCO     -    Indian Farmers' Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd.
LAMPS     -    Large-size Agricultural Multi-purpose Cooperative Society
:ARKFED   -    Punjab Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation
MPSCMF    -    Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing Federation
MSC!F     -    Maharashtra State Cooperative Marketing Federation
NAFED     -    National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation
NCCT      -    National Council for Cooperative Training
NCDC      -    National Cooperative Development Corporation
NCUI      -    National Cooperative Union of India
PACS      -    Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society (also known as
Mini Bank and LAMPS)
PCS       -    Primary Cooperative Society (general)
PCC       -    Project Coordination Committee
PLDB      -    Primary Land Development Bank
PCF       -    Uttar Pradesh Cooperative Marketing Federation
PMS       -    Primary Marketing Society
RBI       -    Reserve Bank of India
RCMS      -    Regional Cooperative Marketing Society
RCS       -    Registrar of Cooperative Societies
SCB       -    State Cooperative Bank
SCMF      -    State Cooperative Marketing Federation
SLDB      -    State (Cooperative) Land Development Bank (generic form
for all land banks)
SIC       -    State Warehousing Corporation
This ocument hu a rztricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents fmy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Table of Content<;
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ...................................1........... 
II.   AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND COOPERATIVES ...........         ...1...... 
Agriculture ........ 0 .         ..........................1...... 
Agricultural Services and Cooperatives .            .................  2
Bank Group Involvement with Agricultural Cooperatives ...    4
III.   PROJECT INSTITUTIONS ............... .......    5
National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)                    5
NCDC's Sources of Funds and Lending Operations ..# .......    6
Operating Results .......................................................  7
Financial Position ...... ............................                 7
State Cooperative Banks (SCB) ...........................    7
SCB Organization and Management               .........................    8
SCB's Lending Operations and Recovery Record ............              8
Participating SCB  .....  .. ....................................      9
State Land Development Banks (SLDB) .....................   10
State Cooperative Marketing Federations (SCMF) ..........             10
Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS) ... ....   11
Cooperative Training ........................ 0 ...........   11
IV.   THE PROJECT ..........          ...................................   13
Project Objectives and Rationale  ..........            .........   13
Project Description .........................................   15
Godown Designs and Specifications .................                   ........   16
Cold Store Design and Specifications ..........          ...........   17
Land for Godowns and Cold Stores .... ....................    18
Transport and Other Equipments  ...- ....................   18
Cost Estimates ....... ............... ...................    18
Project Financing ......................................    20
Lending Te-rms .................. *............ 0..........    21
Procurement       ......................................    23
Disbursements ... ...................................    24
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. T. Turtiainen, S. Thillairajah, N. Cooke (IDA), H.M. Steppe (FAO/CP),
and L. Parks, M. Parrish and A.R. Trott (Consultants).



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......... .. . . .  .............  ....... . .    24
Implementation Organization .............................   24
Cooperative Societies (RCMS, PCS and PACS) ..............    25
State Cooperative Marketing Federation (SCMF) ............            25
Participating Banks ......            ..........................    26
Role of NCDC ......... ....f......... ............................    26
Project Coordination .............                            ....    27
Technical Assistance .........* ...........   *......... *...   27
Subproject Preparation and Appraisal  ....................   28
Training and Manpower ...........           ...    ........*.    30
Monitoring and Evaluation            ...............................    31
Accounts and Audit ....           ..................................    31
Implementation Schedule ......... . .... .. . . .... . .. . . . .. . .  .   32
VI.   USE OF PROJECT FACILITIES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ..o ......   32
Potato Marketing and Prices .............................   32
Incremental Storage and Marketing Capacity  *            .............   33
Financial Projections for Godowns .....           ..................  34
Financial Projections for Cold Stores .........*..........   35
Cash Flows ..............................                             36
Cost Recovery . .....         ... . ............................ *.*.  36
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................   37
Economic Rate of Return ....... ..... .    ............ ........ . .   37
Godown Component ....... .   .........        ........... ... ......  37
Cold Storage and Marketing Component ............. . ......   39
Employment Effects .........          .............................    40
Project Beneficiaries . ............ ..................    40
Other Benefits ......... ............  0... ....0.....................   41
Role of Women ....o............ ...................................   41
Environmental Effects ..O .... .   ........ .   -...0.0 ........   41
Project Risks ........ ...................................    ...   42
VIII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............   42
ANNEXES
1.   Project Tables and Charts
2.   Disbursement Schedule
3.   Subproject Outline and Criteria
4.   Project Evaluation and Monitoring
5.   Documents and Data Available in the Supplementary
Data Volume and Project File
MAP  IBRD 15430



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      In February 1979, an IDA credit of $30 million was provided to the
Government of India (GOI) to help the National Cooperative Development Cor-
poration (NCDC) finance a rural cooperative godown project in the States of
Haryana, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh. GOI has requested a second credit for
NCDC, amounting to US$125 million, for the purpose of extending the rural
godown 1/ project to several other States and to finance construction of
potato cold storage and marketing facilities in the main potato producing
States.
1.02      GOI attaches high priority to agriculture and rural development
and relies heavily on the cooperative sector to foster this development and
to achieve a more equitable distribution of growth benefits. Rural coopera-
tive service centers and the marketing network supporting them are essential
elements of the Government-supported development efforts. NCDC, which is the
apex cooperative financing institution, is the natural choice for the financial
intermediary for the construction work required. The potato cold storage and
marketing component of the proposed project arose from requests by several
Indian States to NCDC for assistance in financing a large number of cold
stores to meet the vastly increased demand for such facilities.
1.03      The project was prepared by NCDC in association with the State
Governments (GOS) and cooperative organizations concerned and with advisory
support from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. This report is based
on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission whtich visited India in October
1980, and consisted of T. Turtiainen, S. Thillairajah, N. Cooke (IDA);
H. M. Steppe (FAO/CP); L. Parks, M. Parrish and A. R. Trott (Consultants).
II. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AtD COOPERATIVES
Agriculture
2.01      Agriculture (including crop production, animal husbandry, forestry
and fishing) is the dominant sector of the Indian economy, contributing about
42% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and accounts for about
60% of exports. During the last decade, India. has succeeded in raising food-
grain production by accelerating irrigation development, increasing the use
of fertilizers, plant protection chemicals and high yielding seed varieties,
and improving research, extension and other agricultural services. The long-
term trend in the rate of growth in agricultural production lies in the
vicinity of 2.5% per annum. The more recent growth rate between the years
1973 and 1978--before the adverse weather conditions of 1979/80--was signi-
ficantly higher, at 4.3%.
1/   Godowns in this context are complexes consisting of offices and storage-
cum-marketing facilities.



- 2 -
2.02      If the economy as a whole is to grow sufficiently, unemployment and
underemployment reduced, and greater equity in income distribution achieved,
performance within the agricultural sector will continue to be of primary
importance. In recognition of this, GOI has given high priority to the
agricultural sector in the Sixth Five-Year Plan, covering the period 1977/78-
1982/83. However, because of the limited scope for bringing new land under
cultivation (annual growth has been only 0.8% between 1969-79), future incre-
ments in agricultural production must come primarily from increases in land
productivity and from diversification of production. Since the domestic
foodgrain situation has improved significantly in recent years, diversifica-
tion is likely to become an increasingly important means of expanding farm
production. India has already directed resources to the development of crops
and produce other than those grown most commonly in the past. Diversified
agricultural activities include horticulture, tree crops, livestock, marine
and inland fisheries, forestry, oilseeds and, more recently, potato growing,
which has had an average annual production growth rate of 13% between 1974/75
and 1978/79.
Agricultural Services and Cooperatives
2.03      Successful agricultural production requires effective farm input
services and post-harvest arrangements. The activities of particular import-
ance in the current agricultural development situation in India include
storing of crops (and farm inputs), cold storing of perishable produce, and
their processing and organized marketing. Among other things, GOI's policies
aim at making available to farmers more readily a complete package of agricul-
tural inputs, including credit, appropriately supported by improved extension
services and research. A key element in this strategy is the development of
cooperatives, particularly village level cooperative societies which, in much
of rural India, are the only institutions situated within reasonable distance
to provide the credit and other inputs and post harvest facilities necessary
to help farmers progress towards the use of improved technology.
2.04      The history of the cooperative movement in India goes back over 70
years, although the greatest effort to develop cooperatives as a major means
of providing both rural and urban services has been made by GOI after gaining
independence in 1947. While the performance of cooperatives to date has been
uneven, the system as a whole has reached a stage of development where the
movement can be used as an effective tool for economic and social development.
There are about 300,000 cooperative societies with a membership of more than
90 million families, making them the largest cooperative movement in the world.
2.05      In the States, the cooperative infrastructure for marketing and
short and medium-term credit is organized under a three-tier system. At
the village level, Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS) provide
essential credit, supply and procurement services. The PACS are members of
District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCB) and also of Regional Cooperative
Marketing Societies (RCMS) located at the Block 1/ headquarters and in
important rural marketing centers. At the tertiary State level, the State
1/   Blocks are administrative and planning units of about 100,000 people.



- 3 -
Cooperative Bank (SCB) and the State Cooperative Marketing Federation (SCMF)
support the secondary level cooperatives. Wit:h total lending of Rs 1,928
million at the end of FY1980, NCDC is the major financing and promotion agency
for cooperative enterprises at the national level. In the cooperative market-
ing sector, the National Agricultural Cooperat:ive Marketing Federation (NAFED)
is the supporting apex organization.
2.06       Although the cooperatives function in the agricultural, industrial
and commercial sectors, their greatest impact is in the agricultural sector,
particularly in providing short-term credit arnd farm inputs to farmers. The
gross value of agricultural input and commodity marketing by the cooperatives
in 1977/78 was well in excess of Rs 20 billion (US$2.5 billion). Short and
medium-term agricultural credit granted and outstanding in the same year was
more than Rs 25 billion (US$3.1 billion). The long-term cooperative credit
structure serving the farmers comprises State Land Development (or Mortgage)
Banks (SLDB) which function through branches cr affiliated Primary Land
Development Banks (PLDB). They provide loans for periods ranging from 5 to
15 years for agricultural development.
2.07       The financial position of most cooperatives has never been strong.
The weakest links in the structure have been the primary credit and marketing
societies. Until the early 1970s, many PACS were small in terms of member-
ship, financial resources and volume of business and consequently were unable
to pay for competent and full-time management. Government's concern over poor
performance by cooperatives led to several policy changes. Most significant
of these were the decisions to amalgamate small primary cooperative societies
to make them large enough to be viable, and to change the character of the
primary societies from mere credit or specialized institutions into multi-
purpose cooperatives. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) was instrumental in
effecting these changes, and in collaboration with the individual State
Governments (GOS), has prepared special plans for most States. Consequently,
the mid-1970s witnessed a decrease in the number of primary agricultural
cooperative societies from 175,000 in 1973 to 130,000 in 1978.
2.08       The cooperative movement in India receives the active support,
participation and influence of the Central and State governments, both directly
and through national and State institutions established by GOI and GOS. The
Central Government body having overall responsibility for the cooperative
sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. In each State,
promotion and supervision of cooperatives is in the hands of the Registrar of
Cooperatives and his staff. The support received, although broadly regarded
as necessary even among the cooperators, also includes a relatively high
degree of governmental intervention, e.g., in the form of regulated prices
and commission fees that tend to impair the development of cooperatives. The
policy of GOI and GOS is to gradually reduce governmental control; in practice,
there are no signs of such a relaxation. Government intervention at times has
been very extensive.
2.09       The institutions most concerned with the proposed project are NCDC,
NAFED, SCB, Cooperative Federations, PACS and State Registrars of Cooperative
Societies (RCS). Others of major significance in the cooperative sector are:



- 4 -
National Cooperative Union of India (NCUI) established in
1929 for promotion, research, education, training, national
and international liaison, public relations, and dissemina-
tion of information;
National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) set up by GOI in 1965
to provide technical, engineering, research, training, advisory
and support services for development of India's dairy industry.
NDDB, in conjunction with its financial affiliate Indian Dairy
Corporation (IDC), concentrates on extending finance and
services to cooperative dairy development projects;
Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd (IFFCO) set up in
1968 to undertake manufacture and marketing of fertilizer;
-    National Federations of State Land Development Banks and
and State Cooperative Banks which coordinate the short-,
medium- and long-term credit activities in the cooperative
sector; and
-    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
established in 1963 to enlarge term credit available for
agricultural investments and to improve lending standards
within agriculture.
Bank Group Involvement With Agricultural Cooperatives in India
2.10      Together with ARDC, long-term cooperative credit institutions--
SLDB--have been the main implementing agencies in the 11 agricultural credit
projects financed by IDA since the late 1960s, which have supported agricul-
tural lending in individual States. The dominant role of SLDB in IDA-financed
agricultural credit projects continued in the series of all-India agricultural
credit projects, ARDC I-III (1976-81) 1/, until very recently when the commer-
cial banks became larger beneficiaries than SLDB in many States under these
credits. Several of these projects have also included some agricultural
cooperative societies, but more direct emphasis on the exclusively cooperative
approach has been through the four dairy projects financed by IDA since 1973. 2/
2.11      One of the Bank's key activities in the agricultural sector is
to support post-harvest activities and storage of agricultural commodities,
largely through cooperatives and the Food Corporation of India (FCI). In the
cooperative sector the first major effort was in 1979 when IDA financed a
godown project of a very simple design, for which NCDC is the prime implement-
ing agency (NCDC Project, Cr. No. 871-IN). The purpose of this project is (i)
to construct and rehabilitate about 8,200 godowns for multipurpose PACS and
over 400 godowns for RCMS and Federations with a total storage capacity of
1/   ARDC I (Cr. 540-IN), ARDC II (Cr. 715-IN) and ARDC III Credit Projects
(Cr. 947-IN).
2/   National Dairy (824-IN), Madhya Pradesh Dairy (522-IN), Karnataka Dairy
(482-IN) and RaJasthan Dairy (521-IN) Projects implemented by NDDB and
IDC.



- 5 -
1.08 million tons; and (ii) to transform NCDC from what had been essentially a
conduit of funds from GOI to GOS into a more promotional and sound development
finance company specializing in the cooperative sector. In the project IDA
finances 47% of the US$63 million project costs, NCDC adds 28% from its own
funds and the remaining part is met by the GOS and participating cooperatives.
NCDC and the other implementing agencies, SCB in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and
Orissa, are following IDA guidelines in subproject preparation and appraisal.
Thne project is progressing satisfactorily, with abcout 350 godowns (122,000
tons) completed and 1,100 godowns (192,000 tons) under construction and IDA
disbursements on schedule. Repeated financial analyses during the review
missions have shown that the godowns have maintained the potential to make
them financially viable (Annex 5, A.10).
III. PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
3.01      The National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) is an
all-India public undertaking established under the National Development
Act, 1962. NCDC's main objectives are to plan, promote, develop and finance
agricultural and agro-industrial cooperatives. Under the Act (as amended in a
number of occasions up to 1974), NCDC is authorized to advance loans, provide
grants and subsidies, and participate in the share capital of cooperative
enterprises either directly or through GOS or cooperative banks. Within these
broad limits of authority, NCDC has participated in a variety of activities,
including provision of financial assistance for specific schemes sponsored
by the Central Government and directly by NCDC itself. Examples are grain
storage, sugar factories, spinning mills, distribution of fertilizer and other
inputs, agricultural produce marketing, and consumer goods trade in rural
areas. NCDC provides technical and financial support to cooperatives for
pre-investment surveys, marketing studies, feasibility studies, research
activities and strengthening management staff. It has also provided funds
for supplementing the share capital of individual cooperatives.
3.02      NCDC is governed by a General Council of 51 and a Board of Manage-
ment of 12 members. The Council is responsible for the Corporation's policy
whereas the general management is vested in the Board. NCDC's Managing
Director, who is also a member of the Board, is its chief executive. He
is supported by a General Manager, a Financial Advisor, a Specialists' Pool
and four Chief Directors in charge of storage and marketing, processing,
industries, and consumer goods and weaker sections (tribal population, harijans,
landless laborers, etc.). NCDC has a staff of about 450 including more than
100 executives specialized in cooperative and administrative management, and
technical aspects of agri-business. NCDC has seven Regional Offices 1/ and
three Project Offices. 2/ NCDC's organization structure is depicted in
Annex 1, Chart 1.
1li Located in Chandigarh, Lucknow, Calcutta, Bangalore, Poona, Jaipur and
Gauhati.
2/   Smaller offices in Bhopal, Bhubaneshwar and Patna.



-6-
NCDC's Sources of Funds and Lending Operations
3.03      The National Cooperative Development Corporation Act does not provide
for contribution of share capital. NCDC's funds consist of grants and loans
from GOI, borrowings from the market, and retained earnings. GOI makes funds
available to NCDC in the form of annual budget allocations based on provisions
in the Five-Year Plan. NCDC is also authorized to borrow from the market by
sale of bonds. First of such market borrowings was made in 1974/75 when NCDC
raised Rs 27.5 M.  This was followed by further issues of Rs 27.5 M, Rs 55 M,
Rs 110 M, and Rs 239 M in the succeeding years bringing total bonds now
outstanding to Rs 569 M. Retained earnings are credited to a capital account
styled NCDC Fund Account which had a cumulative balance of Rs 500 M on March
31, 1980. Borrowings from GOI on this date amounted to Rs 1,007 M. NCDC's
Comparative Balance Sheets and Sources and Application of Funds are summarized
in Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2.
3.04      NCDC channels loans and subsidies to client cooperatives mostly
through the respective GOS and sometimes through cooperative banks in the
State. It also lends directly to apex Federations and cooperatives with
interstate business operations (details in Annex 1, Table 3). NCDC's loan
participation in individual capital investments has ranged from 50% to 75%
of total costs, the balance being met by the borrowing cooperatives, by GOS
as loans and share capital, or by State Cooperative Banks as loans.
3.05      Since its inception and up to March 1980, NCDC had provided
Rs 3,345 M (US$418 M) for various cooperative development schemes:
Rs 2,957 M (US$370 M) as loans, Rs 307 M (US$38 M) as grants and subsidies
and Rs 81 M (US$10 M) as direct participation in share capital.  Financial
assistance provided by NCDC is for two categories of schemes--Centrally (GOI)
Sponsored Schemes and NCDC Sponsored Schemes. The former provides loans for
programs particularly promoted by the Government and include margin money for
fertilizer distribution, special programs for underdeveloped States and for
investments in agro-industries. NCDC schemes include storage, distribution,
marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs and consumer goods. NCDC also
finances from its own funds, as grants, numerous promotional activities,
including training programs. Centrally sponsored schemes accounted for 46%
of disbursements during the last five years, the remaining 54% being NCDC
schemes (Annex 1, Table 4).
3.06      Loans outstanding at March 31, 1980, totalled Rs 1,928 million
(US$240 million). About 87% of this was owed by GOS, 11% by SCB and 2% by
other cooperatives, roughly the same as the disbursement pattern. All loans
to SCB and SCMF are guaranteed by the GOS concerned. NCDC's loan recovery
record has been excellent. Loan repayments by borrowers 1/ are recycled by
further lending. The annual cash inflow from loan repayments between 1980/81
and 1984/85 is expected to average Rs 545 M (Annex 1, Table 5).
1/   After meeting repayment obligations to GOI on NCDC's own borrowing.



- 7 -
3.07      Overdue loans are insignificant.  Three loans totalling Rs 3.82 M
(including interest accrued) were overdue as on March 31, 1980. Two of these
were overdue less than one year. Only one loan of Rs 1.93 M is overdue more
than three years. There is no specifically designated reserve for bad debts.
It is considered to be an unspecified component of the NCDC Fund Account.
Operating Results
3.08      NCDC has had a very impressive record of operating results.  Inte-
rest income increased from Rs 43 M in 1975/76 to Rs 142 M in 1979/80. Excess
sf income over expenditure also increased during this five year period--from
about Rs 10 M to Rs 40 M. 1/  A comparative statement of NCDC's Income and
Expenditure for the five year period from 1975/76 is given in Annex 1, Table 6.
Financial Position
3.09      NCDC is in a strong financial position.  Almost all of NCDC's loans
are given either directly to GOS or on guarantees provided by them. NCDC Fund
and Reserves at March 31, 1980, amounted to Rs 560 million (US$70 million).
As of that date, GOI was NCDC's major creditor with just over Rs 1,000 M
(US$125 M) outstanding; market borrowings were Rs 569 M (US$71 M).  NCDC is in
a position to build on its present strength and is financially fit to handle
the development program proposed under the Sixth Five-Year Plan (Annex 1,
Table 7).
State Cooperative Banks
3.10      The State Cooperative Bank (SCB) in each State is the apex institution
in the three-tier short- and medium-term cooperative credit structure. There
are 26 such SCB in India. All DCCB within a State are shareholders in the
apex SCB, and provide funds for credit to the village level cooperatives based
on limits prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). SCB are essentially
bankers for their member DCCB and Cooperative Federations in the State. SCB's
functions include:
-    financing DCCB and other cooperative institutions;
-    carrying on the general business of banking;
-    acting as a balancing center for surplus funds in the State;
-    arranging supervision and inspection of DCCB;
-    providing training facilities; and
-    promoting principles of cooperation.
!/  Excluding grants received from GOI and grants given out by NCDC.



- 8 -
3.11      SCB compete with commercial banks in mobilization of deposits but
they are virtually without institutional competition in providing short-term
credit to small cooperatives and small scale farmers. SCB's borrowings from
RBI constitute usually 20-50% of the funds advanced to DCCB and other bor-
rowers in project States. With their fairly concessional interest rates of
2-1/2% to 3% below commercial bank rates on medium- and short-term agricultural
loans 1/, they have been able to maintain satisfactory profitability (Annex 1,
Table 8). Their own funds, deposits and lending have generally grown faster
than the inflation rate and the projections indicate that the trend will
continue (Annex 5, A.3). The proposed project would further strengthen the
capital base of the participating banks.
SCB Organization and Management
3.12      The general body of SCB members is technically responsible for
policy. In practice, however, it is the Board of Directors/Management Com-
mittee of the SCB which makes policy. This Board, comprising as many as
20 members, also includes the State Registrar of Cooperatives Societies and
GOS nominees. The Managing Director who is the chief executive is appointed
by the Board with the approval of RCS. The present Managing Directors of
SCB in all project States are GOS officers on deputation. They are, however,
generally competent, have experience in cooperative development, and are very
conscious of the need for good credit management.
3.13      In all project States, senior executives of SCB are generally well
qualified, and have long experience in cooperative and banking operations.
Staffing intensity varies from State to State depending on the number and
geographical scatter of districts, SCB's divisional offices and DCCB offices.
All participating SCB and GOS recognize the importance of the need for further
improvements in their organization and operational procedures. They have
accordingly requested technical assistance under the project appraised in
this report to strengthen their Long-Term Loan Departments and to set up their
own Organization and Methods Departments. 2/ Chart 2 in Annex 1 shows the
organization structure of the Haryana SCB which can be considered typical
although variations exist among the SCB in the nine project States.
SCB's Lending Operations and Recovery Record
3.14      Deposits of SCB in the project States increased over the last five-
year period, ranging from an increase of about 25% in Himachal Pradesh to 130%
in Andhra Pradesh and Bihar. A comparative statement of deposits, borrowings
and advances of participating SCB is given in Annex 1, Table 9. Overdue loans
1/   The interest rates on funds advanced to DCCB for agricultural purposes
range from 6.25-10%. The rates to other cooperatives, particularly
in the agro-industries sector, can be much higher, even 17%.
2/   Similar Technical Assistance provision for consultancy services was
made in the first NCDC Project.



of SCB have been less than 10% 1/ in all project States except in Bihar and
Himachal Pradesh.  In Bihar overdues averaged 45% during the four years 1976
to 1980. Himachal Pradesh SCB overdues were very high at 80% in 1979/80.
A comparative statement showing latest available overdues position of parti-
cipating SCB is given in Annex 1, Table 10.
Participating SCB
3.15      Recoveries performance criteria for participation of SCB in the
project would be the same as that applied to the first NCDC Project, i.e.,
recovery rate not less than 50%, with an additional objective that each
participating bank would reach a recovery rate of at least 65% (or other rate
agreed) by the end of the project period. In six project States the SCB have
overdues of only 20% or less (Annex 1, Table 8). Bihar and Himachal Pradesh
SCB do not presently meet the minimum collection requirement. In Bihar, NCDC
has proposed as an interim measure to lend direct to the SCMF (BISCOMAUN), the
only project beneficiary/borrower in the State. The financial performance of
BISCOMAUN has been satisfactory (Annex 1, Table 9.1). In the case of Himachal
Pradesh SCB, the GOS and NCDC have made a plea for leniency in the application
of the criteria during the initial years in view of unique and difficult
conditions prevailing in the State.
3.16      Himachal Pradesh which is an economically weak State is also offi-
cially classified as a cooperatively backward State. The small tracts of
arable land are hilly and lack irrigation. Consequently, cultivation is
mainly rainfed and crop failures due to droughts and excessive rain have been
a consistent phenomenon. The high value crops cultivated in the State are
fruits and potatoes which are perishable, often subject to unremuneratively
low prices during harvest times. Employment of untrained secretaries in PACS
is also a factor which has contributed to poor loan recoveries. The conver-
sion of short-term loans into medium-term loans, an acceptable procedure in
case of natural calamities, has not been extended to apple growers when the
crops have been devastated by hail storms.
3.17      Recoveries of cash credit extended to PACS by Himachal Pradesh SCB
as distinct from loans to individual farmers have, however, been very good.
The SCB has been placed under a centrally sponsored rehabilitation program.
A sample investigation carried out by the SCB of overdues covering three years
to 1978/79 revealed that more than 60% of such debts could be recovered by
determined collection measures. GOS has now agreed to (i) launch a special
intensive overdue collection campaign, (ii) provide Rs 150 M to write-off the
oldest of the uncollectable loans, and (iii) prepare a detailed rehabilitation
plan for strengthening the SCB. These measures should result in improvement
of recovery performance within the next six months, and it would be worthwhile
to allow it to participate in this project by applying a less demanding loan
recovery criteria in the initial years. As a condition of credit negotiations
an acceptable rehabilitation plan was prepared, including details of actions
for strengthening the SCB's finances and a detailed action plan for overdues
1/   Overdue loans (or recovery rate) are measured as the percentage of
"annual demand", which is the total repayments falling due during the
year plus overdues from the previous year.



- 10 -
collection. For participation in the project, it would be required that a
significant improvement, i.e., reaching a recovery rate of 35% by June 30,
1981, and a recovery rate of 45% is achieved by June 30, 1982, and 55% by
June 30, 1983.
3.18      In Maharashtra and West Bengal, the respective State Land Develop-
ment Banks (SLDB) would be the financing channels for the project rather than
the SCB. The Maharashtra SCB is an efficiently run bank with good loan
recoveries record and would thus have been eligible to participate in the
project. This SCB has, however, been reluctant to participate because it is
not interested in the kind of long-term lending business the project requires
and prefers to rely on its own resources and not to resort to external sources
of funds. The West Bengal SCB which functioned satisfactorily until 1978 has
since become weak and reportedly its recovery performance has fallen well
below the level required by the eligibility criteria. Furthermore, because
of pending legal actions against SCB's Board of Management, the Government of
West Bengal has refused to provide NCDC with the necessary State Government
guarantee which is a necessary condition for SCB participation. NCDC is not
allowed to lend through commercial banks.
State Land Development Banks
3.19      The State Land Development Banks (SLDB) are the apex cooperative
institutions engaged in long-term lending for agriculture. SLDB function
through branches or affiliated Primary Land Development Banks (PLDB). They
provide development loans for periods up to 15 years, mostly refinanced by
ARDC. The recovery performance criteria specified in this project for par-
ticipating SLDB would initially be 50%, in line with the norms prescribed
under the IDA-financed ARDC III Project. 1/ The recovery rate of the West
Bengal SLDB is 64% whereas Maharashtra SLDB's latest record is 54% on farmer
lending, 2/ only marginally higher than the 50% threshold.
3.20      To ensure consistent recoveries performance standard among various
IDA-supported credit projects in India, NCDC has ensured in negotiations that
they lend only to SCB and SLDB which have a recovery rate level acceptable to
IDA. If the recovery rate of any participating bank should go below this
level, NCDC would continue lending project funds only for completion of the
godowns or cold stores started.
State Cooperative Marketing Federations (SCMF)
3.21      These are apex institutions, generally one in each State, providing
wholesale marketing services through Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies
(RCMS) and PACS. Procurement, storage, processing and distribution of agri-
cultural inputs (mainly fertilizer) and agricultural produce (mainly food-
grains) make up most of their business volume. Each Federation is governed by
its general body of members and a Board of Directors. Managing Directors of
E -inL -all nine participatIng States are %overnment officers of the Indian
1/   ARDC III Credit 947-IN, Staff Appraisal Report No. 2404a-IN.
2/   Recovery performance is 100% on corporate lending.



- 11 -
Administrative Services (IAS), appointed on deputation. In the interest of
long-term development there is a need to establish an independent cooperative
cadre.
Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS)
3.22      Approximately 95% of Indian villages are covered by Primary Agri-
cultural Cooperative Societies (PACS).  Although the initial purpose of the
societies was to provide short and medium-term credit to member farmers,
the functions of the societies have expanded. Many of the PACS have gradually
evolved from small scale credit institutions to diversified rural service
organizations. The new activities include the stocking and distribution
of agricultural inputs, particularly fertilizer, seeds and pesticides; the
retailing of essential consumer items such as price-controlled and non-
controlled cloth, soap, pulses and kerosene; the procurement of the main
fDodgrains; and the mobilization of savings deposits.
3.23      Since 1973, GOI has had a policy of encouraging and enforcing
thie amalgamation of small societies so as to develop a base large enough to
generate sufficient business for each PACS to employ a trained manager and to
imnprove its profitability. The restructuring and consolidation has resulted
in a reduction in the number of PACS from 175,000 in 1973 to approximately
1.30,000 in 1978. In the project States, the number of PACS was reduced from
59,571 in June 1978 to 39,621 as of October 1980. Reorganization is not
complete, however, as the target number of viable societies in the project
Sitates is 30,199 (Annex 1, Table 11). The reorganized societ ies are called by
different names in the project States, such as "Mini Banks," "Nyaya Panchayat
Societies," Large-size Agricultural Multipurpose Cooperative Societies"
(LAMPS) and the "Farmers Service Societies" (FSS). Whatever their title,
they all serve as multipurpose service centers for rural dwellers and function
as focal points for rural development activity.
Cooperative Training
3.24      Cooperative training has greatly advanced in India since the early
1960s, when it was carried out under the RBI auspices as part of its agricul-
tural credit program. These training programs were conducted on a general
level and dealt primarily with cooperative principles and history. In 1962,
control was handed over to the cooperative movement and in 1976, responsibil-
ity was assumed by a reconstituted National Council for Cooperative Training
(NCCT), an autonomous organization affiliated to NCUI. NCCT is responsible
for overall planning, organizing, directing, controlling and coordinating
the entire cooperative training activities in the country.
3.25      An adequate physical infrastructure for cooperative training exists
in, India. However, the magnitude of existing and upcoming projects and
training requirements may necessitate the establishment of more training
centers as well as expansion of the curricula. At the highest level currently
is the Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Management at Pune, Maharashtra.
It serves primarily as high level management training and research center for
the cooperative sector, but the staff members also engage in collaborative
training programs with International Cooperative Alliance, ILO and FAO. A
similar training and research institution has operated in Uttar Pradesh since
1979.  About 9,>DO participants have attended courses at the two centers as
of March 31, 1980, including 485 trainees in the 1979/80 programs.



- 12 -
3.26      At the intermediate level there are 16 Cooperative Training Colleges
which provide training for mid-level management cadres who are directly respon-
sible for the implementation of the programs of the State level cooperative
organizations. Two more colleges are slated to be established in the next
five years. These colleges offer a standard Higher Diploma Course in Coopera-
tion and sectoral courses (12-15 weeks) in diverse subjects. In addition,
they are equipped to organize and offer short-term (2-3 weeks) functional
courses, workshops and seminars on the specific demand of user organizations
to meet specified needs of identified functional areas. To date, under this
short-term course program, only a few ad hoc seminars/workshops have been
offered for cold store personnel, who will be important for the proposed
project. There are also short refresher courses for cooperative trainers and
longer courses on cooperative education and training. Through 1980, 65,937
trainees have received training at the 16 training colleges. RCS officers
receive their training in the same institutions as the cooperative movement
staff. The Bankers Training College, the College of Agricultural Banking and
the RBI Staff College also offer specialized training for SCB staff. The Food
Corporation of India Staff Training College also makes its facilities available
for marketing and storage training needs.
3.27      At the society level, the State Cooperative Unions exercise respon-
sibility for training except in instances where the unions are weak, in which
cases the State Cooperative Department of the respective State assumes the
task. The 77 existing training centers operate as focal points for cooperative
training activities. GOS is the major source of funding for society-level
training. Coordination is regulated through the State or divisional level
Cooperative Training Coordination Committees or by the State Cooperative
Unions.   The most common courses offered include Basic Cooperative Principles
and functional courses such as Distribution in Consumer Cooperative Stores.
Duration of courses varies from 20 to 40 weeks according to Statewide needs.
The physical facilities of the training centers are in need of much improve-
ment. Most of the centers continue to be housed in dilapidated buildings
with outdated and unserviceable furniture. However, for the immediate future,
the centers in the project States can accommodate the expanded training needs
generated by the project.
3.28      The responsibility for cooperative member and committee member edu-
cation rests with the State Cooperative Unions. For the past 8-9 years, these
organizations have made great efforts in many States to upgrade and improve the
quality of the programs offered. However, the field training staff is still
inadequate to ensure sufficient outreach to all cooperative societies. The
training of society and committee members has received insufficient attention
in the reorganization plans of the societies. Although new courses have been
added, additional new training needs are enormous, e.g., 0.80 million society
members in Andra Pradesh, 0.15 million in Bihar, 0.25 million in Himachal
Pradesh, 0.33 million in Maharashtra and 0.88 million in Punjab as well as
70,000 committee members in Andra Pradesh, 90,000 in Bihar, 23,490 in Himachal
Pradesn, IBB,72b in -aharas'htra and 27, 0U  in nPunjab need additional traThnlng.
The resources available, however, have been far short of needs. For example,
Andra Pradesh has 43 cooperative educators, Punjab 25 and Himachal Pradesh 24.
The State Cooperative Unions, NCDC, NCUI, NCCT and the RCS are aware of the
dangers of this shortcoming and are all working together to upgrade coopera-
tive training.



- 13 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Rationale
4.01      The general aim of the Second National Cooperative Development
Corporation (NCDC II) Project is to provide credit l-o cooperatives for the
construction of godowns and cold stores, and for marketing facilities to
assist them to meet the input supply and post-harvest service requirements of
the nine participating States 1/. Through these acl:ivities the development
and expansion of cooperative institutions within the nine States would be
promoted and the capability for cooperative subproject preparation and
appraisal within the cooperative sector expanded and1 improved.
4.02      The godown component involves the construction of additional storage-
cum-office facilities at village, regional and central levels for PACS, RCMS
and the Federations, and consists of about 7,900 units with a total storage
capacity of about 1.92 M tons. These godowns would supplement those already
provided in Uttar Pradesh, Orissa, and Haryana under the First NCDC Project,
and in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan under an ongoing EEC Credit. The proposed
cold storage and marketing component, involving the construction of about 0.5
M tons of cooperative cold storage capacity (about 127 units), would support
the cooperative system in catering to its cold storage and marketing needs. 2/
These cold stores would help to improve storage methods as well as the effi-
ciency of marketing practices for potatoes and other semi-perishable produce.
Farmers would be able to market their semi-perishabLe produce more advanta-
geously, avoiding glut prices at harvest time and taking advantage of better
prices later in the year. Each godown and cold store unit to be constructed
would achieve a financial rate of return above the opportunity cost of capital
and a sufficient cash flow to allow repayment of loans in accordance with the
lending terms.
4.03      Institution building is an important aspect of the project.  Only
a few apex cooperatives have had experience in cold storage operations,
and this on a relatively small scale. The project would provide the first
opportunity for many Federations and primary cooperatives to become involved
in cold storage and the marketing of cold stored produce. Implementation of
the project would require the strengthening of staff, provision of capital,
training, and procedural improvements among all the participating cooperative
institutions.
1/   West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab, and Himachal Pradesh.
2/   While these cold stores could and would be used for a variety of
produce, potato storage would be their main function and the analyses
in this report are based on their sole use for this purpose. Other
cold stored products would have higher values; thus this treatment
is conservative in financial and economic sense.



- 14 -
4.04      The purpose of GOI's cooperative policy in the rural sector is
primarily to improve services to farmers. The village level godowqn construc-
tion program, which enhances the cooperatives' ability to provide these ser-
vices, is part of GOI's plan to strengthen and reorganize the primary level
cooperatives. Besides providing a dependable source of short-term credit and
basic consumer goods, the project storage units would make fertilizer and
other farm inputs available locally to large numbers of farmers who have
inadequate transportation facilities to obtain these inputs from distant
sources. The units would also provide convenient delivery points for farmers'
produce, and avoid the need for them to transport produce to the more distant
market centers. Additional benefits would be obtained through reductions in
the loss of farm produce and fertilizer stored in the project godowns and
stores. The need for improvements in village level storage and marketing
is well recognized in GOI agricultural policies, and has been confirmed by
the Bank Group in its Eastern Foodgrains Sector Review and in its appraisals
of the Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Credit No. 682-IN) 1/ and the
First NCDC Project. Project-financed storage would be, for the most part, at
the village and market level (6.04) and be complementary to the larger and
more central facilities provided by the Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC),
State Warehousing Corporation (SWC) and Food Corporation of India (FCI).
4.05      The inclusion of a cold storage and marketing component in the
project is based primarily on the need to provide cold storage facilities
for the large and increasing marketable surpluses of potatoes. With the
search for new cost-effective sources of nutrition, crops such as potatoes
have acquired a special significance. Production of potatoes in India has
risen substantially during the last decade, reaching 10 M tons in 1978/79.
The high output and shortage of suitable storage facilities have combined
to reduce prices to the consumer in the producing areas during the season,
simultaneously reducing grower returns. The average prices between 1973-79
were Rs 499/ton (in constant 1978 rupees) during the harvesting season and
Rs 911/ton during the off-season months (the seasonal variation was even
more marked in 1980, rising from Rs 500/ton at the time of high supply to
Rs 1,800/ton during off-season months). The record crops of 1977/78 resulted
in glut supply and reduced the producer price to Rs 230-260/ton, which is
clearly below production cost of Rs 460/ton. This brought about a lower total
potato cultivation in the following year (the 1979/80 crop is estimated to be
about 5% below that of the previous year record of 10 M tons) and a move by
farmers towards more secure but less profitable crops. Exports of potatoes
have represented only a miniscule proportion of the total potato production
and have therefore had almost no impact on the local marketing prospects. The
effects of such seasonal over-supply can only be overcome by the construction
of adequate cooperative cold storage facilities (6.05) and by the development
of related marketing mechanisms, so that the marketing period may be extended
more evenly over the entire year and adequate remuneration to small scale
potato growers may be assured.
4.06      Credit would be made available under the project for the following
purposes:
1/   Appraisal Report No. 1301a-IN.



- 15 -
(a) Credit for Cooperative Godowns
(i)  Construction of about 7,000 village level cooperative
godowns for PACS and about 900 cooperative market
godowns for RCMS and SCMF (altogether about 1.92 M
tons of storage space); and
(ii)  Purchase of vehicles and surveying equipment by agencies
involved in the promotion, design, implementation and
supervision of the godown component (Rs 6.1 M).
(b) Credit for Cooperative Cold Stores and Potato Marketing
(i)  Construction of about 0.5 M tons of cold storage
capacity in the cooperative sector (about 127 units);
(ii) Purchase of vehicles and surveying equipment by agencies
involved in the implementation of the cold storage
component (Rs 1.7 M); and
(iii) Establishment of about 18 potato marketing units including
purchase of vehicles and provision of preoperating costs
for their operations (Rs 2.3 M).
(c) Credit for Technical Assistance and Development
(i)  Technical assistance and training to improve performance
at all levels in the participating cooperative institu-
tions (Rs 6.5 M); and
(ii) Pilot projects supporting research and development in
the storing of perishable produce int India (Rs 8.0 M).
Project Description
4.07      The project would consist of a comprehensive construction program
of (i) cooperative godowns over a five-year period in five States not earlier
covered by IDA or EEC schemes, and (ii) cooperative cold stores in the six main
potato growing States. In addition, technical assistance would be provided
to help the main participating agencies develop their operations to meet the
expanded tasks satisfactorily (5.11). Of the total. 7,900 new godowns to be
constructed, 7,000 would be for PACS in Maharashtra, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh
and Himachal Pradesh. These buildings would be small units of 50, 100 or
200 tons capacity, except in Punjab where larger units may be constructed.
About half of the PACS godowns would have a manager's residence attached
(,Annex 1, Table 14.1). In these four States, SCMF and RCMF would construct
about 750 larger marketing and storage godowns of capacities ranging from
500-10,000 tons each to support the farm input supply and produce purchase
activities of the primary societies. In Bihar, only marketing godowns to be
owned by Bihar SCMF would be included in the project. Although their size
would be larger than the usual godowns owned by PACS, they would be involved
in some direct servicing of farmers and thus reduce the gap caused by poorly
functioning PACS in the State. Engineering equipment and vehicles would be
provided under the project to ensure the timely implementation of the program
(Annex 1, Tables 14.7 and 14.8).



4.08      Under thie cold, srt,orage comrponent, about 127 units would be con-
structed in six States -within a period of three years.  Of these nearly
70 would be in lUttar Pradesh, where 50% of India's potato crop is grown.
Approximately half would be owned and operated by SCMF  and the rest by
Primary Cooperative Societies (PCS;) ard RCMS,  In Biiar aid West Bengal,
PCS and RCMS5 woul(d owm a smaller percentage, 25-35% (17 and 22 stores,
respectively). The remeainder would be owned by the SCMF.I In Madhya Pradesh,
PunJab and HayaTna all new cold stores  19 in total, would belong to the SCMF
(Annex 1. Table 14.2).  The mini:mum. size of a cold store with an acceptable
level of storage fees (Rs 240/ton.) and suffici ent surplus has been determined
in financial analysis to be 4,000 tons, and only in exceptional cases would
smaller cold stores be constructedc, These would be annexes to existing cold
stores or in areas of limited growth potential,
4.09      Storage and marketing research and development activity would be
promoted through the nroiect, NCDC would male loans up to total amount of
Rs 8 M (US$1 M) to organizations, su ch as NAFED, for purposes which promote
cold and other storage development and related activities. Each of these
activities would be prepared as a separate subproject and appraised by NCDC
and reviewed by IDA. Activities are expected to include construction of
expe.imWen-al stcra e for perishable or semi-persshable produce other than
potatoes (ot-ions  pulses, peanuts, edible oils)'; construction of experimental
bulk storage for potatoes; testing of packing and grading equipment; testing
of differert insulation materials and methods in cold stores; research,
planning and coordination of cooperative potato marketing; and comparative
analyses of Indian and foreign potato market mechanisms and related study
visits. The project wou.ld also include financing of the necessary potato
marketing development at the partic.pating SCAF (6.01 and Annex 1, Table 14.7)
and technical assistance (5,11).
Godown Designs and Sefaions
4.10      All buildings would be constructed to standard designs of four
different capacities--50  100  200 and 500 tons for use by PACS, and 250 and
1,000 tons for RCMS anad SCMF.  Design drawings for all capacities were agreed
during appraisal. Facilities provided for PACS would include storage space
for fertilizer, separate from space for farm produce, space for consumer goods
storage and sales, society office, drinking wjater supply, WC facilities,
veranda, patio for meetings, and parking yard. Materials used for construction
would be mainly clay bricks, cement, steel, timber, asbestos roofing sheets
and sand. Bui1ding designs for the 250-500 ton models are shown in Annex 1,
Charts 3 and 4. 1/ Standard designs may be modified by the addition or
omission of offices or varying the size of store rooms to suit the needs of
the individual PACS or RCM.S.
I/   The model designs for 50, 100 and 2,000 ton godowns are the same as
in the (First) National Cooperative Development Project (No. 871-IN),
Annex 1. Charts 4-6. See also Annex 5, A.13.



- 17 -
4,11      The storage space of the PACS godowns has been designed for bagged
sl:orage of foodgrains and fertilizers with adequate ventilation and space for
workers to move about for hanlling. The designs are based on a norm of floor
area utilization of 1.8 ton/m . Due to the hot climate of the project area,
reinforced concrete roofing (RCC) is preferred for PACS godowns. RCC has
better heat insulation properties than asbestos roofing that would be used
for the larger godowns constructed by RMCS and SCMF. NCDC's assurance has
been obtained that building designs, specifications and construction standards
would not be changed without the agreement of IDA.
Cold Store Design and Specifications
4.12      The cold storage buildings would be of standard design, and normally
eaLch unit would be of 4,000 tons capacity, consisting of two 2,000 ton chambers
(Annex 5, A.14).  The outside measuremeits would be 26 m x 18.3 m x 14 m.  The
net storage density would be 0.30 ton/m . The design drawings were agreed
during appraisal.  The storage method would be based on bagged potatoes to
allow retaining of the identity of small potato lots for individual owners.
To avoid crushing and facilitate air circulation, bags would not be stacked
more than six layers high. To provide optimum capacity, slatted floors would
be. fitted in each store. Access to the store would be through insulated cold
store doors, one for each level, measuring about one meter wide and two meters
high, to allow passage of a laborer carrying a bag. Outside access to the
floors would be by masonry stairs or ramps to each door. While earlier
stores had an internal steel framework for the leveLs, and mainly timber
slatted floors, the rising cost of steel makes this prohibitive. Most project
stores would have a internal lattice of RCC beams and columns, with wooden
slatted storage floors and slatted or RCC gangways. To contribute to the
stability of the building, the RCC lattice beams would be attached to the
outer walls. The roofs would be mainly steel trusses with corrugated asbestos
cement sheet covering. An internal false ceiling would be required to support
the insulation. The design is shown in Annex 1, Charts 5 to 7.
4.13      Under operating conditions of 2 0C inside l:emperature and an outside
temperature often up to 40 C, the heat flow through the building fabric would
be reduced by the use of appropriate thermal insulation. The insulation most
generally used would be expanded polystyrene (XPS), made by several companies
in India. Thicknesses would be 100 mm on the ceiling, 75 mm for the outer
walls and 50 mm under the floor.
4.14      The two main refrigerants to be used would be R.717 (ammonia) and
R.22 ("Freon 22"), of which ammonia would be preferred (7.13). They are
equlally suitable for potato storage and do not harm the product, unless large
quantities of liquid escape from a burst pipe. Both are made in India. In
order to assure early detection of any possible leakages, special gauges would
be installed in every cold store.  Chilling security would meet the standards
of Lloyds Regulations, i.e., there must be at least two compressors at a
store, each of sufficient capacity to hold the store temperature at the
required level that has been reached. The coolers to be used for lowering the
temperature in the store would be of the induced draught type, located at the
lowest level.  Electric driven fans would draw the air over the evaporator



- 18 -
coil and circulate it through a duct system to different parts of the store.
An alternative cooler design that would be permitted would be the overhead
bunker coil without airducts. This system relies on the natural circulation
of cold air falling to the bottom of the store, and rising again to the
coolers when it warms up. Assurances have been obtained that the designs,
specifications and standards of project cold stores would continue to be
acceptable to IDA.
Land for Godowns and Cold Stores
4.15      NCDC and all participating GOS and SCB recognize that selection and
acquisition of suitable land for locating godowns and cold stores is vital
for success of the units under the project. Land required for project godowns
is small and finding suitable land is not expected to be a serious problem.
The land required could be as small as 0.2 ha for a 100 ton godown for PACS
and 1.0 ha for a 5,000 ton unit of the Federations. In several States, land
belonging to the village Panchayat would in many cases be transferred, free of
cost, to the PACS for this purpose. In some States, however, it is expected
that the PACS would have to purchase the land required. For practically all
Federation godowns the land would need to be purchased. This is also necessary
in the case of cold stores, which need a somewhat larger area, usually 1.5-2.0
acres, with provision for foreseeable expansion included. The land for cold
stores, however, can be located outside the market center towns and land
acquisition for part of the first year construction needs has been completed
without problems. Sufficient amounts for purchase of the necessary land have
been included in project costs and in view of the importance of availability
of suitable land, this element has been emphasized in the subproject appraisal
criteria to be followed by NCDC and SCB (Technical Criteria in Annex 3).
Transport and Other Equipments
4.16      Mobility of the executive and technical field staff of NCDC and
the participating banks and cooperatives would be essential for effective
project implementation. Loan provisions would be made under the project for
81 motor cars for executives in NCDC's Zonal/Regional offices and engineers
in SCB Headquarters and Divisional Offices, 354 motor scooters for junior
engineers and development officers to be employed by participating agencies,
and managers of the cold stores, and 3,500 pedal bicycles for about half of
the managers required for project constructed godowns (Annex 1, Table 14.7).
Motor cars would be owned and maintained by NCDC and banks, whereas the
scooters and bicycles would generally be provided to the staff under a
loan-purchase scheme.
4.17      Equipment required in connection with surveying, design drawings,
construction, supervision and payment certification of the project godowns
would also be financed under the project (Table 14.8).
Cost Zstimates
4.18      Project costs over the five year period are estimated at Rs 2,136 M
(US$267 M), of which about 10%, Rs 214 M (US$27 M), would be foreign exchange.
Duties and taxes included in total costs are estimated at about Rs 152 M
(US$19 M). Details of costs, summarized below, are in Annex 1, Table 14.



- 19 -
Summary of Project Costs /a
Total                                                % of
No. of  Capacity          Rs M                    US$M        Total
Units    Tons      Loc.    For.   Tot.   Loc.  For.  Tot.   Ex-p
Godown Component
Rural Godowns            7,000   1,052,500   669.2  74.3  743.5   83.6  9.3   92.9  34.8
Market Godowns             898      864,750   329.8  36.6  366.4   41.2  4.6   45.8  17.1
Supiporting Investments      -            -     5.5   0.6    6.1    0.7  0.1    0.8   0.3
Subtotal           7,898   1,917,250 1,004.5 111.5 1,116.0 125.5 14.0  139.5  52.2
Cold Storage and
Marketing Component
Coldl Stores               127     508,000   544.1  60.5   604.6  68.0  7.6   75.6  28.3
Marketing Facilities         -            -     2.1   0.2      2.3   0.3  0.0    0.3   0.1
Supporting Investments       -            -     1.5   0.2      1.7   0.2  0.0    0.2   0.1
Subtotal             127      508,000   547.7  60.9   608.6  68.5  7.6   76.1  28.5
Teclnical Assistance and
Development Component
Tecinical Assistance,                           5.9   0.6      6.5   0.7  0.1    0.8   0.3
Training
Research and Development                        7.2   0.8      8.0   0.9  0.1    1.0   0.4
Subtotal                                  13.1   1.4    14.5   1.6  0.2    1.8   0.7
Totail Base Cost                            1,565.3 173.8 1,739.1 195.6 21.8  217,4  81.4
Physical Contingencies                         85.3   9.5    94.8  10.7  1.2   11.9   4.5
('5%)
Price Contingencies                           271.7  30.2   301.9  33.9  3.8   37.7  14.1
Total Cost                                  1,922.3 213.6 2,135.9 240.2 26.8  267.0 100.0
Duties and Taxes                              151.7      -   151.7  18.6    -   18.6   7.1
Total Cost Net of Duties and  Taxes         1,770.6 213.6 1,984.2 221.6 26.8  248.4  92.9
/a   Incremental operational costs, although taken into account in the Economic
Analysis (7.02, 7.06), are not included in the Project Costs table, since
they are financed from the operational income.
4.19      Cost estimates of the units to be constructed are based on the
actual construction costs of similar installations to those in the project,
but updated to December 1980 (Annex 1, Tables 14.3-14.4). Physical contin-
gencies have been added at 5% of base costs except in Himachal Pradesh, where
extra topographical contingencies have been added at the rate of 10%. Price
contingencies totalling 17.3% of the base costs are calculated in accordance
with Bank estimates of future price inflation in India. I/
1/   Currently estimated as follows:  1981 at 9%; 1982 at 8%; 1983-85 at 7%.



- 20 -
Project Financing
4.20      An IDA Credit of US$125 million, representing 50% of the total
project costs, net of duties and taxes, is proposed. The IDA credit would
cover about 47% of the proposed investments. The remaining about 53% would be
met by participating cooperatives, governments of the project States and NCDC.
NCDC financing would be partly in the form of loans to participating banks
and partly as loans to GOS to be passed to beneficiary cooperatives as equity
contributions. The financing pattern proposed under this project follows
the practice under the ongoing NCDC I project, except that the GOS equity
contribution to the godowns would be increased from 15% to 25%.
Financing Pattern
NCDC I            NCDC II
Godowns     Godowns   Cold Stores
(%)         (7           (%)
NCDC
Loans to participating banks          60           50           60
Loans to GOS for equity
contributions                       15           25           15
GOS
Equity contributions
from State budget                   20           20           20
Beneficiaries
Own contribution of the
borrowing cooperatives               5            5            5
100         100           0
4.21      NCDC has proposed a minor change in the financing pattern to allow
an increased GOS equity contribution to the godowns component in this project
because of rapid escalation of construction costs since the appraisal of NCDC
I Project and the consequent need to ease the debt servicing burden on the
beneficiary cooperatives. Costs have escalated 35 to 40% during this inter-
vening period making it difficult, particularly for smaller and weaker PACS
and those in areas with lesser potential, to meet the financial criteria
specified for subproject appraisal. These include requirement of at least 50%
repayment record to the DCCS, 10% minimum return on the project investment and
a cash flow projection which permits completion of loan repayment in 15 years
(Annex 3). The proposed change would enable the borrower cooperatives to
change the debt/equity ratio to 1:1 instead of 1.5:1 and ease the debt burden
in the initial years. NCDC has confirmed that the variance of percentages
between NCDC I and NCDC II for godowns, and that between godowns and cold
stores components in this project, would not cause complaints or problems
since it is already financing several schemes providing different proportions
of costs and at varying interest rates. In line with the existing practice
in Himachal Pradesh and in view of the weak agricultural potential and little
turnovers available for godowns in the hilly areas, GOS would provide to
cooperatives a special capital grant of up to Rs 20,000 to make the invest-
ments financially viable.



- 21 -
4.22      Based on the financing pattern indicated in the foregoing table, the
project costs would be met by various participants as follows:
Project Financing Table
% of Project
Costs          Rs M          US$
NCDC through SCB/SLDB, as loans to
beneficiary cooperatives
(representing IDA Credit)                    47.0          1,000.0        125.0
NCDC through SCB/SLDB, as loans to
beneficiary cooperatives
(NCDC's own funds)                            6.5            140.5         17.5
NCDC to GOS, as loans for equity contri-
bution to beneficiary cooperatives           21.5            461.4         57.7
GOS from State budget funds /a                 20.0            427.2         53.4
Beneficiary cooperatives                        5.0            106.8         13.4
Total                                    100.0          2,135.9        267.0
/a   GOS to provide this as equity to beneficiary cooperatives.
Lending Terms
4.23      IDA credit to GOI would be on standard terms.  GOI would onlend the
proceeds of the IDA credit to NCDC under a financial agreement which would be
in accordance with terms and conditions published by the Department of Banking
of GOI's Union Ministry of Finance. 1/  Foreign exchange risk would be borne
by GOI. NCDC's own contribution totaling 28.0% would be funded out of addi-
tional loans from GOI to NCDC, market borrowings by NCDC and from repayment
collections from past lendings. Assurances have been received from GOI that
adequate funds would be made or caused to be made available to NCDC to meet
the latter's financial commitment under this project. The establishment of
a financial agreement between GOI and NCDC acceptable to IDA would be a con-
dition of credit effectiveness.
4.24      NCDC's lending until January 1979, when it commenced implementation
oE the first NCDC Project, was mostly through GOS who onlent to ultimate bor-
rowers. GOS do not keep any margin for services or to cover lending risks.
Interest rates currently charged by NCDC to GOS vary from 9.5% for coopera-
tively developed States like Punjab and Haryana, to a preferential 8% for
"backward" States like Himachal Pradesh and Orissa. Following such practice,
loans to GOS to be passed on as equity under the first NCDC Project bear 9.5%
interest (8% in the case of cooperatively backward States). Loans to borrower
cooperatives channelled through SCB also have the same rates of interest.
NCDC charges 7.25% to the participating SCB, leaving a 2.25% margin for the
1/   Current rate of interest applicable to loans not exceeding 15 years is
6.75%.



- 22 -
latter. GOI charges 6.75% for its lending to NCDC and interest on NCDC
borrowings from the market (by issue of bonds) has averaged 6% in the last
three years. Loans would be made for 15 years, with three and five year
grace periods for principal in the case of godowns and cold stores, respec-
tively. All refinance provided by NCDC to SCB/SLDB would be guaranteed by the
respective GOS in accordance with the NCDC Act. The following statement shows
the interest rates proposed for this project compared with those of the first
NCDC Project.
NCDC I             NCDC II
Interest Rate Charged by:                      Godowns      Godowns   Cold Stores
(%)         (%)          (%)
GOI to NCDC                                      6.75        6.75         6.75
NCDC to participating SCB/SLDB                   7.25        7.25         7.50
NCDC to GOS, and SCB/SLDB to end borrowers    9.50           9.50         9.50
4.25      The margins proposed for the godowns component in NCDC II Project
would be the same as those available in the first NCDC Project, i.e., 0.5%
for NCDC and 2.25% for participating banks. NCDC's margin of 0.75% proposed
in this project for the cold stores component is justified on the basis that
NCDC has to undertake not only detailed appraisal of these subprojects, but
also a larger measure of project monitoring. In the case of the godowns
component, however, the participating banks have to undertake almost all of
the appraisal and monitoring of subprojects. SLDB in Maharashtra and West
Bengal participating in the project would receive as margins 2.25% for
godowns and 2% for the cold stores components. These margins are lower than
those on loans made to individual farmers and refinanced by ARDC. The SLDB
accept, however, NCDC's position that these margins are sufficient because
loans under this project would be relatively large, do not involve lending
to individuals, and would be made directly to the ultimate beneficiary rather
than through PLDB or SLDB branches, as under ARDC schemes. The 2% to 2.25%
provided would be an adequate compensation for their role. Calculations
indicate that the suggested margins are sufficient to secure a satisfactory
profit to participating banks (Annex 5, A.15) because the lending risk is
minimal given the realizable collateral. In some States the participating
banks have sought and been promised GOS guarantee for these loans. 1/  An
assurance has been obtained from NCDC that the terms of lending by NCDC to
GOS and SCB/SLDB and by the latter to the beneficiary cooperatives (in the
case of Bihar, by NCDC to BISCOMAUN) would be satisfactory to IDA.
4.26      Inflation in India since the appraisal of the first NCDC Project
has been between 0-16% and is now about 15%.  The Bank forecasts a long-
term trend of 7 to 8%. Therefore, the proposed 9-1/2% interest rate to
be charged the ultimate borrowers would be positive in real terms. The
onlending terms are generally comparable with those of other IDA-financed
schemes in India. The 9-1/2% rate proposed also represents an increase
1/   Uttar Pradesh SCB has requested, and apparently will get approved GOS's
guarantee for the cold storage lending. Besides the interest margin
income, a one-time construction supervision charge of 3% to 7% is paid
by the borrowers.



- 23 -
of: 2 percentage points in the case of NCDC's earlier lending to cooperatively
backward States--Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and West Bengal--and 1/2 to 3/4
pe!rcentage points in the case of the other Project States. The interest
rates under the NCDC projects would be higher than those charged by NCDC
in other States and for other types of investments. Thus, the achievement
in increasing rates for NCDC I and NCDC II investments represents a change
in the right direction.
Procurement
4.27      The project would involve relatively small expenditure at any one
time, incurred by several individual cooperatives. Contracts for godowns and
cold stores would be individually small and dispersed in time and place. Only
one or at best a few of them would be constructed by the same organization
within a given year. Even then, they would be spread widely in the nine proj-
ect States. Sufficiently large bulking would be complicated and slow down
project implementation, and, consequently, international competitive bidding
would not be practicable. Also, prompt servicing and provision of spare
parts favors local suppliers. The contracts would therefore be let on local
competitive bidding, advertised locally in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to IDA. Contracts for cold stores construction would generally be
let in three parts--structural civil works (Rs 2.8 M, or US$0.35 M), electrical
installation (Rs 0.35 M, or US$0.04 M and refrigeration installation (Rs 0.55 M,
or US$0.07 M). It would be impractical to procure compressor units under
separate tenders since it would be difficult to find reputable refrigeration
contractors willing to install compressors other than those manufactured by
them. Standby generators required for cold stores in locations with erratic
electricity supply would also be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures. Individual orders are not likely to involve large numbers of
generators (with each order not expected to involve more than five--a maximum
value of Rs 1.5-2.0 M, or US$0.20-0.25 M). A procurement of this magnitude
would not warrant ICB. There are several well established generator and
refrigeration machinery manufacturers in India. There are also many local
agents representing foreign manufacturers who would have the opportunity to
bid for such procurement. Thus, competition among suppliers would be assured.
4.28      Technical assistance services (US$0.8 M) for the most part are
expected to be available locally and would be secured in accordance with
procedures established during NCDC I Project. The vehicles for supervisory
and marketing activities (US$1.1 M) and surveying equipment (US$0.04 M) would
be procured by prudent shopping by borrower cooperatives. Selling prices of
locally manufactured vehicles are so well established that competitive bidding
procedures are not expected to result in any worthwhile price competition.
The apex Federations (SCMF) would handle their own procurement and also assist
the RCMS and PCS which are not equipped to handle such capital works. SCB/
SlDB would manage the godown construction contracts for PACS and RCMS in all
participating States except in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, where the GOS and
SCB have decided that it would be more prudent and effective to utilize the
engineering cells in their SCMF which are considered better equipped to handle
the technical aspects of godown construction (5.04).



- 24 -
Disbursements
4.29      IDA disbursements for godown and cold stores construction would
be made against NCDC's certified statements of loans made by participating
SCB/SLDB and refinanced by NCDC. IDA would disburse 85% of NCDC's refinance
to SCB/SLDB. Documents in support of these would not be submitted to IDA for
review, but would be retained by NCDC and made available to IDA for inspection
during supervision missions. During implementation of the first NCDC project,
NCDC and SCB have demonstrated that they are maintaining project accounts and
statements of expense documents according to IDA guidelines. The same docu-
ments and procedures would be used in the NCDC II Project.
4.30      Other disbursements under the credit would cover:
-    100% of the costs for technical assistance services;
-    100% of the costs for research and development; and
-    100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported items.
Disbursements against these three categories would be fully documented.
Suitable assurances in this regard have been obtained from GOI and NCDC.
4.31      In anticipation of securing IDA finance for this project, NCDC and
the participating States commenced preparatory implementation work as early
as in October/December 1979, and also sanctioned loan applications for cold
store construction. Some of the sanctioned cold stores are already under
construction. In order to relieve resource constraints and to maintain
the project implementation momentum already generated, expenditure on cold
stores and godown construction, vehicles, technical assistance, and engineer-
ing instruments procured in accordance with IDA requirements incurred after
October 1, 1980, but prior to credit signing would be eligible for IDA reimr
bursement. Such retroactive financing would, however, be limited to US$4.0 M.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 2.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Organization
5.01      As in the NCDC I Project, NCDC would be the major project agency
and would coordinate implementation activities of all participants in the
nine project States. GOS concerned would provide overall policy guidance to
participating cooperatives in each State. The cold stores and godowns would
be owned and operated by the State-level Cooperative Marketing Federations,
Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies at District level and primary socie-
ties (PACS and PCS) at village level. The Registrar of Cooperatives in each
State would, as under the ongoing NCDC I project, carry primary responsibility
tzx subptozect promotion and identification.  RCS staff would also g%ide and
assist the Secretary/Managers of RCMS, PACS and PCS in preparing subproject
and loan applications. NCDC's staff in the Regional Offices and Project
Offices and specialists from NCDC's Headquarters would give additional help
in project promotion and subproject work. SCB/SLDB in each State except in
Bihar, would function as NCDC's onlending channel and implementing agency.



- 25 -
Cooperative Societies (RCMS, PCS and PACS)
5.02      Each of these societies has a Management Board which controls business
poLicy. The Board includes at least three GOS nominees. The Board appoints a
full-time or part-time paid manager, 1/ who in consuLltation with the President,
carries on the society's business.  The manager is supported by other staff,
i.e., accountants, clerks, storekeepers, salesmen and helpers depending on the
nature and volume of business undertaken by the society. With ongoing plans
in all project States for reorganization and amalgamation of PACS it will
become possible for every society to afford a full-time manager. NCDC would
ensure that every participating society would employ a full-time manager and
provide suitable training to enable him to prepare the subproject, monitor
construction progress and to manage the society's new business profitably.
5.03      Primary Cooperative Societies in Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh
which plan to own potato cold stores would employ managerial, technical and
other staff adequate to carry on their business in an efficient manner. In
addition to a manager, each cold store unit would normally require an assistant
manager, two to three mechanics, two clerical/store hands and two to three
watchmen, altogether eight to nine permanent employees. Unskilled labor
would be employed according to seasonal needs. These societies would require
engineering advice and support from SCMF and SCB during implementation. They
would rely on SCMF's technical and marketing advisory services for help in
subsequent operations.
State Cooperative Marketing Federations (SCMF)
5.04      All SCMF are adequately staffed at executive level to handle increased
business that would result from the additional godown capacity planned under
this project. Recruitment of additional support staff to cope with the increas-
ing workload will not present major problems. Special preparatory efforts and
staffing by all SCMF would, however, be required to equip themselves to handle
the potato cold storage component. Only Haryana and Bihar SCMF have had
experience in operating a cold storage unit. Markezing of potato has been
undertaken by most SCMF during the last two years but only in a very small
scale. All SCMF, therefore, recognize the need to strengthen their engineering
divisions to include refrigeration skills and to set up a separate division to
deal with potato procurement and marketing (Annex 1, Table 15).
5.05      The efficient functioning of the cold store units would depend to
a large extent on regular preventive maintenance and on following proper
operational standards. It would be uneconomical to maintain highly qualified
technical staff at every cold store location. Such specialized staff would,
therefore, be centralized at SCMF level and their services offered to Federa-
tion cold stores as well as to client PCS on a predetermined calendar and also
during emergencies. In some project States, there are established refrigeration
consultants/firms who undertake cold store maintenance and operation under
1/   In smaller PACS and those where financial viability does not permit
employment of full-time paid managers, the Board of Management makes
do with honorary secretaries.



- 26 -
contractual arrangements. In Uttar Pradesh, where there are about 44 cold
stores already in operation and 150 new units proposed in the Sixth Five-Year
Plan, a special Federation 1/ has been set up to provide technical services to
member cooperatives. The services offered by the SCMF could supplement such
facilities already available in the cooperative and private sectors.
Participating Banks
5.06      Each SCB/SLDB participating in the project would set up a Special
Loans Department to be responsible for implementing the project. This
Department would be headed by a Chief Project Officer. The banks are making
arrangements to strengthen their staffing to be able to appraise and monitor
the cold store and godown subprojects. In seven project States the partici-
pating banks would also have engineering division to take care of the technical
aspects of the subprojects. In Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, however, the GOS
have proposed, and NCDC has agreed, that such engineering capacity should
be established in the SCMF. The SCB in these States reportedly might find
difficulties in attracting sufficiently high caliber engineering staff.
However, even in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh it has been agreed that the SCB
should employ adequate numbers of engineering staff capable of undertaking
the technical appraisal, monitoring and certification of progress payments to
construction contractors.
5.07      The engineering division in the SCB /SLDB would be headed by a
qualified Executive Engineer based at the bank headquarters. He would be
supported by Assistant Engineers, one in each of the bank's divisional offices,
and Junior Engineers or Engineering Supervisors. The bank would also employ
additional Development Officers. All these special staff would be required
to spend their time mostly in the field--some to be resident at construction
sites and others to make frequent field visits to assist client cooperatives
to prepare subprojects and related loan applications, appraise and monitor
subprojects, check construction work progress for payment, and follow up
operations after commissioning of the cold stores/godowns. The type and
intensity of staffing in each project State would depend on whether its
participation is confined to the godown component or it includes the cold
stores component as well, on the size of the construction program, and the
number and geographical spread of the project Districts. Tables 15-15.1 give
an indicative assessment of staffing requirements for the participating banks
as well as the SCMF in each State. An assurance has been obtained from GOI
and NCDC that they would cause that the participating institutions--SCB/SLDB
and SCMF--would strengthen their staffing during the first project year with
the types and numbers agreed with IDA.
Role of NCDC
5.08      NCDC, as the prime implementing agency, would be responsible for
project promotion, coordinating the activities of participating agencies and
maintaining active liaison with GOS in the nine project States. It will also
1/   Uttar Pradesh Processing and Cold Storage Federation (PACSFED).



- 27 -
monitor subproject implementation through its Regional and Project Offices by
mounting periodical special review missions from headquarters. NCDC's head-
quarters and field offices would be equipped to handle the increased develop-
ment proposed under the project. Arrangements are being made to increase
the specialized staff--civil and refrigeration engineers, project analysts--
necessary to implement the project successfully (Annex 1, Table 15). Most of
the incremental staff would be based at the headquarters in New Delhi. Some
of them would be posted to NCDC's Regional Offices--particularly in areas like
Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Maharashtra where the project program is
substantial.
5.09      As part of its coordination role, NCDC would assist in the selection
and appointment of technical ass/istance consultants for the participating banks
(5.11), monitor consultancy assignment progress and follow implementation of
consultants' recommendations. NCDC would also take the initiative to have
standard manuals prepared for Machine Maintenance, Accounts and Stock Control,
and Product Quality Control for potato cold stores in each State as well as
the necessary manuals for godowns operations. NCDC's initiatives would help
ir the standardization of procedures. Similarly, NCDC would coordinate the
efforts in each project State to strengthen market research, market development
and price information services.
Project Coordination
5.10      A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be established in each
of the seven new project States 1/ for coordination and monitoring purposes.
The PCC would be headed by the Agricultural Production/Development Commissioner.
The members of the PCC would include the State Registrar of Cooperatives,
representatives from participating banks and SCMF, and officers of the
Agriculture/Horticulture Department. An officer of appropriate seniority
would be appointed to function as PCC's executive.
Technical Assistance
5.11      Provision has been made in project costs for consultancy services
tctalling 264 man-months at the rate of a maximum of Rs 25,000 (US$3,125/man-
month) (Annex 1, Table 14.6). Consultants would be required for all other
banks participating in the project States except the SCB in Uttar Pradesh,
Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. 2/ These consultants would assist each of the
SCB/SLDB in strengthening its Special Loans/Long-term Finance Department and
seitting up a new Organization and Methods (O&M) Department. They would also
help to review the banks' staffing, accounting procedures and management
information systems with a view towards improving them by making suitable
1/   Such committees already exist in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, established
under the first NCDC project.
2i   Such technical assistance support for Uttar Pradesh and Haryana has
already been provided under the first NCDC Project and for Madhya Pradesh
under the EEC Project. For terms of reference, see Annex 5, A.16.



- 28 -
recommendations. The estimated man-month provision should enable the con-
sultants to work alongside the counterparts in the SCB/SLDB, while agreed
recommendations are implemented. Special provision of 12 man-months each
for Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and West Bengal SCB is included to enable them to
employ specialists to help speed up their rehabilitation programs and improve
management effectiveness.
5.12      Assistance would be required by cooperatives planning to build and
operate potato cold stores to prepare the recommended standard manuals (5.09),
and give the necessary induction training. The SCMF in the potato States
would also require specialist assistance in setting up a special potato
marketing division with appropriate facilities for market research, procure-
ment, and marketing logistics, market and price information system, etc.
5.13      As a national level institution and prime project implementation
agency, NCDC would have an important role in coordination of these technical
assistance services including approval of consultants before their appointment.
This would be essential not only to avoid unnecessary duplication in the
several States, but also to optimize the impact of consultants efforts by
promoting the adoption of accepted recommendations on a national scale. Suit-
able assurances in these respects have been given by NCDC.
Subproject Preparation and Appraisal
5.14      Field staff of the Departments of the Registrars of Cooperatives,
Development Officers in the participating banks, and Project Officers in
apex Federations (SCMF) would be given a project orientation by NCDC's Head-
quarters executives. RCS and SCMF in project States have already carried out
preliminary studies of potential project areas and of cooperatives that might
be interested in participating in the project program. Following up on this
work RCS staff and NCDC's Regional Managers would concentrate on project
promotion and identification of the beneficiary cooperatives.
5.15      For the godowns component, RCS's staff and SCB's Development Officers
would guide PACS managers in preparing subproject proposals and loan applica-
tions. In the case of Primary Cooperative Societies (PCS) interested in
borrowing for potato cold stores investment, a much greater involvement on the
part of RCS and SCMF would be necessary. Detailed surveys would be needed
of the proposed cold stores' areas to obtain information required to assess
the financial viability of the subproject. Such information would include
land holdings, cultivation patterns, land under potato cultivation, potato
yields and production, existing pattern of farmer behavior as to timing,
location and method of potato sales, seed needs, existing storage habits, etc.
Additionally, a survey would be conducted of potato farmers in the area to
ascertain who of them are already members of the PCS, and to identify potential
members desirous of using the proposed cold stores. In this manner, it should
be possible for the PCS to secure a tentative commitment from potential users
wc& to ensure that the -me-mbeers' share contribution necessary for the investment
would be forthcoming. Such survey would be a specialized and time-consuming
operation. Therefore, in Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh where PCS are
expected to participate in the potato cold stores program on a substantial
scale, RCS would be obliged to set aside special field staff to assist the PCS
in this preparation work. SCMF in the participating States would, however,



- 29 -
have to be adequately staffed to carry out such field studies and subproject
preparation in regard to their cold stores without much support from RCS.
NCDC's project staff would also be available to these agencies For help in
project promotion, subproject identification and preparation.
5.16      Suggested subproject report formats are given in Annex 3.  These
re!ports are designed to provide information adequate to establish the need
for the godown/cold store of the size and location planned, its financial
viability, and flow of cooperative benefits to the user farmers. All sub-
project proposals would be prepared in quadruplicate--one copy each to RCS,
SCB and NCDC--the fourth copy to be retained by the borrower. Such an
arrangement would allow all concerned parties to review the proposals
independently and concurrently, thereby avoiding undue delays.
5.17      An early review by RCS would enable the GOS to arrange for provision
oi- its own share of finance to the cooperatives concerned in a timely manner.
S(B/SLDB, the ultimate lender, would appraise the subprojects to ensure that
these are all bankable propositions. NCDC's review appraisals would have to
be completed before it could commit to provide the necessary refinance against
the loans granted by SCB/SLDB. In the case of rural godowns for PACS, unless
written notice is given by RCS or NCDC to SCB/SLDB within seven working days
of any reservations on the proposed subproject, the latter would be entitled
to assume that the other two parties would honor their financial obligations--
G()S to provide its share of the equity out of budget funds, supplemented by
borrowing from NCDC; NCDC to provide funds to GOS to be passed on as equity
to beneficiary cooperatives; and to SCB/SLDB as refinance against loans to
borrower cooperatives (4.20).
5.18      Appraisal by SCB/SLDB would include a detailed review of technical,
managerial and financial aspects and involve field investigation by its tech-
nical and banking staff. NCDC's review of PACS godown proposals would be
limited to representative samples. In the case of godowns NCDC, would carry
out comprehensive appraisal of the first five godowns of different capacities
in each of the participating States and then review the smaller godowns on
sample basis. All godowns larger than 1,000 tons and all cold store subpro-
jects would be reviewed before committing finance to the investments.
5 19      The subproject appraisal would be based on criteria established
in agreement between NCDC and IDA (Annex 3). An assurance has been obtained
from NCDC that these criteria would be applied by SCB/SLDB and NCDC in
appraising each subproject to be covered under thne project. IDA would
initially review seven cold store subprojects after NCDC has completed its
appraisal--two from Uttar Pradesh and one each from Bihar, Haryana, Punjab,
Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. Subsequently, a selected number of cold
si:ores and godown subprojects would be reviewed by IDA during follow-up field
visits. SCB/SLDB would periodically submit to RCS and NCDC statements of
loans sanctioned based on which GOS and NCDC would arrange to provide funds
for subproject execution.



- 30 -
Training and Manpower
5.20      Effective education of society members and committee members in
cooperative affairs and services would improve the utilization of project-
sponsored facilities. However, it is equally essential to the success of
the project that each godown and cold store be manned by technically qualified
and experienced staff. Over the duration of the project, approximately 7,900
godown managers would be trained (about 1,560/year) as well as about 1,700
staff members (345/year) as managers, accountants, marketing specialists,
refrigeration mechanics and refrigeration operators in the cold stores. To
facilitate this training, a Project Manpower and Training Coordinator (PMC)
(or two separate persons) would be appointed at NCDC. The major areas of
responsibility would be to ensure that job-specific training is available
and ascertaining that all personnel receive sufficient training prior to
assumption of their duties. It is also essential that the task of overall
project manpower provision and project education coordination be allocated
to suitable State-level units. To this end, a one week advisory workshop on
manpower supply and need-oriented training should be held early during the
project period for the purpose of identifying and refining specific job tasks
for key personnel and designing and evaluating programs and syllabi for their
training. Participants of the workshop should include educators, technical
specialists, managers, and trainers from project States (Annex 5, A.12).
5.21      Cooperative Training Centers located in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar,
Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Punjab would provide the training necessary
for godown managers. A modular course structure would be most appropriate
for godown staffing needs with courses offered in management and accounting,
credit, supply of farm inputs, crop storage and marketing and consumer
services. This approach would save time and costs as it would allow the
trainee to concentrate only on areas in which he needs more knowledge. It
is crucial that the training would have direct practical application to the
work of the managers. It is expected that the RCS and representatives from
the SCB/SLDB, SCMF and State Warehousing Corporations would liaise with
trainers to ensure the quality and applicability of the training.
5.22      Cold store staff would receive training in three or four training
colleges located in Haryana/Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar.
Trainers at these centers would also liaise with teachers at the Agricultural
and Technical Colleges to provide job-specific training. One to two months
courses of academic training would be offered to managers at Training Centers
adjacent to operational cold stores by using a modular approach: one-week
units in Management, Accounts for Cold Stores, Potatoes and Marketing, and
Maintenance and Refrigeration. Marketing Controllers would study such areas
as economics of storage utilization, pricing policy and storage operations.
Refrigeration Engineers and Operators would study economic operational pro-
cedures, safety requirements, maintenance and the keeping of running logs.
5.23      The effective utilization of project godowns and cold stores would
be contingent upon the services of a professional and competent staff and
interest and keenness of members. To achieve this end, training would be
accorded priority in project implementation and planned carefully in advance.
NCDC has prepared a State-wise manpower and training plan and has assured
that sufficient executive manpower will be provided for its implementation.



- 31 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.24      NCDC would have the overall respons!bility for project monitoring
and evaluation and the monitoring function would be carried out by its Storage
Division. At the State level, monitoring would be the responsibility of the
SCB/SLDB. They would send their progress reports t:o NCDC and copies of the
reports to Project Coordinating Committees (5.10), which would follow up and
supervise implementation ia the States.  Practical monitoring arrangements
ar,e discussed in Annex 4. These procedures are working well in the NCDC I
P roject.
5.25      For the evaluation function, NCDC's Board has approved establishment
and staffing for an Evaluation Unit.  This unit, already indicated during NCDC
I Project appraisal, would collect data for pre-project situation and follow
up project implementation and costs/benefits realized; identify problem areas;
assess effectiveness of participating institutions, and measure subproject
impact on the participating cooperatives and their members and the farming
community served by the cooperatives; and compare costs and benefits realized
with appraisal estimates and projections. The head of the unit would be an
economist, supported by a statistician and a cooperative specialist. The
Evaluation Unit would be independent of all other departments of NCDC, report
directly to Managing Director and work in close collaboration with its Manage-
ment Audit (internal audit) Department. Although the unit would make its own
arrangements to collect information and data required for its studies both from
project records and outside sources in the field work, it would be assisted by
the State level implementing agencies. Assurances have been obtained that
NCDC would recruit or assign qualified staff for the unit.
5.26      The monitoring reports would be prepared quarterly and evaluation
reports half-yearly and submitted to the NCDC Managing Director. NCDC would
prepare quarterly monitoring reports for IDA and copies of all evaluation
reports would be made available to IDA for information.  The Evaluation Unit
would be responsible for the preparation of the Project Completion Report.
Appropriate assurances have been obtained from GOI and NCDC on these matters.
Accounts and Audit
5.27      Project accounting and auditing procedures would be as specified
for the first NCDC project under which they are working satisfactorily. NCDC
would prepare annual budgets, quarterly progress reports, summary loan state-
ments, and annual accounts as they relate to project activities. Participating
SCB/SLDB would maintain detailed memorandum records, and ledger and control
accounts relating to subproject cycle progress incLuding appraisal, loan
approval, disbursements, contribution by GOS, interest charges, installments
due, collections, overdues and follow-up action. These records would be
reviewed periodically by IDA supervision missions. The information would be
summarized in NCDC's quarterly progress reports. Assurances have been
obtained from GOI and NCDC that copies of annual work programs and related
cost estimates would be made available to IDA before the start of each finan-
cial year.



- 32 -
5.28      NCDC's accounting system meets with statutory requirements and
follows standards acceptable to the Government Auditor General and is accept-
able to IDA. However, NCDC is making arrangements to modernize and simplify
its accounting system based on recommendations of management consultants
employed under the first NCDC project. The GOI Auditor General carries
out a statutory audit of NCDC accounts but NCDC has also appointed a firm
of Chartered Accountants to audit financial statements relating to special
projects, such as the first NCDC Project. An assurance has been obtained from
NCDC that these audit arrangements which are satisfactory to IDA would be
continued. The accounting systems employed by SCB/SLDB follow the standard
statutory reporting requirements of RBI and are adequate for effective credit
management. Annual audits of these and other participating cooperatives are
conducted by the State RCS and are considered satisfactory. Assurances have
been obtained from GOI that audit arrangements for NCDC and participating
SCB/SLDB would be satisfactory to IDA and that the audited accounts of NCDC,
together with long form and short form reports, with which GOT is familiar,
would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of their financial
year.
Implementation Schedules
5.29      Implementation of the godown component would be spread fairly evenly
over the five-year project period, and would take account of the preparedness
of each State to commence actual construction work (Annex 1, Table 14.1).
In three States--Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Punjab--the subproject
"initiation" (preparation, appraisal and loan formalization) for the work for
the first six-months of the project period is expected to be concluded during
the preproject year (October 1980-June 1981). The actual construction period
of a rural godown is estimated to be about five to eight months ard for a
market godown eight to ten months. 1/ In the cold storage component, the
emphasis on implementation is during the first three years both for the
construction of cold stores and the related investments (Annex 1, Table 14.2).
Initiation of cold storage subprojects for the first project year's work is
expected to be completed during the preproject year in all project States.
The construction period of a individual cold store is estimated to be about
12 to 18 months (Annex 1, Chart 8).
VI. USE OF PROJECT FACILITIES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Potato Marketing and Prices
6.01      Potatoes are presently sold either at regulated markets (mandis)
through an open auction and approved commission agencies, or at non-regulated
markets through direct selling by the farmers. Except for a small portion
of potatoes which are exported through NAFED, almost all wholesaling is done
by private traders. Although the wholesale distribution would continue to
be handled primarily by grivate traders in the near future-, the 9C!F wauxId
develop their own marketing mechanism under the project and establish offices
1/   Construction schedules for typical 100 and 2,000 godowns are presented
in the First NCDC Project Report (No. 2198-IN), Annex 1, Charts 7 and 8.



- 33 -
arLd recruit specialized staff to gradually increase cooperative penetration
in overall marketing of potatoes. The cold stores owned by the SCMF would be
mainly reserved for marketing functions, with net returns channelled back to
participating farmers and cooperatives. Once the marketing cells of the SCMF
have developed their marketing intelligence and have hired qualified staff
to provide expert assistance and advice, PCS may also be able to enter direct
marketing, although in the beginning the PCS cold stores would have rental
activity as their primary function. At that stage, qualified marketing staff
would be made available to the primary level.  Until then, the limited market-
ing done by PCS cold stores on their own or on members' behalf would be done
through the Federations. NAFED, as the principal exporter of potato in the
cooperative sector, would develop marketing intelligence services for the
SCIMF and carry out research and experiment in potato marketing systems and
new structures and materials for storing potatoes and other semi-perishables.
Sufficient funds would be provided under the project to finance establishment
of the marketing offices with necessary ancillaries (Annex 1, Table 14.7).
6.02      Potato prices are strongly seasonal.  As the result of increased
production and limited storage facilities, the prices have reduced in
constant terms during the 1970s. The average harvest time price (January/
February) in the period 1973-1980 was Rs 490/ton in constant 1978 prices.
The cold storage marketing (off-season) price for the months July to
October was Rs 970/ton. If these are converted to the 1980 price level by
the wholesale index of India (185 to 216), and this is estimated to be the
constant price level during the project period, the harvesting time price
would be about Rs 670 and the cold store marketing price Rs 1,320. The
value added by the storage would be Rs 650/ton less the operational expenses.
Incremental Storage and Marketing Capacity
6.03      The cooperatives currently distribute almrLost half (about 2.4 M
material tons in 1978/79) of the fertilizer used in India.  In recent years,
cooperatives have procured 25% to 50% of the foodgrains purchased by the
public sector agencies and sizeable quantities of other produce such as jute,
cotton and sugarcane. The cooperative turnover in produce marketing was
Rs 14 B in 1977/78.  The godown capacity owned by the SCMF and RCMS in the
project States is much below their needs (Annex 1, Table 12). GOS have
assumed in their (revised) Five-Year Plan (1979-84) that the cooperative
would maintain their current share of the fertilizer trade and undertake a
growing share of the procurement of farm produce expecting about 11% average
annual increase of procurement by cooperatives. Therefore, expansion of
cooperative godown capacity is an essential factor in implementation of
national agricultural plans. In State-wise planning, Storage Coordination
Committees have taken care to ensure that there would be no excess supply
of storage either at village or market center levels.
6.04      In accordance with the GOI national plan (Annex 5, A.9), PACS are to
provide essential village level services through their godown complexes in the
fields of credit, procurement of produce and supply of farm inputs and consumer
goods. PACS are basically service organisations which use their facilities
for marketing rather than long-term storage. The SCMF and RCMS are also
enigaged in marketing.  However, the cooperatives as a whole provide a chain
of high quality storage, and that constructed under the project would be



- 34 -
additional to the existing capacity available for farm inputs and produce
in the project States. In no project State, however, would the additional
storage constructed under the project result in an increase of the cooperative
share of the projected storage capacity from the current level of 3-22% by
more than 5-6 percentage points. However, in measuring the utilization of the
physical assets (godowns) of the PACS, it is necessary to take into account
the increase in their lending or credit business, their additional functions
as rural service centers and the importance of infrastructure for village
community development based on cooperative principles, because most of the
physical activities in handling goods would induce the growth of credit demand
by the society members.
6.05      Potato production in India more than doubled during the 1970s,
reaching 10 M tons in 1978/79. Due to the shortage of cold storage capacity
resulting in depressed farmgate prices, the production area and output stag-
nated in 1979/80 although the acreage planted, indicate that production will
grow and exceed 10 M tons in 1980/81. Projections by the National Commission
on Agriculture indicate that production should reach 14 M tons in 1985 and
20 M tons in 1990. These projected increases in production are not likely to
take place unless sufficient cold storage capacity is created. Total potato
productions in 1979/80--9.6 M tons--required 4.9 M tons of cold storage
capacity, much of this for seed potatoes (Annex 1, Table 13), but capacity
available was only about 3 M tons, or 2 M tons short.  GOI and GOS policy
is that cooperatives should construct and operate about 50% of the new cold
stores needed in the next five years, and the private sector the balance.
With the help of the project, the tonnage of cooperative cold stores would
increase from the current 209,000 tons to over 700,000 tons in three years
and their market share of cold stored potatoes from 5% to about 20%, still
substantially below the goals set by GOI and GOS.
6.06      The availability of goods and services to farmers through the
cooperative network will increase significantly with the help of the project.
The incremental business turnover of primary level units financed by the
project is expected to be as follows:
1,000 Tons          Rs M
Seeds and Pesticides              -                  410
Fertilizer                       1,260             2,890
Farm Produce                     1,500             2,700
Consumer Goods                    -                  420
Potatoes                           490               510
Production Credit                  -               1,750
Financial Projections for Godowns
6.07      Traditionally, the primary activity of the PACS has been the pro-
Mision of short and maediuz-term credit to me.bers.  The cons-tructtioik of new
facilities would enable benefitting societies to undertake additional and
more varied activities. For illustration purposes business models have been
prepared of a typical PACS constructing a 100 ton rural godown, and for SCMF
investing in a 2,000 ton market godown. In the models the growth of operations



- 35 -
in the first six years is based on the observation of actual performance of
existing societies with godowns. From year 7 onwards the growth of activities
is assumed to stabilize at an annual growth of 6-7%. Based on the margins
currently earned on different PACS activities (credit, agricultural input
sales, crop procurement and sales of consumer goods), the FRR for the PACS
investment would be 17% for a godown without a manlager's residence and
about 13% for a godown with a manager's residence (Annex 5, A.15). The model
of an SCMF investing in a 2,000 ton godown indicates a FRR of about 13%.
6.08      A sensitivity analysis was performed to ascertain which variables
are most crucial for success of the above investments. The crossover test,
i.e., calculation of the maximum change possible in the value of each variable
before the financial rate of return would go below the estimated opportunity
cost of capital (12% in India), was used. The percentage and numerical
results (Annex 5, A.15) show that overall the godown component is stable and
generally insensitive to the moderately adverse assumptions in the test cases.
The financial viability is, however, most sensitive to the volume of fertilizer
sales and credit turnover, which may be reduced over 40% of the "base case"
without making the investment unacceptable at 12% opportunity cost of capital.
Reduction in the volume of sales of seeds, pesticides and consumer goods would
not seriously impair financial viability. A grouped sensitivity analysis,
which shows the effect of a single cost or benefit stream or their meaningful
combinations on the financial rate of return and net present value, indicates
that a 10% change in any of the streams or their combination would entail a
change of only 1-2 percentage points in the financial rate of return. A one
year delay in attaining projected benefits from the sale of fertilizer and
foodgrains would result in a decline of FRR from 17% to 15%.
Financial Projections for Cold Stores
6.09      Under Cold Storage and Marketing component the SCMF, RCMS or sep-
arately formed cold storage cooperative societies would be able to strengthen
their marketing network and organization and improve the quality and quantity
of their services to the potato growing membership. The financial viability
of this component has been evaluated for a 4,000 ton model cold store. Due
to the great shortage of cold stores in the project States, it is assumed that
operations will start at 90% utilization and achieve full utilization (98%)
by year 5. The entire capacity would be used foir rental at the rate of Rs 240
per ton for one storage season (alternatively, the same space could be used
for marketing, provided that the cold store retains Rs 240 per ton before pay-
ment to members). It is expected that about 50% of the customers would use
marketing services offered by the cold store for a fee of Rs 37.5/ton. The
credit advances against the potatoes are estimated to be at least Rs 150/ton,
providing 1% margin income to the cold store. Based on the above assumptions
and the actual operating costs of existing cold stores as verified during the
appraisal, the estimated FRR for the cold storage and marketing component is
21% (Annex 5, A.15).
6.10      The crossover or switching values show that the financial viability
of the cold storage and marketing component is very stable and not likely to
be seriously affected by moderate variations in costs. The changes in costs



- 36 -
and benefits required to reduce the net present value to zero at the 12%
discount rate would have to be a fall in rental receipts by 66% or an increase
in project investment costs of about 42%. The project would remain viable
even if the benefits were greatly reduced. The grouped sensitivity analysis
indicates that with a 10% change in any of the streams or their meaningful
combination, the FRR would remain within a 3% range of the "base case."
Cash Flows
6.11      Cash flows were prepared for the three models described above and for
participating SCB. They show that a typical PACS (without manager's residence)
will become profitable from year 3 onwards, and its annual cash flow will be
negative until then, and that the cumulative cash flow will remain always
positive and allow payment of interest on the project loan during this period
(Annex 5, A.15). Commencement of loan repayment seems possible in years 4
to 5, justifying the proposed three years grace period. A PACS godown with
manager's residence would achieve a positive annual cash flow in years 5 to
6. The cold stores would have comfortable annual cash flows throughout the
project period except the investment year, when payment of the interest on
the investment loan would require short-term borrowing. Annual income of
participating banks from the project investments would exceed expenditure
in all project years, except year 1.
Cost Recovery
6.12      The investment and operating costs of the participating entities,
NCDC, participating banks and ultimate borrowers would be recovered from the
operating profits they earn. The contribution to the project of the partici-
pating GOS would be Rs 858M, all of it as redeemable share capital. GOS would
receive Rs -45M as loans from NCDC partly to meet this commitment. The cash
flow projecrions of PACS and cold stores indicate that in most cases they
would be able to pay dividends on the equity capital at the rate of 5% already
from the very First project year. Although taxes payable by PACS, RCMS and
Federations are insignificant (Annex 5, A.17), the profits of the cold stores
will be liable to taxation estimated at over Rs 6 M annually after year 5.
Also, a general sales tax is applicable in all States. Therefore, a 4% tax
(estimated at Rs 38M) would be levied on all building materials and machinery
used in project facilities. The incremental produce and fertilizers handled
by the project entities would also be taxed at the same rate resulting in a
total tax income of over Rs 200 M. The cost to States incurred due to dividend
rate lower than opportunity cost of capital (about Rs 42 M) would be more than
recovered through these tax revenues.



- 37 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Rates of Return
7,01      In the economic analysis of the project the godown and the cold
storage components have been treated separately (details are in Annex 5, A.15).
In estimating economic values, a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.8 has
been applied to domestic expenses and non-traded goods and services. To
reflect the difference between international and domestic prices for steel
and cement, a conversion factor of 1.2 has been used for the cost of steel
and 1.6 for that of cement. A shadow wage rate of 60% of market rates for
unskilled labor and 80% for semi-skilled labor has been used to take into
account the high levels of rural unemployment and underemployment in project
States. Salaries of skilled technical and administrative personnel are
costed at market rates. The economic prices for traded goods are based on
their border prices at the official exchange rate. The analysis is for a
20-year period, which is a conservative estimate of the productive lives
of the principal assets created. Based on the foregoing assumptions and
the cost and benefit streams described in paras 7.02-7.06, the estimated
economic rates of return (ERR) are 16% for the godown component and 34% for
the cold storage and marketing component. The estimated economic rate of
return for the combined project is 23%.
GDdown Component
7.02      The principal economic benefit of the godown component would be
prevention of losses in farm inputs and produce that would occur otherwise
in the absence of project facilities. The godown component also would make
fertilizer and other farm inputs readily available in the immediate vicinity
of large numbers of farmers. Additionally, it would enable farmers to
deliver their marketable produce to PACS close to their farms instead of
having to deliver it to more distant market centers or to sell through
middlemen. The probable economic impact of some of the significant but
difficult to quantify benefits arising from such ease of access to marketing
and input sales points are discussed in para 7.03 although they are not taken
into account in the calculation of the economic rate of return. The most
easily assessed quantifiable benefit, prevention of storage losses, is esti-
mated at an average of 2% 1/ of all the farm produce and fertilizer expected
to be handled in project facilities of the primary level during their life
times of an estimated 20 years. A quantifiable benefit of improved marketing
arrangements is the savings in transport costs of bulk deliveries of inputs
and bulk collections of farm produce that project financed godowns will
permit. These would stem from a switch from the use of bullock carts now
used for small loads to the motor transport that would be justified by larger
volumes. Savings of about Rs 1.50/ton/km are expected to arise, mainly due
1/   Two percent is the loss figure employed for half a year storage in most
of the Bank's analyses of grain and fertilizer storage projects in India.
Total tonnage represents a lifetime average of 3.3 times the capacity of
the primary godowns.



- 38 -
to reduced road wear, decreased need for manpower and lower operational costs.
In the case of the typical PACS, the project is expected to bring the marketing/
sales point 10 km nearer to the average cooperative member. This would result
in an average transport benefit of about Rs 15 per ton (less than 1% of the
value of fertilizer and produce handled). These benefits are included in
the calculation of the economic rate of return for the godown component. The
estimated cost and benefit streams in the godown component are as follows:
-------------------Years--------------------
1       2        3       4        5      6-20
----------------------Rs M --------------------
Costs
Project Investments              223.8   242.8   242.7   241.1   257.9       -
Incremental Operating Costs /a  16.5    22.3    28.9    36.1    43.3         36.6
Benefits
Reduction in Storage Losses       20.2    45.3    72.5   103.9   137.4    200 /b
Transport Cost Savings             7.4    16.0    26.0    37.0    48.9        71 lb
Economic Rate of Return           16%
/a   Includes the project related incremental costs of all project institutions,
NCDC, SCB, etc., engaged in lending for or operations of the godowns.
/b   On average; about half of PACS will reach their maturity in years 6-10
after which the growth will stabilize.
7.03      The impact of godown investments on the use of farm inputs and the
corresponding crop production generated by this while expected to be large
is difficult to quantify meaningfully. Accordingly, these indirect benefits
have not been taken into account in calculation of the ERR. Officials in the
project areas have, however, estimated that incremental fertilizer use in the
operational areas of new PACS could be as high as 25 to 50% of their present
fertilizer sales.
7.04      For sensitivity tests, both crossover value and grouped sensitivity
analyses have been prepared (Annex 5, A.15). The godown component is rela-
tively insensitive to variations in the cost and benefit streams. The reduc-
tion in storage losses, which is the most sensitive parameter, could fall
from the 2% assumed to 1.5% before this component would become unacceptable
at 12% opportunity cost of capital. In the grouped sensitivity analysis, a
10% variation in any of the streams or their meaningful combinations would
cause only two percentage points change in the ERR. One year's lag in
attaining all the projected benefits would result in a decline in the ERR
from 16% to 13%.



- 39 -
Cold Storage and Marketing Component
7.05      The main economic benefits from the cold storage and marketing
component would accrue from the increased value of potatoes maintained in
cold storage. In India's climate spoilage begins shortly after harvesting
and by the end of three months spoilage losses typically reach 35%, acceler-
ating rapidly thereafter. Conversely spoilage losses of potatoes in cold
storage are only 5% in the average season.
7.06      Currently the supply of potatoes far exceeds cold storage capacity
ei7d after harvest prices drop sharply as farmers without access to cold
storage are forced to dispose of their deteriorating crop on a buyer's market.
As long as this situation prevails, potatoes placed in cold storage, besides
being protected against spoilage, also increase in value through being pre-
served as a high quality product and available for sale at a time of relative
scarcity. Given the current and expected to continue shortage of cold storage,
such value added through the use of project facilities is expected to be about
Rs 650/ton (6.02). Benefits would accrue also from the reduction of potato
seed transport costs. By using cold storage facilities in the growing areas
farmers can preserve their own seed potatoes until sowing time. Local pro-
duction and storage of seed potatoes (which can be used 3-4 years before
replacement by better quality and disease-free seed is necessary) would
reduce imports from traditional seed growing areas (primarily Himachal Pradesh)
and yield an estimated benefit of about Rs 0.50/ton/km for the seed potato
irnports substituted for by local seed maintained in project storage. The
cost and benefit streams are as follows (Annex 5, A.15):
 ----------- ------Years----
1        2         3         4      5-20
----------------Rs M---------------------
Costs
Project Investments                    233.4    218.3    179.5        -        -
Incremental Operating Costs /a          36.0     61.0      88.0      88.0    88.0
Benefits
Value Added /b                          25.0    121.9    219.0    315.9    315.9
Savings in Seed Transport Cost           0.7      3.5       6.3       9.1       9.1
Economic Rate of Return                 34%
/a   Includes the project induced incremental costs of all project institutions,
NCDC, SCB, etc., engaged in lending for or operations of the cold stores.
/b   This is calculated by assuming that in the without project situation the
average farmer would sell 75% of his surplus potatoes at the depressed
post-harvest price, with the remaining 25% being spoiled and that in the
with project situation 5% only would spoil ancl 95% be sold at the premium
price in the 'off-season' (6.02).



- 40 -
7.07      In the above calculation it is assumed that potato prices and
within season price differentials would remain at the average of the levels of
the 1970s in constant 1980 prices throughout the lifetime of the project and
thus that the balance between supply and demand of cold stored potatoes will
remain approximately as in the 1970s. The good financial returns available
from investments in storage (6.09) should cause supplies to improve. However,
given the upward trend of potato demand throughout the 1970s (6.01-6.02) and
GOI estimates of steadily increasing production in the 1980s it seems reason-
able to assume that through most of the life of the project cold storage will
be in short supply and that differential levels such as in the 1970s will be
maintained. Since the latter assumption is subjective, sensitivity tests have
to be used to test the impact of lower price differentials. These show that
value added would have to be reduced to almost one-half of the figure employed
before the ERR for the component would fall below the 12% opportunity cost of
capital (Annex 5, A.15). A 10% reductions in benefits would lower the ERR to
29%; a lag of one year in benefits in an ERR of 27%.
Employment Effects
7.08      The project would have a substantial employment impact. Godown and
cold storage construction would require about 62,500 man-years of employment
during the five year implementation period. About 1,400 technical staff would
be employed to prepare subprojects and supervise construction. Once construc-
tion is complete, it is estimated that participating PACS and market godowns
would need about 7,900 PAGS managers, 7,500 storekeepers and 8,800 watchmen to
manage and handle the new facilities and cooperative business that the project
would generate. Each cold store would be manned by 8-9 people, creating penr-
anent employment for over 1,000 persons. The godown and cold storage operations
would provide up to 11,600 and 2,200 man-years casual work for handlers and
sorters, respectively. Through its indirect impact on farm production, which
would be very significant but difficult to quantify, the project would bring
about substantial additional farm employment. It is estimated that this could
be as much as 36,000 man-years by project year 5 (Annex 1, Table 16).
Project Beneficiaries
7.09      The project would  primarily benefit the members of participating
PACS and cooperatives owning cold stores. About 3.2 M farm families (17 M
people) 1/ are expected to utilize services of PACS godowns and about 125,000-
150,000 potato farm families (0.7-0.8 M people) the new cold storage facili-
ties. The PACS members would receive a number of benefits (4.04), but they
are difficult to assess accurately. The potato growers' net benefit of
storing and marketing through cooperatives are estimated to be Rs 150/ton
for table potatoes and Rs 350 for seed potatoes. There would be additional
benefits arising from the potatoes saved from rotting by preserving them in
cold stores. An average potato growing member would receive benefits esti-
mated at Rs 1,300- 1,500 annually. The socio-economic grouping of members of
coo mtzkS. czstXA s       az ee abw-t5t the sa as  tat 
1/ Based on average family size of 5.5.



- 41 -
65% belonging to categories of landless, marginal and small farmers (small
farmers having less than 5 ha of unirrigated land, or 2.5 ha of irrigated
land.) Therefore, a large percentage of the project participants would be
part of the 48% of India's rural population that are considered by the GOI
to live below the poverty line.
Other Benefits
7.10      A major but not quantifiable benefit would be strengthening NCDC
as a development finance institution for the cooperative sector not only
for rural storage but also for other agricultural processing, industrial and
marketing type activities. The project would also assist other participating
institutions (SCB, SLDB, cooperative societies, District Central Cooperative
Eanks and government departments) to strengthen their capacities and procedures.
Thus, the project would greatly assist in institution building at lower levels
which is in accordance with the GOI policy to create growth centers at the
Panchayat level (20,000-30,000 people). The cold storage and marketing
component would greatly reduce the risk associated now with potato growing
and the smaller farmers who have been neglected by private cold storage owners
would have opportunity to store their potato crop of only a few tons. The
I'ACS under the project provide basic rural services required to support other
projects. Examples are the irrigation projects in all project States. A
strong cooperative infrastructure would also complement the work of govern-
miental agricultural extension officers, closely linking them with farrm input
supply and marketing facilities.
RLole of Women
7.11      The project would benefit women in several ways.  The most important
would be the direct employment opportunities generated by the establishment of
the cold stores. Some women may also obtain employment in the construction
stages of the project. It is not uncommon in India for women to engage in all
aspects of the building process. More significantly, women would obtain employ-
raent in the stores as potato sorters and graders. Previously, land ownership
was a prerequisite for membership in a PACS.  However, this law has been changed
l-o make women, landless laborers and artisans eligible. Therefore, women
would benefit from PACS membership directly as memtbers, or indirectly, as
family members. In addition, in most States the by-laws of the cooperatives
have been amended to force inclusion of at least one woman member on the
management committee of each society.
Environmental Effects
7.12      The project would have no harmful effects on the environment.  The
proposed godowns and cold storage facilities wouldL be built according to Indian
sanitary and safety specifications which provide adequate safeguards. The
provision of toilet facilities within the godown compounds would promote better
village sanitation and hygiene. Sanitation is also fostered by the provision
Df water pumps within each godown facility. These pumps provide fresh water
for drinking and personal use. Thus, at the completion of the project, approx-
imately 7,900 new sources of clean water would be available. Standardized



- 42 -
site selection criteria such as access to feeder roads, availability of elec-
tricity, etc. would be followed, but traditional land use patterns and village
layout would not be altered or disrupted.
7.13      The danger that freon gas, which could cause harm to higher atmos-
pheric strata, would leak, is minimal. In addition, only about 15% of the
total amount of freon produced in the world is used for refrigeration as
compared to about 85% used in aerosol sprays. An occasional loss of freon
gas from one of the cold stores would have an insignificant effect on the
environment. However, as a preventive measure, gauges which reveal leakages,
would be installed in all cold stores (4.14).
Project Risks
7.14      Although there are nine States participating in the project and the
number of godowns planned for construction is large, the technical aspects
are relatively simple. Construction of cold stores is more complex, but
there are many local contractors experienced in construction of cold stores.
Timely implementation of the construction program should not, therefore,
be difficult. However, a possible risk is that of a shortage of cement.
Cement is currenty scarce in India and delays in implementation would result
if the situation did not ease within the next six months. GOI and partici-
pating GOS have offered to give priority for cement allocation to this project,
as for other Bank/IDA financed projects; nonetheless, the risk is real and
might result in cost escalation due to construction delays. In that event
the number of godowns and cold stores that could actually be financed out of
project funds might be smaller than now proposed.
7.15      Another risk arises from limited experience of the cooperative sector
in managing potato cold stores. Safeguards that have been provided include
recruitment of the technically qualified staff, training them appropriately
and equipping them with suitable operational manuals. Primary cooperative
societies would also be provided with technical and marketing back-up from the
better equipped apex Federations. All in all, probability of implementation
problems is no greater than can be expected normally with operations of this
type in India. In view of the project benefits mostly accruing to small
farmers, the risks described above would be acceptable.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances have been obtained on the following
matters:
(a)  NCDC would require that the recovery rates of the participat-
ing SCB and SLDB should not go below levels agreed with IDA to
be eligible for refinancing (3.15, 3.20);
(b)  building designs, specifications and construction standards
followed for project godowns and cold stores would not be
changed without the agreement of IDA (4.11, 4.14);



- 43 -
(c) NCDC and SCB/SLDB would apply subproject appraisal criteria
agreed with IDA during negotiations, for every loan application
covered under the project (5.19);
(d) terms of lending by NCDC to OS and SCB/SLDB and by the latter
to the beneficiary cooperatives (in the case of Bihar, by NCDC
to BISCOMAUN) would be satisfactory to IDA (4.25);
(e) all documents supporting NCDC refinance covered by IDA credit
disbursements against construction of godowns and cold stores
would be made available to IDA for inspection during super-
vision missions (4.30);
(f) GOI and NCDC would cause that the participating institutions--
SCB/SLDB and SCMF--would strengthen their staffing during the
first project year with the types and numbers agreed with IDA
(5.07);
(g) NCDC would submit to IDA copies of annual work programs and
budgets of the participating banks and NCDC before the start
of each financial year (5.27); and
(h) audit arrangements for NCDC and participating SCB/SLDB would
be satisfactory to IDA and the audited accounts of NCDC would
be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of their
financial year (5.28).
8.02      Execution of a financial agreement between GOI and NCDC, acceptable
to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (4.23).
8.04      Retroactive financing up to a total of US$4 M would be made available
against eligible disbursements incurred after October 1, 1980 (4.31).
8.05      With these assurances the project would be suitable for an IDA Credit
of US$125 M to GOI on standard terms.



-44-
ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC: Comparative Balance Sheets
(Rs M)
Assets                       1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Fixed Assets                     0.9        1.9        3.9       6.6        9.9
Loans to:
State Governments             855.4   1,037.1   1,203.9   1,465.1   1,677.0
Cooperative Banks              77.8       99.9     107.4      137.5      219.0
Other Cooperatives             14.8       16.2       18.5      21.7       31.8
Investments                      9.6        9.8      15.3       22.4       22.1
Advances to Staff                1.0        1.4        2.0       2.1        3.4
Bond Redemption A/C              2.0        6.8      15.0       31.8       58.2
Interest Accrued                19.5       27.2      30.6       38.5       51.3
Prepaid Expenses                 8.2       10.0      .22.9      37.4       46.7
Bank and Cash Balances          44.0       31.6      67.7       13.8       59.7
Total                       1,033.2   1,241.9   1,487.2   1,777.0   2,179.1
Liabilities
NCDC Fund Account              355.0      402.6     444.1      501.5      499.9
Reserves                         7.3       13.0      21.6       35.9       59.5
Loans from GOI                 608.6      707.2     768.9      871.8   1,006.9
Market Borrowings               55.0      110.0     220.0      330.0      569.0
Other Liabilities                7.3        9.1      32.6       37.8       43.8
Total                       1,033.2   1,241.9   1,487.2   1,777.0   2,179.1



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC: Sources and Application of Funds
(Rs M)
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79    1979/80
Sources
NCDC Fund                                    36.2      47.6      41.5       57.4        (1.6)
Additions to Reserves and
Retained Earnings                            2.1       5.7       8.6       14.3        23.6
Market Borrowings                           27.5       55.0     110.0      110.0       239.0
Other Loans and Advances                   129.5      161.8     144.8      186.5       217.9
Loan and Advance Repayments                108.0       98.8     122.1      153.3       222.2
Total                                     -03.3      368.9     427.0      521.4       701.1
Application
Fixed Assets Expenditure                     0.0 Q0O              2.0        2.7         3.3
Investments                                  2.0        5.0     13.7        23.9        26.1
Loans and Advances                         237.6      304.3    299.3       447.8       526.9
Change in Current Assets/Liabilities          9.4      (4.8)    28.9       (36.7)       62.0
Loan Repayments                              54.3      63.4      83.1       83.7        82.8
Total                                      303.3     368.9    427.0       521.4       701.1
F-4 
(D M



-46-
ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC: Loan Disbursements by Channel and Purpose
1975/76 - 1979/80
(Rs M)
Inputs &
Marketing    Processing    Storage        Other       Total
Through State Governments
1975/76                             27.9          121.1          16.1        37.1       202.2
1976/77                            46.0           167.2          17.8        44.6       275.6
1977/78                            62.0           164.2          44.0        10.8       281.0
1978/79                            55.1           203.6          56.5        78.6       393.8
1979/80                             59.5          176.4          61.0       121.3       418.2
Subtotal              250.5          832.5         195.4       292.4    1,570.8
Through State Cooperative Bank
1975/76                                -           23.1             -           -        23.1
1976/77                                -           26.0             -           -        26.0
1977/78                                -           13.1             -           -        13.1
1978/79                                -           13.2          25.0           -        38.2
1979/80                                -            9.9          82.7           -        92.6
Subtotal                  -           85.3         107.7           -       193.0
Directly to Apex Federations
1975/76                             1.5            10.3            -            -       11.8
1976/77                             0.4             1.0           0.2           -        1.6
1977/78                             2.3             0.5           0.0           -        2.8
1978/79                            10.1             1.4           1.5         0.8       13.8
1979/80                            11.2             1.2           0.2         0.6       13.2
Subtotal               25.5           14.4           1.9         1.4       43.2



-47_                                    ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPNENT CORPEORATION PROJECT
NCDC: Disbursements During Last Five Years
(Rs M)
1975/76  1976/77  1.977/78  1978/79  1979/80  Total
Central Sponsored Schemes
Margin Money for Fertilizer Distribution        29.0      43.4       8.0         -         -    80.4
Central Scheme for Development Coop-
eratives in Underdeveloped States             20.5      39.9      45.7     65.7      65.0   236.8
Assistance to Cooperative Sugar Factories    55.3         80.0      75.5      52.4      24.8   288.0
Assistance to Cooperative Spinning
Mills (growers)                               14.5      24.5       7.0       9.2     10.0    65.2
Assistance to Cooperative Federations            8.0       0.9       2.0       2.0       1.2    14.1
Assistance to Weavers Spinning Mills             5.5      15.4      22.4      24.7      34.6   102.6
Subtotal                                  132.8    204.1    160.6    154.0    135.6   787.1
NCDC Sponsored Schemes
Margin Money & Share Capital to
Marketing Federations & Societies             19.5      14.6      20.2      30.5     43.7   128.5
Assistance to Processing Federations                -        -       0.4       0.4         -     0.8
Agricultural Crop Processing                    23.7      27.6      22.1      14.2     23.9   111.5
Fruit & Vegetables Marketing                     1.8       1.0       0.5       1.4         -     4.7
Processing Rehabilitation & Margin Money         6.8         -      10.2       6.0       9.3    32.3
Cooperative Storage                             11.3      13.3      40.3      71.6     63.3   199.8
Cooperative Cold Storage                         4.9       4.9       5.0       4.3      9.0    28.1
Distribution of Consumer Goods                   1.2      12.6      16.5      27.1     52.6   110.0
Consumer Industries                                -         -       0.1         -         -     0.1
Seed Multiplication                                -         -       1.0         -      1.3      2.3
Agro Service Centers                              1.5      1.1       0.2       0.0         -     2.8
Agro Chemicals Formulation                          -        -       0.4       0.2         -     0.6
Soil Testing Laboratories                          -         -         -       0.0         -       -
Fishery Cooperatives                          .  0.7       0.9       1.2      12.7     18.4    33.9
Poultry Cooperatives                                -      9.9       0.4       0.1         -    10.4
Dairy Cooperatives                              10.3         -       7.7       7.3      4.2    29.5
Tribal Cooperatives                              5.1       3.3       9.0       3.9       8.8    30.1
Cooperatives for Hill Areas                         -        -         -       1.0         -     1.0
Handloom Cooperatives                               -        -       7.7      27.8      23.4    58.9
Cotton Development                                  -      0.1         -         -         -     0.1
Coir and Sericulture Cooperatives                  -         -       3.0         -         -     3.0
Technical and Promotional Cells                  0.3       0.3       2.6       0.5      0.5      4.2
Training Programs                                0.1       0.1       1.8       0.2      0.1      2.3
Feasibility Studies                              0.2       0.0       0.1       0.7      0.1      1.1
Market Surveys                                      -        -       0.1         -         -     0.1
Management Studies                                  -        -       0.2       0.7       0.3     1.2
Publicity                                        0.2       0.5       0.4       0.5       0.5     2.1
Ad hoc Schemes                                  11.8      18.7       0.7      70.1      2.1   103.4
Investments                                     10.0       0.2       5.2         -         -    15.4
Fertilizer Granular Units                        0.5       0.4         -         -         -     0.9
Subtotal                                  109.8    109.6    157.0    281.2    261.5   919.1
TOTAL                                     242.6    313.7    317.6    435.2    397.1 1,706.2



-48-
ANNEX 1
Table 5
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC: Projection on Loanable Funds
(Rs M)
RECEIPTS              1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85
Opening balance         59.6        60.6        41.1        26.6        31.8
Repayment against
loans
79/80  Principal               228.4       172.6      169.8       168.9       173.6
Interest               138.1       135.8       121.3       112.2       100.8
80/81  Principal                   -        33.0       33.0        33.0        33.0
Interest                   -        52.8        50.2        47.5        44.8
81/82  Principal                   -           -       40.1        40.1        40.1
Interest                   -           -        64.2        61.0        57.8
82/83  Principal                   -           -           -       44.7        44.7
Interest                   -           -           -        71.6        68.0
83/84  Principal                   -           -           -          -        48.9
Interest                   -           -           -           -        78.3
(A) Total     426.1       454.8       519.7       605.6       721.8
PAYMENTS
Repayment to GOI       161.1       170.0       200.0       250.0       275.0
Interest on market      50.4        67.2        91.5       107.2       132.0
borrowings
Admin. expenses         13.0        13.0        13.0        13.0        13.0
Redemption of bonds    38.9         58.6        78.6        91.1       127.5
Income tax              20.0        22.5        25.0        25.0        25.0
(B) Total     283.4       331.2       408.1       486.3       572.5
Difference (A-B)    140.7        123.6       111.6       119.3      149.3
GOI grants for
special schemes   55.0         60.0        60.0       60.0        65.0
Market borrowings   300.0        300.0       350.0       400.0       500.0
Funds available for
new projects 1/  495.7        483.6       521.6      579.3       714.3
1/ Excluding borrowings, NCDC-Fund support from GOI and IDA-funds.



ANNEX 1
Table 6
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
NCDC: Comparative Income and Expenditure Statements
(Rs M)
Income                              1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Grants from GOI                       30.5       45.5       53.9       60.5        6.0
Interest on:
Loans                               53.2       70.6       88.3      110.5      141.9
Debenture and Other                  0.2        0.7        0.2        0.2        0.1
Advances
Bank Accounts                        4.3        3.5        2.3        4.2        5.3
D:Lvidend on Investments                  -       0.2        0.0        0.6        0.1
Oither Income                          0.2        1.9        1.7        2.7        3.2
Total                               88.4      122.4      146.4      178.7      156.6
Expenditure
Grants to GOS, SCB and                  2.6       9.7       11.4       20.4       21.4
Others
Interest on Borrowing                 35.4       42.4       54.1       67.5       87.4
Discount on Bonds                       0.3       0.6        1.1          -          -
Administration                          4.1        5.1       5.8        6.8        7.7
Income Tax                              7.4       6.0        8.6        1.2          -
Refund of Subsidy to GOI                0.1          -       0.1          -        0.1
Publicity Programs                      0.2        0.5       0.5        0.4        0.4
Accrued Expenses                        0.0        4.1       3.1        8.2       14.8
Subtotal                            50.1       68.4       84.7      104.5      131.8
Transferred to Reserves:
Building/Gratuity                    0.1        2.0        2.0          -          -
Bond Redemption                      2.0        4.5        7.4       16.8        3.2
Excess Income to NCDC Fund             36.2      47.5       52.3       57.4       21.6
Total                               88.4      122.4      146.4      178.7      156.6



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPNENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Projections of NCDC's Sixth Plan Outlays
(Rs M)
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85
Central Sector Schemes
Ministry of Agriculture
Underdeveloped States                                   40.0       65.0      65.0       65.0       65.0    300.0
Sugar/Spinning Mills                                    30.0      60.0       70.0       70.0       70.0    300.0
IDA EEC Godown Projects                                 70.0       70.0     100.0      120.0      140.0    500.0
IDA (Cold Storage) and EEC (Soyabean) Projects             -      80.0       80.0       90.0      100.0    350.0
NAFED Schemes                                            2.0        2.5       2.5        4.0        4.0      15.0
Subtotal                                           142.0      277.5      317.5      349.0      379.0  1,465.0
Outlay of other Ministries                                 82.5       82.5      82.5       82.5       82.5    412.5
NCDC Corporation Sponsored Schemes                        435.0      442.5     495.0      547.5      655.0  2,575.0
Total                                              659.5      802.5      895.0      979.0   1,116.5  4,452.5           'f3
Funding of the Program
Budget Outlay
Ministry of Agriculture                                142.0     277.5      317.5      349.0      379.0  1,465.0
Other Ministries                                        82.5      82.5       82.5       82.5       82.5    412.5
Internal Accruals                                          80.0      82.5       85.0       87.5       90.0    425.0
Market Borroving                                          300.0      300.0     350.0      400.0      500.0  1,850.0
Grants                                                     55.0      60.0       60.0       60.0       65.0    300.0
Total                                              659.5      802.5      895.0     979.0   1,116.5 4_452_ _
.  t



INTIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Summary of Latest Available Income and Expenditure Accounts of Participating SCB/SLDB
(Rs M)
Andhra                Madhya                 Uttar       Himachal    West
Pradesh   Haryana    Pradesh    Punjab       Pradesh    Pradesh    Bengal    Maharasha
SCB       SCB         SCB        SCB         SCB         SCB        SLDB        SLDB
79/80     79/80       79/80      79/80       79/80       78/79      79/80        78/79
Income
Interest Received              120.2       60.2        77.1      82.0        195.6        15.2       28.3        291.9
Others                           0.6        0.2         0.6       0.6          2.2         0.4        4.6          2.8
Total                     120.8       60.4        77.7      82.6        197.8        15.6       32.9        294.7                   1
Expenditure
Interest Paid                   94.6       45.9        60.4      73.2        148.0        11.4       26.3        250.2
Establishment Expenses            3.3       2.1         6.0        3.8         8.5         2.7        5.3         24.1
Miscellaneous                     3.1       0.9         3.5        2.1         ii.9         1.1       0.3          0.2
Excess of Income over
Expenditure                   19.8       11.5         7.8        3.5        2P.4         0.4        1.0         20.2
Total                     120.8       60.4        77.7      82.6        197.8        15.6       32.9        294.7             X
aoD H



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Summary of Latest Available Balance Sheets of Participating SCB/SLDB
(Rs M)
Andhra              Madhya                Uttar    Himachal    West
Pradesh  Haryana   Pradesh   Punjab    Pradesh  Pradesh    Bengal   Maharasha
SCB      SCB        SCB       SCB         SCB      SCB        SLDB       SLDB
6/30/80  6/30/80   6/30/80   6/30/80   6/30/80  6/30/79              6/30/80   6/30/79
Liabilities
Share Capital                          113.9       27.8       63.8       57.2    109.5        5.8        37.3     287.8
Reserves                               167.4       50.6      105.4       49.6    167.0         7.0       11.2     119.3
Deposits                               813.8      425.8      620.7      920.6  1,595.0      129.0           -      57.9
Debentures                                  -         -          -          -         -          -     404.6   1,864.0
Borrowings
GOS                                   40.2          -       40.9        3.6     52.1        1.1           -          -
RBI                                  363.4      356.7      313.8       31.2    616.6           -          -          -
ARDC                                   3.5       30.3        0.7       16.3      6.3          -          -          -
NCDC                                     -       28.6       16.5       42.0     90.8           -          -          -
Interest Payable                        16.3        4.8       13.8       23.4          )          )         -      58.2
Other Liabilities                       11.4          -       11.8       24.5    148.2)        7.2)     13.6      151.4
Profit and Loss A/C                     19.8       36.8       29.9       31.2     29.5        0.3         4.4      20.3
Total                 1,549.7      961.4   1,217.2   1,168.9  2,815.0         150.4      471.1   2,558.9
Assets
Cash and Bank Balances                 155.8      165.2       46.6      127.2    203.2       42.2        4.8       21.2
Short-term Deposits with other
Banks                                    -          -          -     284.5                    -          -
Investments                            196.5       63.3      169.6      176,3    563.5       27.9       72.8      775.0
Advances and Loans
Short-term                           990.2      446.5     694.4      160.1  1,099.6        52.7          -          -
Medius-term                          159.9      191.9      288.1       17.5    714.9       :14,.7        -           -
Long-term                                -       59.5          -        3.4    135.5          -      370.0   1,1698.1
Interest Receivable                     30.5       27.8        2.9       28.7     3X8.6       5.5       >4.7       26.7
Other Assets                            16.8        7.2       16.1      382.0     59.7         7.4      18.8        37.9
Total                 1,549.7      961.4   1,217.2   1,068.9  2,815.0         150.4      471.1   2,558.9



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Bihar SCMF (BISCOMAUN): Balance Sheet 1978/79
(Re M)
Liabilities                                                  Assets
Share Capital:                         11.2             Fixed Assets                              13.9
Authorized; Rs 100 M                                   Investments                               6.7
Subscribed and Paid
(i)  State Government       10.9                      Current Assets                          347.7
(ii)  Cooperatives            0.3                        Stock in Trade                248.3
Reserves                                                   Trade Debitors                49.0
Reserve Funds and                                        Advances and Recoverables    26.6
Accumulated Profit                   18.0                Cash and Bank Balances        23.8
Liabilities for Supply
of Pool Fertilizers                  30.3
Deposits                                0.2
Long-term Loans                        13.8
Short-term Loans                      160.8
For Seed Purchase            10.0
Cash Credits                150.8
Other Current Liabilities
and Provisions                      133.3
Profit for the Year                     0.7
Total                           368.3                    Total                             368.3
* o 



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Summary of SCB/SLDB Loan Disbursements and Recoveries for Latest Available Year
(Rs M)
4ndhra                Madhya                Uttar       Himachal    West
Pradesh   Haryana    Pradesh    Punjab    Pradesh    Pradesh    Bengal   Maharashtra
SCB       SCB         SCB       SCB         SCB         SCB        SLDB        SLDB
79/80      79/80       79/80      79/80        79/80
Advances   Short-term           1,103.5   1,177.7       417.1     1,541.7   4,036.9          1.2         -            -
- Medium and                                                                      119.3
Long-term  1/          34.0      128.3     263.1         25.0       68.9         2.2     77.5        413.2
Repayment Demand  -             1,136.4   1,167.2       110.9     1,913.7   3,757.9         20.6 9-               413.3                 >
Recoveries                        967.1   1,165.6       374.5     1,528.8   3,690.0          4.2/  52.0           222.1
129.1-
Recovery as Percentage of
Demand                          85.1       99.8       91.1        79.9       98.0        20.2      64.2         54.0
1/ Includes conversion of short-term loans into medium-term loans.
2/ Special advances to District Marketing Federation and Societies where repayment is 95%
3/ Annual demand is the total of repayments falling due during the year plus overdues from the previous year.



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJEC'T
Statistics on Cooperative Societies in the ProjecL States
Andra                  Himachal    Mahara-
Pradesh      Bihar     Pradesh      shtra       Punjab             Total
Number of PACS, June 1978                  11,945      16,500      2,349       18,572      10,205             59,571
Number of Societies, October 1980 1/        7,000 2/   9,000       2,349       18,572       2,700             39,621
Target Number of Viable Societies           5,650       9,000      2,349       10,500 3/   2,700              30,199
Number of Societies Owning Godowns,
June 1978                                 778        642         795        3,051       1,982              7,248
Number of Society Godowns to be
constructed under the project 4/       3,000         -         1,100        1,350       1,550             7,000
Number of RCMS/Federation Godowns
to be constructed under the
project                                   100        149         120          413         149                931
Ln
Number of Members in all Societies
(Millions) June 1978                    1.92        2.74        0.55         4.82        1.56             11.59
Number of Members in Project
Societies (Millions) 5/                 1.02        0.15        0.26         0.62        1.14               3.19
1/  Figures are based on current status of society reorganization and amalgamation.
2/  Estimate by National Cooperative Union of India.
3/  Reorganization has not been undertaken yet and the RBI targets have not been approved
in Maharashtra to date.                                                                                              a M
(D >4
41  Revised figures, October 1980.
5/  Calculated by using the average memberships of reorganized PACS and number of societies for
which godowns are to be constructed 'under the project. In Bihar, the average indivi1dual
membership of RCMS has'beenx used.'



-56-
ANNEX 1
Table 12
IND1IA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOFMT CORPORATION PROJECT
Agricultural Production, Fertilizer Use and Storage Capacity
in Pro4ect States (1976-1985)
(Quantities in million tons)
Actual              Projections
19/b/11     191/        l        __ __Z_1
Production of Main Crops /a
-  Maharashtra                      13.50       15.90     17.50      18.50
-  Punjab                            9.70 Lb    11.00     12.00 /c   12.70  c
-  Andhra Pradesh                    9.30       10.00     11.80       12.30 3
-  Bihar                             9.90       10.10     10.80 /d   11.10 /d
-  Himachal Pradesh                 NA           1.10      1.20       1.30
Use of Fertilizers (material)
-  Maharashtra                       0.76        0.91      1.20  d    1.36 /d
-  Punjab                            1.27 lb     1.44      1.87 7    2.09 71
-  Andhra Pradesh                   0.93 j9      1.24      1.97       2.45
-  Bihar                            0.38         0.47      0.62 /d    0.75 /d
-  Himachal Pradesh                  NA          0.03      0.06 7d    0.08 ,d
Estimated Storage/Transportation
Requirement /e
-  Maharashtra                      4.35         5.13      5.73       6.09
-  Punjab                            5.36        6.07      6.75       7.18
-  Andhra Pradesh                    3.16        3.50      4.33       4.67
-  Bihar                             2.13        2.21      2.41       2.52
-  Himachal Pradesh                 NA           0.24      0.27       0.31
Existing Storage and Storage Shortage If                     Storage gap plus CAP of 1979
- Maharashtra                       NA           1.80      3.65       3.98
-  Punjab                           NA           6.06      0.77       1.40
-  Andhra Pradesh                   NA           3.16      1.64       1.87
-  Bihar                            NA           1.60      0.96       1.05
-  Himachal Pradesh                 NA           NA        NA         NA
Cooperative Marketing Storage /g                               Projections
-  Maharashtra                      NA           0.47      0.65       0.70
-  Punjab                           NA           1.33      1.57       1.73
-  Andhra Pradesh                   NA           0.48      0.49       0.50
-  Bihar                            NA           0.35      0.45       0.55
-  Himiachal Pradesh                NA           0.06      0.07       0.08
Village Level Cooperative Godowns
-  Maharashtra                      NA           0.24 /b   0.42       0.56
-  Punjab                           NA           0.27 /h   0.51       0.67
-  Andhra Pradesh                   NA .         0.08 /h   0.26       0.38
-  Bihar                            NA           0.12 /h   0.12       0.12
-  Himachal Pradesh                 NA           0.06 71;  0.10       0.12
/a  Main crops stored: in Maharashtra foodgrains. cotton, oilseed, sugar cane; in
Punjab wheat, rice, other foodgrains and cotton; in Andhra Pradesh rice and
other cereals, cotton and oilseeds; in Bihar foodgrains and jute.
/b  Interpolated estimate.
/c  Trend obtained by using half of the past five years' average growth percentage
(which was 62 in Punjab and 4% in Andhra Pradesh).
/d  Historical trend used instead of the more ambitious targets of GOS.
le  The assumptions are the following (as obtained from the State agricultural
authorities): due to seasonality the peak stock of fertilizers is about 40%
of the annual sales. The produce storage peak is estimated at about 30% of
major crops in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, about 50% in Punjab and about
20% in Bihar and Himachal Pradesh.
/f  Does not contain village level godowns, since they are used only for very short
term transit storage while their main function is marketing. Of the existing
storage, there is CAP storage 0.44 M tons in Punjab, 0.93 M tons in Andhra yradesh
and 0.3 M tons in Bihar. Shortage of storage indicates the ,uantity wit.o   aeu
stores.
j Includes CAP and hired storage as follows: Maharashtra 0.21 M tons; Punjab
0.52 M tons; Andhra Pradesh 0.11 M tons; Bihar 0.26 M tons; and Himachal Pradesh
0.02 M tons. Projections include the godowna under NCDC II Project.
/h  Capacities are based on the number of PACS godownas in each State, and on
estimated 80 ton average size of godowns.



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Potato Production and Cold Storage Capacity in the Project States
(Thousand Tonnes)
Uttar Pradesh   West Bengal   Bihar   Punjab   Madhya Pradesh   Haryana
Production 1978/79                   4,500           2,340       1,500    800           232             275
Storable Surplus /a                  2,250           1,170         780    480           139            165
Existing Cold Storage                1,086             803         300    350            91            136
Capacity
Additional Capacity Required         1,164             366         450    130            48              29
Capacity Proposed for the              600             180         140     40            24              16 /c
Cooperative Sector /b
Ia   Fifty percent of production in Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar; 60% in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh
and Haryana. The assumption6 use"; in calculating the storageable surplus include: (a) 80% of the
total production is winter crop; (b) consumption pattern is even throughout the year, if potatoes
are available; (c) cold storage facilities are not needed for the consumption of 2-3 months after               F 
the harvest; (d) consumption prospects in the production area; and (e) experience from the areas with
high concentration of cold stores and production.                                                               W
/b The part reserved for cooperatives is 50% of the additional capacity created (except in Bihar 30%).
This is to be built in two equal phases. NCDC II Project contains the first half of the estimated
requirement.
/c In addition, 12,000 tons in the consumption centers for marketing purposes.



-58-
-58-    ANNEX I
Table 14
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Project Costs: Godown Component
(Rs M)
1         2         3          4          5
1981/82   1982/83   1983/84.  1984/85   1985/86    Total
1. Construction of Godowns 1/
Andhra Pradesh
Market Godowns                         2.74      2.74       2.74      2.74       2.74         13.70
Rural Godowns                        44.94      4r4*94     44.94     44.94      44.94        224.70
Bihar
Market Godowns                       10.25      20.27      20.13     20.12      16.11         86.43
Himachal Pradesh
Market Godowns                        1.32       2.63       2.63      2.63       2.71         11.91
Rural Godowns                         7.07      14.44     14.44      14.43      14.44        64.82
Maharashtra
Market Godowns                       18.60      18.60     18.60      18.60      20.00         94.40
Rural Godowns                        36.99      37.67     37.68      37.67      34.94       184.95
Punjab
Market Godowns                       32.00      32.00     32.00      32.00      32.00       160.00
Rural Godowns                        53.81      53.81     53.81      53.81     53.81        269.05
Technical Assistance                       1.25      1.25       0.23      0.15       0.15          3.03
Supporting Investments                    3.26       1.37      0.48       0.48       0.48         6.07
Total Base Costs                   212.03    229.55    227.64    227.56    222.28        1,119.06
Physical Contingencies                   11.53      13.24     13.10      13.10     12.84         63.82
Price Contingencies  2/                   8.48      29.84     47.80      63.72     77.80        227.64
Total Costs, Godown Component      232.03    272.64    2RA.55    304.38    312.92        12410.52
1/ For the number of godowns, see Table 14.1.
2/ The base prices are updated to December 1980. Price contingencies representing price increases have been
added by using the following estimated inflation rates, compounded annually: Project year 1, 4.5%
(representing the mid-year cost for the first year's construction); year 2, 9%; year 3, 8%; years 4-5, 7%.



iEcCONDIt NEcl D   iOJECI
2. lf.IV.JE CT C OC r;,Cc  c, 51 IA
{  ;^nlOI'iQ.    1t1 j 1t H  H.
BI~ILHAI
IS;T YEEAR   2ND YEAR   3RDJ YEAR  4111 YEAR :    SH (EAR      TO ToL
TONS OF COLDISTORAGE  )                   20.0        24.0         24 .0          -          -         8.0
CSI PfER TON                           1,190.0    1'190.0    1,190.0-                        -- 
CONSTRUCTION COSTS                    23,0O.0   28p560.0   28,560.0              --
11ARVETING COMPONENT                     270.0       120.0            -          -           -       390.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANtlCETl-IHftlND         225 . 0     225.0         25.0       25.0       25.o        525.0
SUPPORTING INVESTMENs                    125 .0      125- 0           -          _                   250.0
SUBTOTAL BIHAR                        24,420,0   29,030.0   20,585.0          25,0       25.0   82,085.0
HARYANA
ToNS OF COLDI STORAGE                     16.0        12.0            -                      -        28.0
COST FER  TON            r             1,190.0    1,190.0       1,190.0           -          --   3,570.0
i:tHTSRUCTION COSTS                   J9040.0   14,280.0              -           -          -   33,320.0
MARtCTING COMPONENI                      270.0       120.0            -           -          -       390.0
TECHNICAL ASSI STANCE, TRAINING          120.0       f20.0         20.0       20.0        20.0       300.0
SUPPORTING INVESTMENIS                    40.0        30.0            -           --                  70.0
S-H0TOTAL HARYANA                     19,470.0   14.550-0          20.0       20.0        20.0   34,080,0
NiAItHYA PRADESH
TONS Of COLEiSTORAEG                       8.0         8.0            -          -                    16.0
(OST PER TON                           1,190,0    1,190.0       1,190.0                            3 1,570.0
CONSTRUCTION COSTS                     9,520.0    9,520.0             -           -          -   19,040.0
MARKETING COMFONENr                      135,0        60.0            -           -          -       195.0(
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPTRAINING            250.0       250.0         75.0       50.0       50.0        675.0
51JPPORTING INVESTMENTS;                  30.0        25.0                                   -        55.0
SUBTOTAL MADIHYA PRADESH              9,935.0    9,1355.0          75.0       50.0       50.0   19.965.0
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O- IA
TONS Ll COLI)STOPAGE                      16.0        16.0            --32.0
C.OST PERf TON                        1I190.0    1,190.0        1,190.0                -           3 570.0
CONSSRUCTION CO)STS:                  19,040.0   19,040,0                                    -   ;38,080.()
riFiiETIN( COMFONEN1                    135.0        60.0                        -          -       195.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEoTRAI.N(;            2?G00.0     200.0         25./       25.0       25.0        475.0
.I,IIPPfOIRTJiN6 INVErSIdE.NTS            40.0        40.0           -.          -           -        NO.0
tIB1ITOWE4. PUNIJAIT                  19,415.0   19,340.(0         25;.       25.0i      2,.0   38.830.0



SECOND' NCDC PROJECT
2. PROJECT COSTS:COLD STORAGE (Cont'd)
AMOUNTS IN RS 1000)
UIJTAR PRADESH                       1ST YEAR   2ND YEAR   3RD YEAR  4TH YEAR  5TH YEAR           TOTAL
TONS OF'COLDSTORAGE 1)                 1000,        88.0        88.0          -          -       276.0
COST PER TON                         1,190.0    1,190.0    1,190.0                       -    3,570#0
CONSTRUCTION COSTS                 119,000.0  104,720.0  104,720.0            -          -  328,440.0
MARKETING COMPONENT                    540.0       240.0           -          -          -       780.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEITRAINING          175,0       175.0        25.0       25.0       25,0       425.0
SUPPORTING INVESTMENTS                 500.0       470.0           -          -          -       970.0
SUBTOTAL UTTAR FRADESH             120,215.0  105P605,0  104,745.0         25.0       25.0  330,615,0
WEST BENGAL
ltONS OF COLDSTORAGE 1)                 28.0        28,0        32.0                     -        88.0
COST PER TON                -1190.0    1,190,0    1,19000                                -    3,570.0
CONSTRUCTION COSTS                  339320.0   33,320.0   389080.0            -          -  104,720.0
MARKETING COMPONENT                   .270.0       120.0           -          -          -       390.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.TRAINING          425,0       425.0       125.0       75.0       75.0    1,125,0
SUPPORTING INVESTMENTS                 150.0       150.0           -          -          -       300.0
SUBTOTAL WEST BENGAL                34,165,0   34,015,0   38,205.0         75.0       75.0  106,535,0
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
RESEARCH AND  DEVELOFMENT COSTS    2,000.0    2,000.0    2,000.0   1,000,0   1,000.0    8,000,0
BASE COST                           229Y620.0  214P395.0  173,655.0   1,220.0   1,220.0  620,110.0                  4 
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               11,481,0   10,719.8    8,682.8         61,0       61.0   31s005.6
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   9,184,8   27,871.4   36,467.6        341,6      427,0   74,292.4
TOTAL SUBPROJECT COST               250,285,8  252,986.2  218,805.4   1,622.6   1,708.0  725,408.0
1) UNIT COST IS RS 1190/TON. TONNAGE
RE:FERS TO COLD STORES COMPLETED



ANNEX 1
- 61 -                                         Table 14.1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Phasing of Godown Construction
PREPROJECT          YEAR 1                YEAR 2                YEAR 3                 YEAR 4                YEAR 5          TOTAL
YEAR 19!  1ST HALF 2ND HALF  IST HALF 2ND HALF  1ST hALF 2lD HALF  1ST HALF  2ND HALF  1ST HALF 2ND HLUF   NO.
Andhra Pradesh
Rural ,odown' a-
- initiated              300           300        300        300       300         300       300         300        300         300        -
- cospleted 23             -           300        300        300        300        300       300         300        300         300       300        3000
Market Goslowns
- initiated                15           15         10         10         10         10        10          10         10           -        -
- completed                 -           10         10         10         10         10        10          10         18          10        10        100
Bihar
Market Godowns
- initiated                28           16         15         16         15         15        15          15         14          -         -
- ccmpleted                 -           14         14         16         15         16        is          15         15          15        14       149
Himachal Pradesh
Rural Godowns-/
- ir.itiated                -          120        125        120       125         120       125         120        125         120
- ccmpleted                 -           -         120        125       120         125       120         125        120         125       120      1100
Market, Godowns a/
- initiated                 -           12         18         10          9         10        10          11         12           5         -
- completed                 -            -          9          9        10          10         9          10         10          10        10         87
MKaharashtra
6/
Rural Godowns-
- ilLitigted               135         136        135        136       135         135       136         135        136         135        -
- completed                 -          135        136        135        136        135       135         136        135         136       135      1350
Market: Godowns -
- iniitiated                82           42        41         42         41         42         41'        42         40          -         -
- completed                 -            40        42         41         42         41        42          41         42          40        42        413
P'un-jab
Rural Godowns -8
- itlitiated              155           155       155         155       155         155       155        155         155        155         -
- completed                -            155       155         155       155         155       155        155         155        155        155      1550
Market. Godowns -/
- initiated                 30           15         15         15         15         15        15          15         14          1         -        149
- completed                -              5         25         15         15         15        15          15         15          15        14
'Total NHmber
of Units Completed
- Rurzal godowns             _                  1301                 1426                 1425                   1426                  1426           7000
- Market Godowns             _                  169                    183                 183                    183                   180            898
.1/ A half of rural godowns are assumed to require living quarters for the Secretary/Manager.
.:/ "Initiated" meaning that all subproject preparation, appraisal and loan formalities have been concluded and tenders awarded.
3/  "Completed" meaning that the godowns are ready for operations.  The construction period is estimated from    6 months for Rural Godowns
to 8-10 months for Market Godowns (assuming that materials are available).
4/  A half of the units are 100 tons each, and a half 50 tons  (82,5o0  tons total).
51  Units are of the size 250 tons each (21.750 tons total).
6/ A half of units are 100 tons each, another half 200 tons.
7/ The capacity of units ranges from 500-12,000.
I/ About 300 units of 500 tons each and 1,250 units of 200 tons.
1/ The units range from 1,000 to 10,000 tons.
10/  la toe implementation plans, the preproject year will be merged with the project years 1 - 2 in the States where delays in
the initiation have taken place.



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Phasing of Cold Store Construction
Preproject
Initiated Cold Stores Ia           Year /e   Year 1          Year 2          Year 3        Year 4      Year 5
Bihar                                2            9         6 (+2 /c)       8 /c              8 /c
Haryana                              2            5         1 /c            1 /c              1 /c
Madhya Pradesh                       2            2         1 /c            1 /c              I /c
Punjab                               4            4         1 c             1 /c              1 /c
Uttar Pradesh                       36 /d        22        11 (+5 /c)      25 /c             25 /c
West Bengal                          6 /d         7         8 (+2 Ic)      10 /c             10 /c
Completed Cold Stores
for NCDC II lb
Bihar                                -            2         9               6 (+4 /c)         8 /c         8/c
Haryana                              -            2         5               1 /c              1 /c         1/c
Madhya Pradesh                       l/d          2         1               2 /c              1 /c         1 /c
Punjab                               -            4         4               1/c               l/c          I7 
Uttar Pradesh                        3 /d        19        25              22 (+8 Ic)        35 /c        35 Ic
West Bengal                          1 Id         6         7               8 (+2 /c)        10 Ic        1O Ic
/a    "I!~Jnitia~ted" ~meaninZgtha7tall subproject preparation, appraisal and loan formalities have been concluded            d
and tenders awarded.                                                                                                      t
/b    "completed" meaning that the cold storage plants are ready for operation.  The construction period is
estimated to be 12-18 months for each unit.  In individual cases, NCDC may extend the period to 24
months.
/c    As preparation for Phase II of the Cold Storage Program (not financed under NCDC II), which has to be
appraised and approved separately by GOI and IDA.
/d    In most of these the step "conclusion of loan formalities" had been reached prior to the preproject year.
/e    Preproject year ends when the credit has been signed.  In the implementation plans, the preproject year
will be merged with the project years 1 - 2 in the States where delays in the initiation have taken
place.



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs ot Uiodowns.  ctober 19S0
(Ra)
Cost of
Construction Cost      Water                    Total
Model    Model Description          Roof Type          Godown       Residence   R tL          Land      Cost                        Remarks
Al      ioo ton godown             Reinforced    2/    58,500                -    2,500-2   2,000       63,000 4/       Godown has  2 storage chambers each
(without residence)       concrete slabl-                                                                      5.8. x 5. and 2 front rooms each
3.66. x 3. with interconnecting
verandah.
A2      100 ton godown             Asbestos cement      55,500               -    2,500       2,000      60,000
(without residence)       sheets on steel
truss
A3      100 ton godown             R.C. slab            58,500         20,000    2,500        2,000      83,000         Residence of 33. , having 2 roaws
(with residence)                                                                                               with outside W.C.
A4      100 ton godown             A.C. sheet           55,500         20,000    2,500        2,000      80,000
(with residence)
B1      200 ton godown             R.C. slab           105,200               -    2,500       3,500    111,200          Godown has one storage chmber of
(without residence)                                                                                            12.2m x 7.6. (or may have internal
partition wall to form 2 chambers).
B2      200 ton godown             A.C .sheet           99,600                -   2,500       3,500    105,600          Also 2 front roms each 3.66. x 3m
(without residence)                                                                                            with intercoonecting verandah.
B3      200 ton godown             R.C. slab           105,200          20,000   2,500        3,500    131,200          Residence of 33m2.  having 2 roms with
(with residence)                                                                                               outside W.C.                                       '
B4      200 ton godown             A.C. sheet           99,600          20,000   2,500        3,500    125,600
(with residence
Cl      250 ton godown             A.C. sheet           98,500                -   2,500       4,000    105,000          Plain storage chamber of 15.4m x 9.3m
C2      250 ton godown with        A.C. sheet          128,500                -   2,500       4,000    135,000          As Cl, with 2 front rooma end inter-
offices                                                                                                        connecting verandah, as A3, A4, B3, h4.
C3      250 ton godown with        A.C. sheet          128,500          20,000   2,500        4,000    155,000          As C2,'wtth residence of 33.2, having
offices and residence                                                                                          2 rooms with outside W.C.
Dl      500 ton godown             A.C. sheet          205,000                -   2,500      10,000    217,750          Plain storage chmber of 17.42m x 16m.
D2      500 ton godown with        A.C. sheet          237,500                -   2,500      10,000    250,000          As Dl, with 2 front rooms each 4.28.
offices                                                                                                        x 3.22. end interconnecting verandah.
D3      500 ton godown with        A.C. sheet          237,500          20,000   2,500       10,000    270,000          As D2, with residence of 33. , having
offices and residence                                                                                          2 rooms with outside W.C.
El      1,000 ton godown           A.C. sheet          340,500                -   4,500      25,000    370,000          Internal *rea 570.2
2
Fl      5,000 ton  odown           A.C. sheet        1,695,500                -   4,500      50,000  1,750,000          Internal area 2,830m
( two f or l,00tn                 
The cost estimates are for the States of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Naryana and the more accessible areas of Himachal Pradesh,  Costs for lihar, Madhya
Pradesh, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh may average 15% lower, mainly because of lower costs of labor.  Costs for the hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh
may average 157 more than those tabulated.  Difficult hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh may be also 45% more.
2/ A reinforced concrete slab roof is recommended for minimum storm damage, less corrosion and more effective fumigation. Slab construction is
essential where the living quarters are above the godown.
3/ Potable water would be provided for laborers and draft animals, and would be available for the society members.
4/ Costs do not include compound walls, approach roads or electrification, which are expected to be provided by the societies thelves.



-64-
ANNEX 1
Table 14.4.
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Cost of Cold Stores
(Rs)
Preparation Report Estimates    Updated Estimates, October 1980
4,000 ton                  4,000 ton         2,000 ton
Land (0.8 Ha), (0.6 Ha)                    70,000                      80,000             60,000
Building Structure                      1,800,000                   2,250,000         1,500,000
Site Development,                          30,000                      60,000             50,000
Fencing, Roads
Water Supply, Pump, Tank,                  75,000                      75,000             75,000
Piping, Drainage
Electrical Feeder                         140,000                     175,000           150,000
Up to 1 km
:.:ulation                              480,000                      500,000           275,000
Machinery                                 850,000                     890,000           526,500
Engineering Supervision                    50,000                      70,000            45,000
3,495,000                   4,100,000         2,681,500



-65-
ANNEX 1
Table 14.5
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Costs of Refrigeration Machinery for Cold Stores 1/
(Rs)'
4,000 Ton               2,000 Ton
Ex-Factory               Installed                Installed
Cost       Number        Cost       Number_     Cost
lmmonia Compressor             67,500         3         250,000        2        167,000
MIain Motors, Starters          30,000        3         114,000        2         76,000
Oil Separator                                 1           5,000        1          4,000
Condensers, Connections         9,500         8          78,000        4         39,000
Rece:Lver                                     1          14,000                  12,000
Air Coolers                   260,000         8         240,000        4        120,000
Thermrometers and other         4,000         2           8,000        1          4,000
Instruments
Refrigerant Piping and                                   24,000                  15,000
Pipe Insulation
Condenser Water Pumps                         3          16,500        2         11,000
Water Piping                                             18,500                  12,000
Air Ducting                                              60,000                  30,000
Ammonia Gas Oil                                          20,000                  12,000
Electrical Panel,                                        30,000                  18,000
Wiring
Insulated Doors                                          10,000                   5,000
Painting                                                  2,000                   1,500
890,000                 526,500
1/ October 1980.



-66-                               ANNEX 1
Table 14.6
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Services
No. of      Man-month
Participating Banks                                Units    Per Unit    Total
Strengthening Special Loans Dept.;
setting up of O&M Dept.                            6        18          108
Rehabilitation                                       3         12          36
State Cooperative Marketing Federations
Setting up Marketing Divisions
-  Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal              3          4          12
-  Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana                3          2           6
Manuals for Cold Stores 1/
Machine Maintenance                                 (6)        (2)          12
Stock Control and Accounts                          (6)        (3)         18
Product Handling and Quality Control                (6)        (2)          12
Manuals for Godowns 1/
Fertilizer Operations                               (5)        (2)         10
Produce Procurement and Storage                     (5)        (2)         10
Consumer Shop Operations                            (5)        (2)         10
Training and Implementation of Manuals
Training of Operational Staff for Cold               -          -          24
Stores
Training of Trainers; Godowns                        -          -           6
264
1/ There would be only one centrally prepared manual for each purpose. The
number of units is noted for cost sharing purposes, to indicate the need
to visit all States when preparing the manuals and possibly include their
special features in the manuals.



-67-
Annex 1
INDIA                           Table 14.7
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Investment in Vehicles and Malketing
--------------Year----------------
1       2        3       4        5      Total
Vehicles for Construction and Supervision
Motor Vehicles 1/
No.                            60       21      -         -        -        81
Rs.'000                     3,600   1,260       -         -       -      4,860
Scooters 2/
No.                           191       88     25        25      25        354
Rs.'O00                     1,146      528    150       150     150      2,124
Bicycles 3/
No.                           650      710    715       715     710      3,500
Rs.'000                       227      249    250       250     249      1,225
Development of Potato Marketing Units -
Establishment of offices, including
ancillery equipment, Rs. '000       230     230       -        -        -       460
Vehicles                            540     540       -        -        -     1,080
Capitalized preoperating
expenses                            900       -       _        _                900
I/   Four-wheel vehicles, or when conditions allow, motor cars for the state
level officers and divisional level Assistant Eng:ineers (5 for NCDC Zonal/
Regional offices; 9 for SCB's State level officers; 67 for the divisional
level officers; at the maximum cost of Rs. 60,000 each) (see Annex 1,
Tables 15.1-15.2).
2/   For all Project Development Officers at the field level (55), Engineering
Supervisors (172); and Cold Store Managers (127); at the cost of Rs.6,000
each.
'L/ A half of the new godown managers are estimated to need credit financing
for their bicycles; Rs. 350 each.
4/   Estimated need for marketing offices in capitals and major potato-growing
areas in the Project States and main distribution/consumption markets is
18. For consultancy services, 18 man-months are reserved separately
(Annex 1, Table 14.6).



-68-
ANNEX 1
Table 14.8
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Engineering Equipment for Design,
Layout and Inspection Work
Number of Equipment Items       Unit       Total
Godown     Cold Storage        Cost        Cost
Component      Component         Rs          Rs
Dumpey level and
levelling rod 1/  2/                    52             20           2,940    211,700
Prismatic compass 1/ 2/                 52              20             165     11,800
Drawing boards  2/  3/                    5             26             415     12,800
Drawing instruments 2/  3/                5             26             290      9,000
Plumb bob 4/                           165              42              20      4,100
Spirit level 4/                        165              42              40      8,300
Iron square 4/                         165             42               40      8,300
Measuring gauge 4/                     165              42              20      4,100
Measuring tapes 4/                     165              42             125     25,900
Total funds needed    296,000
1/ For the godown construction, all divisional level Assistant Engineers in the
Federation and participating banks;
2/ One for each two cold stores being built at a time, within the same area.
3/ For the Executive Engineer's office at the State level
4/ For each Engineering Supervisor; in the case of cold storage one such instrument
is needed for each unit under construction at a time.



-69-
ANNEX 1
Table 15
INDIA
SECONn NATIONAL COOPERAT1VE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Technical and Professional Manpower Needs for Godowns During Construction Phase
Project
Project    Development   Executive         Assistant   Engineering         Site
StAte/Organization      Godowns   Officers       Officers    Engineers 51  'Engineers   Supervisors   Sunervisors
Uaic
*  Deljhi Office 1/                 1              -             -                1             -
Zonal/Reg.                       8              -             1                3             -
Offices /
Anulhra Pradesh
Federation 3/         100        1              -             1               3              6              15
SCB 4/              3,000        2             16             1              12            45              400
Bihar
- Federation 3/          149       1               2             1               4             8               10
tunachal Pradesh
Federation 3/         120        1              -             1               6             24             180
SCB 4               1,100        2              8             1               2 6/           4              15
Mah.rsshtra
-  Federation 3/         413        1              -             1               8             28              80
-  SLDB 4/             1,350        2              8             1                6            22             200
'Puujab
- Federation 3/          149        1              -             1               9            24              210
-  s3;4/               1.550        2              9             1               26/            46/            20
Totals                   7j931       22             43            10               56           165           1.150
1 Additional staff.
2/ Bihar office would need two project officers, one executive engineer and two assistant engineers.
3/  In the Federations the suggested annual planning and inspection task would be 5-7 godowns for an Assistant
Engineer and inspection of 2-3 godowni' construction for an Engineering Supervisor (Junior Engineer).               --
Site supervisors are needed for each unit under construction.
4/ In 8he SCB an Assistant Engineer would scrutinize the drawings and start (and partially inspect) 50-60
godowns a year and later monitor the problem societies' progress. Site supervisors are needed for each
1-2 godowns depending on distance between them. This efficiency will be achieved if there is at least one
Assistant Engineer in each division, one Engineering Supervisor in each district and one Project Development
Officer for one or two districts depending on the workload.
5/  Some Federations and SCBs already have one Executive Engineer on their staffs.
6/ In Hizachal Pradesh and Punjab, the Federations would be contracted to do most of the operations connected
vith the godown construction work.



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Technical Manpower Needs for Cold Stores During Construction Phase
Project     Executive   Assistant   Engineering   Site
State            Cold Stores      Officers    Engineers   Engineers   Supervisors   Supervisors  2/
Bihar                    35              2            1            2               -           6
Haryana                  10              1            (1)1/        1             -             4
Madhya Pradesh            8              1            (1)1/        1             -             2
Punjab                   11              1            (1)1/        1             -             4
Uttar Pradesh           139-             3            1            2             7            22
West Bengal              44              2            1            2             -             7
NCDC                                     2            2            2             7             -
Total              247            12             5(+3)       11             7            45
1/ The SCB Executive Engineer as his part time duty..
21  Based on construction schedule in Table 14.2.
In
I F3 
8-i



-71-
ANNEX 1
INDIA                                    Table 16
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Summary of Employment Effects
(Man-years)
Godown Component        Cold Storage and
Marketing Component
Manpower connected with Construction
Project Officers and field development
officers 1/                                       65                       12
Technical staff of Banks/SCMF 1/ 2/               1,380                       65
Construction workers 3/
-Skilled or semi-skilled                       18,400                    2,300
-unskilled                                     37,600                    2,780
Total During the project implementation
period                                        57,445                   5,157
Business operations of cooperatives
Manager/Secretaries                                7,000                    127
Storekeepers/assistants                           7,500                     127
Watchmen/peon                                      3,860                    254
Other Staff                                            -                    508
Handlers and sorters, casual 5/                   11,600                  2,280
Total Annual employment                          34,960                   3,296
Incremental farm labor 6/                        35,000                   1,000
1   See Table 15.  Part of this staff would become permanent, as similar needs would
appear also in the future.
2/  Technical staff would be employed for 5 years, but at least a half would be needed
also later for similar tasks.    -
3/  The construction workers would be employed for 5 years.  The following averages and
typical cases have been used;
-rural godowns (composite model 180 tons) 20 men/women for 3 months; one third of
them are skilled workers;
-market godowns (composite model 1,000 tons): 35 men/women for 6 months; one third
of them are skilled workers;
-cold stores (4,000 tons): 40 men/women for 10 months; 45% of them are skilled
workers or staff.
4/  At the time when all project units have been constructed, each PACS would have a
manager and a watchman and the godowns bigger than 100 tons also a storekeeper.
All market godowns would have a store keeper, an assistant and two watchmen. The
cold stores would emplgy a manager, an assistant, 4-5 technical and other staff
and one peon and one watchman.
5!  About 18 man-years for each cold store, one man-year for each rural godown and five
man-years for each market godown.
6!  In the fifth year, assuming 5% increase of potato production due to availability of
storage facilities, the additional on-farm employment would be about 8 man-years per
each cold store. An increase of 10% in the use of fertilizers due to vicinity of the
godowns is est4mated to require about 5 man-years of harvesting labor in the area of
each primary level godown (each ton harvested about 25-30 man-days).



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVLEOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Oranization Chart of NCDC
Gnemral Council
Boawd of Mawonagmnt
Manai                                                                                                    D Diruetore
a   r                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~office
Financial     *           Chief Drecr                  Ch                           Chief Di    
Advisor  -        ~Mwrketing anroesdn                                        C;ote edInutr
Storage                                               Wek Setin
[H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pbi    :1-I-Ei
}1 ; E ! E;-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rrl                                                                                   Spnnn                         Rl,
PRuonnel                  Arant a                        S                                                                          IIg
and  krenins    _t Aud i t                                                                                                                                                        I
Coordination             L Acc-t                                                                                    lndultreI
Administ,rtion                 Budgets                      StoresV                                                                                Ctto     _ecalst
Special Projects                                                                                                                                     Silk                                       -
0 & M Evaluation                 11-4al                      FertilizerPlyse
and Miaclianeous               Documnants                   end rInputs                  Fodeais                       iVStclPlyester 
Regional                                      IIIIIIrtI
and Projer                                                                                              1I                                                           
World Bank - 22296



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Haryana State Cooperative Bank
Board of Directors
Managing Director
Deposits                                           Loan                               Establ ishment                       Development and                                      Training and
Dapartment                                       Department                             Department                         Planning Department                               Inspection Department
(Deputy General Manager)                         (Deputy General Manager)               (Deputy General Manager)               (Deputy General Manager)                           (Deputy General Manager)
Establishment
Managers    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~nOfficr                                                                                Managr                                            Managr
Savings      _  _          Cash                    Cash        _   _       Special-                                          Policies and                                        Training
k                       Deposits                 Credit                   Projects                                           Procedures                                          Center
I    Cutrent  L   _       Funds       l   l       Term         L   j    Industrial and                                       Research and                                        Inspection
|    Account    l       Maintenance               Finance            Rehabilitation Cells                                      Statistics                                          Division
Term                    Internal
Deposit                    Check
|Assistant Manager IISenior Accountant
Assistant Managers                                  Accountants                                                                 Assistant Manager                                  Faculty Members
Accountants                                        Engineers                                                                 Statistical Assistant                                 Inspctors
     }    Dev. Officers    l                                           l                    l                            l     Inspectorsn c
*This is the Division handling the NCDC I Schemes.                                                                                                                                              World Bank - 22294



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
B3. Nodel Design of 250 Ton Godown
PARAPET
PURLIN           /      A.C. SHEET AS ROOFING
*IR[ACE SHE[T
C PRROJFECTION
g ; ; = j ~~~~~~~~~~~STEEL TRUSS                               |IHGROUND
STEEL DOORS                                 VENTILATOR
PLATFORM                          V 1 PLINT LEVEL
/      ARTIFICIAL
OVER CEMENT       STONE FLOORING
CONCRETE
FRONT ELEVATION                                           SECTION A-A
A 
VH       VH       VH       VH        VH                         SCHEDULE OF DOOR AND VENTILATOR
DOORS        D  2.4mxl1.5m    STEEL HINGED RINGED
GODOWN      |D    2  x15    | S E   HISHUTTER
1!.6 x9.53m                            VENTILATORS  V  600 x 600     GLAZED VENTILATOR
_m.LRIDGE                       VH 300 x 300     GROUND VENTILATOR
9.53m
STEEL
TRUSS
VH                VH                VH
DD
PLATFORM 5'-0" WIDE|
15.6m
A -LW                                                                                          k
.PLAN                                                                      World Bank -22258



- 75 -
Annex 1
Chart 4
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPROATION PROJECT
Dl. Model design for 500 Ton Godown
X tX                         3FAP ETPARAPET
lTrn                         ____r
_  |   n  n     O          AIRI LET_   |      g7P5~~~~~~TONE FLOORING      <
30 cm. TH. FILLING FROM
EXCAVATED AND LOCAL
ELEVATION                                          SOIL IN EQUAL LAYERS
r  A                                               SECTION A-A
         18.0 m. C/C
_    Iv  I    I    Iv
16 X 17.42 m.
16.34 m.           TRUSS
CC IC
v            I 
'w'  I+A      w
PLAN                                                                    World Bank - 22261



- 76 -
Annex 1
Chart 5
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Model Lay-out Plan for 4000 Ton Cold Store
75m.
_W/C
JCOURT                                                               TUBE WELL
IYARDI
VARD1  VERANDAH                          OVERHEAD TANK        E
VERANDAH
CONDENSER
TANK
_      30 m.      525m. 3m65m
15.45m
MIC ROOM
10D M.<
O  CHAMBER I               CHAMBER II
.-
0
SORTING AREA         I    -     - -~~~~V ER AND AH
l/% BOUNDARY WALL
NOTES:  1. Size of Land          = 100m- X 75 m.
2. Area of Land        = 0.75 Ha
3. Area of Chamber     = 98654m2.
4. Area ot Sorting Place   = 297.4 m2
5. Area of Machine Room  =  94.5 m2
6. Area of Office Block    =  72.2 m2
7. Area of Cooling Tank   =  83.6 m2
8. Area of Overhead Tank  =   7.0 m2
9. Length of Boundary    = 350 m.
MAIN ROAD
World Bank-- 22259



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Cross Section of 4000 Ton Cold Store
.  FIFTH
L   L   L~~~~~~~~~IFUT [L           LEV =1LL
El F] E] EZ mZ    ZlZZ
iEl IL   L   L[XL          1 ,                                            Bk 20 (
t    WAL<L    L  C[-XL F-----------
LE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                    26   -.  ___ _d)l



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Section Through Potato Cold Store
01
C>
SECTION
World Bank - 22253



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Construction of 4000 Ton Potato Cold Store
Time Reserved
Actbn5                         for the Action
{Daysi   0        30         60        90        120       150       180        210       240       270        300        330       360       390      420
1. Land Acquisition                  75
2. Tender Preparation                10
3. Tender Advertising                10
4  Response to Tender                21
5 Tender Evaluation                  15
6. Award/Signing of Contract         10
7 Contractor's Preparation           14
for Construction
8a Start of Construction             10
9- Plant Machinery Order             60
10, Completion up to Plinth           65
11. Completion up to Roof            150
12 1rtsulation and Installation of   120
M1achinery
13. Completion of Construction        30
4  ltspection and Approval           30
15 Final Payment to Contractor        30
16. Utilization of the Store          30
World Bank - 22267



-80-
ANNEX 2
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$M)
IDA Fiscal Year                           Disbursement
and Quarter                    In Quarter           Cumulative
1982   1st
2nd
3rd                         7.1
4th                         7.1
Subtotal                   23.3                23.3
1983   1st                          7.2
2nd                         4.7
3rd                         8.7
4th                         8.9
Subtotal                   29.5                52-.8
1984   1st                          8.8
2nd                         4.5
3rd                         8.4
4th                         8.4
Subtotal                   30.1                82.9
1985   1st                          8.5
2nd                         2.6
3rd                         5.0
4th                         5.0
Subtotal                   21.1               104.0
1986   1st                          5.0
2nd                         2.7
3rd                         5.1
4th                         5.1
Subtotal                    17.9             121.9
Rg87  'Ist                           3.1             125.0



-81-
ANNEX 3
Page l
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subproject Outline and Criteria 1/
Contents of Preparation Reports for Godown Subprojects
(Information to be given in tables, brief narratives and statements)
1.   General
-    Name and address of borrower cooperative, registration
number, district, State and lending bank.
2.   Background
-    year of establishment and possible mergers;
-    growth of membership;
-    population, families in agriculture and other occupations;
-    area covered (names of villages, km )
-    nearest rail station, markets and distances;
-    agricultural area, irrigated part;
-    share capital, reserves.
3.   Agricultural Production
-    agricultural activities in the area--crops, yields;
-    farm inputs used and projections;
-    agricultural projections in tons.
4.   Storage
-    Available facilities, vertical links with RCMS, SCMF,
SWC, CWC, FCI, IFFCI, others;
1/   References to Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS) also
refer to State Cooperative Marketing Federation (SCMF) and Regional
Cooperative Marketing Societies (RCMS) wherever appropriate.



-82-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
storage available--all private godowns existing within
the area of operation of the society--usage, distance
and ownership.
5.   Operations
-    present arrangements for handling existing volume of
proposed activities by society;
-    level of ST and MT credit availed;
-    credit record--five years (granted, repaid, overdues).
6.   The Project
-    quantitative justification of project size and targets;
-    reason for selecting project location and land size;
-    choice of godown design and justification for manager's
residence, if any, and proposed special changes from
specified construction design and standards.
7.   Project Costs
-    summary of investment costs with quarterly phasing.
8.   Organization and Management
-    number, names and role of committee members;
-    qualification, experience, training and salaries of
manager/secretary and other employees;
-    implementation schedule with monthly phasing.
9.   Business and Finances
-    projected business--inputs, crop handling, consumer
goods, credit;
-    borrowing, investment cost, projected cash flow of
all income and repayment items.
10.   Social Benefits
-    projections of the number of families participating;
-    land area to be covered by members, landless farmers,
tribals, scheduled castes;
-    social and community development plans of the society.



-83-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
11.   Project Risks
Main sources of risk to the attainment of project
objectives.
Cover Page
Loan Application Form
Annexes
-    Area Map with PACS Location
-    Bylaws of the Borrower
-    Godown Specification
-    Project Cost Details
-    Cash Flow Statements
-    Audited Accounts
-    Drafts of Unaudited Accounts
-    Statistical Tables
-    Financial Forecasts



-84-
ANNEX 3
Page 4
Criteria for NCDC and State Cooperative Bank Appraisal of Godown
Subprojects 1/
1.   General:
(a) Subproject objective to be in keeping with the Development
Credit Agreement between IDA and GOI, Project Agreement
between IDA and NCDC and financial arrangements between
GOI and NCDC.
(b) Willingness of State Cooperative Bank (SCB) or State Land
Development Bank (SLDB) concerned to enter into an agree-
ment with NCDC, subject to Government of State (GOS)
approval, defining subproject objectives, organization,
financing, and mutual responsibilities and rights.
(c) Cooperative bylaws governing the borrowers and SCB/SLDB
regarding capital, borrowing powers and objectives to be
deemed adequate by NCDC.
(d) Subproject preparation reports and loan applications to be
submitted by borrowers to be in such form, content and
detail as prescribed by NCDC and agreed with IDA.
(e) Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS) to be
reorganized and amalgamated as necessary to become viable
and acceptable to NCDC as qualified borrowers under the
Godown Construction Scheme.
(f) Arrangements satisfactory to NCDC are made by PACS to main-
tain and improve loan recoveries from members.
(g) PACS shall have demonstrated, in the relevant previous
financial year, satisfactory performance in respect of
obligations to SCB/SLDB, District Central Cooperative
Bank (DCCB), i.e., have made repayments in respect of 50%
or more of all sums due. In special circumstances, PACS
not meeting this standard could be deemed eligible to
participate in the project, provided NCDC is satisfied
that such PACS have adopted programs which would improve
their financial performance to meet this standard.
(h) There are no outstanding official investigations into
frauds or mismanagement.
(i) Borrower's annual accounts are audited in accordance with
the bylaws and in a timely manner. Draft accounts of com-
pleted financial years yet to be audited should be certi-
fied by Manager and President of borrower cooperative.



-85-
ANNEX 3
Page 5
:2.   Management Criteria:
(a)  Organization, staffing, training procedures and facilities
of borrowers are considered by the concerned SCB/SLDB and
NCDC to be satisfactory.
(b)  Organization, staffing, training procedures and facilities
of the concerned SCB/SLDB are considered by NCDC to be
satisfactory.
(c)  The Project Coordination Committee in the concerned State
is considered by NCDC to be adequately staffed to function
effectively.
(d)  Arrangements for staff continuity in borrower's and SCB/
SLDB organization is considered by NCDC to be satisfactory.
(e)  Subproject implementation schedules to be in such detail
as to enable close monitoring by borrowers, SCB/SLDB, NCDC
and IDA.
3.   Technical Criteria:
(a) Lands chosen for godown sites should be:
(i)  free of encumbrances until loan repayment is completed;
(ii) suitable for the type of godown construction and use
for which it is designed;
(iii)  not subject to flooding and having legal drainage outlet
for rain water;
(iv) easily accessible and served by access roads, or suitable
provision is made in the proposal for such roads;
(v)  large enough to provide for appertinent facilities and
foreseeable expansion of the godown. A minimum area to
be prescribed by NCDC for each of the different godown
models;
(vi) available with vacant possession to the borrower prior
to granting of the loan;
(vii)  not adjacent to objectionable installations, such as
garbage dumps, etc.
(b) Godown construction and appertinent facilities are in
accordance with national standards and designs approved
by NCDC in consultation with IDA and not in conflict with
existing construction codes.



-86-
ANNEX 3
Page 6
(c) Construction works supervision and inspection arrangements
should include employment of qualified civil engineers.
(d) Certification arrangements for progressive contract payments
to be in accordance with instructions issued by NCDC agreed
with IDA.
(e) Civil works to be carried out by engineering contractors
let on local competitive biddings in accordance with IDA
procurement guidelines and local procedures acceptable to
IDA.
4.   Financial and Viability Criteria:
(a) Data furnished by borrowers to be adequate to establish the
need for new, additional or improved godowns and appertinent
facilities and probability of full utilization of proposed
investment.
(b) Financial benefits accruing to the borrowing cooperatives
from storage of agricultural inputs, output and consumer
goods and the marketing thereof together with other rental
income should offer a minimum 10% average return (or other
rate as may be agreed between NCDC and IDA) on investment
calculated before deducting any portion of such benefits
passed on to their members.
(c) The financing plan in the subproject preparation report to
include arrangements satisfactory to NCDC for borrower's
working capital needs.
(d) Cash flow projections to permit completion of loan repay-
ment within 15 years, including the grace period.
5.   Appraisals by SCB/SLDB, NCDC and IDA:
(a) All subprojects to be appraised by SCB/SLDB. All godowns
of 1,000 ton capacity and above, and the first five godowns
of each of different capacities in each participating State
to be subject to NCDC's full appraisal and approval. Sub-
sequent subprojects to be reviewed by NCDC and approved.
IDA to review a selected number of subprojects during
follow-up visits.
(b) Subproject monitoring arrangements to include furnishing of
requested information to and periodical physical supervision
by SCB/SLDB concerned, NCDC and IDA.



-87-
ANNEX 3
Page 7
Contents of Preparation Reports for Cold Storage Subprojects
(Information to be given in tables, brief narratives and statements.)
1.   General
-    name and address of borrower cooperative, registration district,
State and lending bank;
-    dates of area surveys, member/user/farmer census in project area
carried out; and
-    how and by whom project was prepared.
2.   Background
-    year of establishment;
-    membership details;
-    population agricultural and other in project area;
-    area covered (names of villages, km )
-    agricultural area, irrigated part;
-    potato cultivation, storage, seed and marketing habits;
-    land holding and cropping pattern of member/user farmers; and
-    nearest rail station, markets, electricity substations and
distances.
3.   Agricultural Production
-    agricultural activities in the area--potato, other crops, areas,
yield, production, monthly prices for preceding five years; and
-    potato crop projections in tons for five years.
4.   Cold Storage Facilities
-    available facilities, with cooperatives, public agencies,
private sector in the project area;
-    capacity available--usage, distance and ownership in
neighboring areas; and
-    past experience in cold storage and potato procurement and
marketing.



-88-
ANNEX 3
Page 8
5.   Operations
-    present arrangements for handling potato grown; and
-    ST credit facilities available to borrower cooperative or
its members.
6.   The Project
-    brief description and justification of project objectives
and size;
-    reason for selecting project location;
-    procurement, financing and marketing arrangements;
-    space utilization plan if for rent; and
-    plans for trust loans to users.
7.   Project Costs
-    summary of investment costs with quarterly phasing.
8.   Organization and Management
-    number, names and role of committee members;
-    qualification, experience, training and salary scales of
manager and other employees;
-    proposals for recruitment and training of new employees; and
-    implementation schedule with monthly phasing.
9.   Business and Financial
-    investment costs and financing;
-    projected business, capacity utilization, seed needs,
rentals, and margins;
-    projected cash flow;
-    rate of return on investment; and
-    future plans for expansion.
10.  Economic and Soci-al Benefits
-    projections for the number of farmers participating;
-    potato area to be covered by users; and



-89-
ANNEX 3
Page 9
-    benefits accruing to member farmers/users and consumers.
. Project Risks
-    main sources of risk to the attainment of project objective.
Cove:ring Page
-    Loan Application Form
Anne:xes
-    Area Map with Cold Stores Location
-    Bylaws of the Borrower
-    Project Area Survey and Census Report
-    Cold Store Utilization Plan Accepted by Potential Users
-    Potato Marketing Plans (for SCMF)
-    Cold Stores Specification
-    Project Cost Details
-    Audited Accounts
-    Draft of Unaudited Accounts
-    Statistical Tables
-    Financial Forecasts
-    Cash Flow Statement



-90-
ANNEX 3
Page 10
Criteria for NCDC and State Cooperative Bank Appraisal of
Cold Storage Subprojects
1.   General:
(a) Subproject objective to be in keeping with the Development
Credit between IDA and GOI, Project Agreement between IDA
and NCDC and financial arrangements between GOI and NCDC.
(b) Willingness of State Cooperative Bank (SCB) or State Land
Development Bank (SLDB) concerned to enter into an agree-
ment with NCDC, subject to Government of State approval,
defining subproject objectives, organization, financing,
and mutual responsibilities and rights.
(c) Cooperative bylaws governing the borrowers and SCB/SLDB
regarding capital, borrowing powers and objectives to be
deemed adequate by NCDC.
(d) Subproject preparation reports and loan applications to be
submitted by borrowers to be in such form, content and
detail as prescribed by NCDC and agreed with IDA.
(e) Borrowing cooperatives are financially sound, annual accounts
are audited in a timely manner, and there are no pending
investigations into fraud or mismanagement.
(f) Field surveys and member/user census have been carried out
systematically by or on behalf of the borrower cooperatives,
and the cold store utilization plans and potato marketing
plans have been prepared with adequate care.
2.   Management Criteria:
(a) Organization, staffing, training procedures and facilities
of borrowers are considered by the concerned SCB/SLDB and
NCDC to be satisfactory. Arrangements for recruitment and
training of new/additional staff to be similarly satisfactory.
(b) Organization, staffing, training procedures and facilities
of the concerned SCB/SLDB are considered by NCDC to be
satisfactory.
(c) The Project Coordination Committee in the concerned State
is considered by NCDC to be adequately staffed to function
effectively.
(d) Arrangements for staff continuity in borrowers and SCB/SLDB
are considered by NCDC to be satisfactory.



-91-
ANNEX 3
Page 11
(e) Subproject implementation schedules to be in such detail
as to enable close monitoring by borrowers, SCB/SLDB,
NCDC and IDA.
3.   Technical Criteria:
(a) Lands chosen for cold stores sites should be:
(i)  free of encumbrances until loan repayment is completed;
(ii)  suitable for the type of cold store construction and
use for which it is designed, i.e., level, and firm
enough to take the weight of the building;
(iii) not subject to flooding and having legal drainage
outlet for rain water;
(iv)  easily accessible and served by access roads, or suit-
able provision made in the proposal for such roads;
(v)  large enough to provide for appertinent facilities
and foreseeable expansion of the cold store. The
minimum area to be prescribed by NCDC;
(vi)  available with vacant possession to the borrower prior
to granting of the loan;
(vii)  not adjacent to objectionable installations, such as
garbage dumps, etc.
(viii) less than 15 km from main potato growing areas; and
(ix)  maximum of 10 km from a high voltage electric grid
supply.
(b)  Cold stores construction and appertinent facilities are in
accordance with national standards and designs approved by
NCDC in consultation with IDA and not in conflict with
existing construction codes.
(c)  Construction works supervision and inspection arrangements
should include employment of qualified civil engineers.
(d)  Certification arrangements for progressive contract pay-
ments to be in accordance with instructions issued by NCDC
agreed with IDA.
(e)  Construction and installation works to be carried out by
engineering contractors and equipment procurement to be
let on local competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
procurement guidelines and local procedures acceptable to
IDA.



-92-
ANNEX 3
Page 12
4.   Financial and Viability Criteria:
(a) Data furnished by borrowers to be adequate to establish the
need for new/additional cold storage and probability of full
utilization of proposed capacity.
(b) Financial benefits accruing to the borrowing cooperatives
from potato storage of rental and marketing should offer a
minimum 10% average return (or other rate as may be agreed
between NCDC and IDA) on investment calculated before deduct-
ing any portion of such benefits passed on to their members.
(c) The financial plan in the subproject preparation report to
include arrangements for working capital requirements satis-
factory to NCDC.
(d) Cash flow projections to permit completion of loan repayment
within 15 years, including the grace period.
5.        Appraisals by SCB/SLDB, NCDC and IDA:
(a) All subprojects to be appraised by SCB/SLDB and subject to
NCDC's full appraisal and approval. IDA will review a selected
number of subprojects during follow-up visits.
(b) Subproject monitoring arrangements to include furnishing of
requested information to and periodical physical supervision
by SCB concerned, NCDC and IDA.



-93-
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Evaluation and Monitoring
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
General
1.        The physical components of the project are based on standard designs
which have already been adopted by most of the implementating agencies.  How-
ever, the large number of units to be constructed, as well as the multifarious
activities undertaken by the cooperatives supported under the project, will
require well-organized monitoring and evaluation procedures.  Also, great
hopes are placed on project replicability not only in the construction and
operation of godowns and cold storage in other States, but also in other
types of investment in the cooperative sector. The necessary monitoring and
evaluation arrangements, which will be discussed during credit negotiations,
are described in this Annex.
2.        NCDC would have the overall responsibility for project monitoring
and evaluation. Monitoring would be mainly the task of the Storage Division.
For its evaluation functions, NCDC has formed a Project Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit (M&E unit). It will be headed by an economist and supported by
a statistician and a cooperative specialist who will follow up project imple-
mentation, identify problem areas and deviations from appraisal estimates,
assess effectiveness of the participating institutions, and measure subproject
impact on the participating cooperatives, their members, and the farming
community served by the cooperatives. The Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit is independent of all other departments of NCDC and works in close
collaboration with its Management Audit Department. It reports directly to
the Managing Director.
3.        At the State level, monitoring and providing assistance for eval-
uation would be the responsibility of the SCB/SLDB. They would copy their
reBports to Project Coordinating Committees, headed by the Agricultural Coop-
erative Production Commissioners and including Cooperative Registrars, who
would follow up and supervise implementation in the States.
4.        The NCDC's Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would also be
re!sponsible for preparation of the Project Completion Report. Objectives
arLd key performance indicators relating to project monitoring and evaluation
are tabulated in Attachment 1.



-94-
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Monitoring Requirements
5.        The items to be monitored under the project are derived from the
needs of management at each supervisory level--district, State and national.
6.        District level (based on PACS and PCS data):
(quarterly reporting, see paragraph 19)
-    number of godown or cold store loan applications
delivered to SCB during the quarter and cumulatively;
-    number of constructions started during the quarter
and cumulatively;
-    number of constructions completed during the quarter
and year, from the start of the project, including
percentage of the targets achieved;
-    total amount granted and disbursed for godowns and
cold stores; and
-    amount of loans outstanding and repaid by cooperative
societies during the quarter and since the start of
the scheme.
7.        State level
(a) Summaries of district monitoring reports;
(b) Federation's construction of stores, including:
-    number of loan applications delivered to SCB/SLDB;
-    number of godown constructions started;
-    number of units completed;
-    total amount granted and disbursed; and
-    amount of storage and cold store loans outstanding
and their repayment (under the project).
(c) SCB/SLDB reports, including:
-    number and amount of godown and cold store loans granted
and withdrawn;
-    number of subprojects being appraised for Federation and
cooperative societies' godowns and cold stores;



-95-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
amount of funds received from NCDC and repaid;
number and type of staff employed for godown and cold
store subprojects;
organizational changes (in relation to RBI guidelines
and consultants' recommendations); and
-    status of development of procedural guidelines for
long-term lending and staff training.
8.        National Level (NCDC) Monitoring and Reporting
The NCDC quarterly monitoring reports would contain:
-    information about project related organizational changes
and staffing;
-    information about new accounting and management informa-
tion systems;
-    a set of SCB/SLDB quarterly monitoring reports;
-    actions taken as regards purchase and distribution of
vehicles and engineering equipment for the project
work; and
-    disbursement receipts of IDA funds.
Evaluation Requirements
9.        The number of subprojects will be large and will give rise to
several classes of beneficiaries (Federations, RCMS and Primary Cooperatives
as benefitting organizational units, and individual cooperative farmers as
ultimate beneficiaries). The practical way to assess the project impact on
the godown beneficiaries is through a sampling technique. At the District
le!vel, a sufficient number of sample cooperatives will be obtained by taking
every 20th cooperative on the basis of loan application receipts in each
District (e.g., 1st, 21st, 41st, etc.) and collecting from them and their
members annually the information indicated below. In the case of cold stores,
at: least every fourth unit would need to be surveyed in order to have a
sufficient number in the sample. The same "observation units" would be
followed up from year to year from the start of the project, primarily so
as to provide a sufficiently reliable basis for comparison between different
years. Evaluation surveys, which are annual exercises starting about 1-2
ye!ars after completion of the godown or cold store, should not be confused
with the continuous follow-up, supervision and proumotion work which the RCS
st:aff and SCB/DCCB staffs do for every society.
10.       Results from the sample reports would be summarized at the NCDC.
The few data to be gathered on the impact and development of Federations
would be collected on each Federation separately.



-96-
ANNEX 4
Page  4
11.       Evaluation Information from PACS and PCS.  The aim of the evalua-
tion at the local (village) level is to study whether the impact of the sub-
projects (new godowns and cold stores) is as intended at the time a decision
to strengthen the cooperatives was made.  In particular, the annual survey
should reflect whether:
-    cooperative services are provided and the members use them
as planned;
-    the cooperative is able to attract new members and become a
significant center of services in the field of its services
for its community and, in accordance with its principles,
include also the poor farmers;
-    the services are provided at a cost which is reasonable and
competitive in the circumstances; and
-    the cooperative operations are managed prudently and result
in long-term strengthening of the cooperative society.
12.       Evaluation Information from Federations.  The benefit to the Fed-
erations and the profitability of the services they are able to provide to
their member cooperatives with help of the project can be measured in part
by observing their turnover and other statistics. Information about coopera-
tive turnover of farm produce, farm input and the market share are already
regularly gathered by the Federations. The new warehouses and cold stores
will increase their business facilities and the Project's contribution will
be assessed indirectly through the Federation's profitability and service
cost calculations. The quality of the operations can be observed by survey-
ing the timeliness of deliveries and collections and the staff training.
Federations are expected to undertake self-evaluation in this respect, and
in addition, the experience of RCS, with his staff's overall knowledge of
the field, will be surveyed by NCDC's Zonal/Regional Offices or Head Office
M&E Unit.
13.       SCB/SLDB Evaluation Reports.  The annual reports and accounts to
be submitted to NCDC give much of the evaluation information needed. In
addition, some specific data on efficiency will be desirable for the ongoing
and ex-post evaluations. These concern:
-    cost of banking services;
-    expansion of activities, to indicate the importance of SCB
in its State; and
-    strengthening of the financial and staffing aspects of the
institution.
14.       NCDC's Evaluation Reporting.  NCDC's Zonal/Regional Office will
collect the other evaluation reports in the project States. They may need
to amend them with comments before delivery to NCDC's Project Monitoring



-97-
ANNEX 4
Page 5
and Evaluation Unit. An annex to be attached should include RCS's survey on
the timeliness and sufficiency of the Federation's and societies' services.
15.       The Project Monitoring and Evaluation unit, besides assisting the
others concerned to establish the "base line studies", will summarize, analyze
and comment on the evaluation forms and reports received from the States.
In addition, it will survey and present annually in report form to the man-
agement (besides the regular verbal reporting):
-    any modifications from the original plans---nature, reasons,
effects;
-    current problems and potential problem areas;
-    variations of important assumptions made in the appraisal
report; and
-    summaries of any special evaluation surveys carried out
for studying specific aspects and impacts of the project
or participating cooperative institutions.
16.       One copy of each report, including a copy of all field evaluation
reports and statistics, would be submitted to IDA. NCDC would also provide
IDA's comments annually to the respective States.
The Data Generation System
17.       Information Flow.  The detailed information required to answer the
evaluation questions can be obtained from drafts of the annual report and
accounts which every cooperative shall submit to RCS. As this report and
final accounts may take several months to finalize, separate "evaluation
forms" need to be filled in for the observation societies, Federations, and
State Cooperative Banks.
18.       Monitoring information is not as readily available as evaluation
information in the existing reporting systems of cooperatives. Separate
collection of monitoring information starts from the district level, where
SCB/SLDB's development officers prepare district level reports and send them
quarterly to the SCB/SLDB for summarizing on a State-basis. The Federations
also prepare separate monitoring reports and submit them to the banks. The
summary society report, Federation's report and SCB/SLDB's own report are then
submitted through the NCDC's Zonal/Regional Office to NCDC's Project Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Unit. The evaluation reports follow the same procedure.
NCDC will submit copies of the summarized reports and special studies to the
IDA for information.
Internal Reporting
19.       The monitoring and evaluation reports, although using some of the
same information as the regular reports which the project units provide to
their boards and RCS, do not interfere with them. This "internal reporting"



-98-
ANNEX 4
Page 6
would continue as in the past, but more copies of the reports will be neces-
sary in some cases. The following table summarizes the normal reporting
requirements and distribution of extra copies:
For the
Godown and Cold
Reporting Unit              Report                  To Whom        Storage Projects
Primary Cooperative   Annual Statistics and        RCS;             Copy to SCB Dev.
Society                Report; Annual Accounts   Annual General  Officer from
Meeting          the "observation
societies"
Cooperative            Annual Statistics and       RCS;             Copies to
Federation             Report; Annual Accounts;  General Body    NCDC's Regional
Turnover Statistics        of Members;      Office
Dept. of
Agriculture
State Cooperative      Annual Statistics           RBI; RCS;        Copies to NCDC's
Bank/State Land        and Report; Annual          General Body    Regional Office,
Development Bank       Accounts                                     to be delivered
to Monitoring
Unit of NCDC
Monthly Statistics         RBI
on Banking Activities
NCDC                   Annual Statistics and       GOI; RBI;        Copy to IDA
Report; Audit Report       General Council
Special Studies and Surveys
20.       The evaluation and monitoring forms should be designed so that they
can be filled in by using information from the existing reporting and statis-
tics collection system. There are, however, several topics not addressed
under regular evaluation practices. One of these is the effect that the godown
subprojects may have on use of farm inputs in the subproject areas. Another
is the standard of living of poor people. Does improvement of the coopera-
tive effect this, or does it help mainly the better-off farmers?  In addition,
do the Federation and RCMSs provide the services in the form and at the time
needed by local level cooperatives? Although knowledgeable opinions (e.g.,
by RCS) may give indication on these aspects, special surveys may be required
for obtaining reliable information. In addition, the problem societies dis-
closed by the monitoring would require special familiarization and visits
in older to make redirection of their development possible.
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
21.       It would be agreed at the negotiations that the SCB/SLDB and NCDC
will send annual work plans and budgets to the IDA two months before the



-99-
ANNEX 4
Page 7
commencement of the financial year. As this will not coincide with other
monitoring reporting, separate dispatches would be necessary. SCBs would
send their plans and accounts to NCDC's M&E unit, which would deliver a
compiled set to the IDA.
Monitoring and Evaluation Organization
22.       New Units and Staff.  The only specialized unit required for the
project would be the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of NCDC, which has
also the task of monitoring other NCDC projects besides the NCDC/World Bank
projects. Other staff, some of which would be newly employed for implementa-
tion of the project, would also have monitoring and evaluation tasks as their
part-time duties. The persons involved would be NCDC's Storage Director and
Project Officers in the head office and Zonal/Regional offices and SCB/SLDB
Development Officers. In addition, the SCB/SLDB Director in charge of the NCDC/
World Bank program would participate in the monitoring and evaluation process,
with the help of the accountants and clerks employed for the purposes of the
project. The following table summarizes the monitoring and evaluation require-
ments, including the responsible persons and submission timings.
Responsible               Timing
Reports                   Person/Body            For Submission    Received by
Monitoring Reports
District-wise Society    SCB/SLDB Field           End of Quarter         SCB/SLDB
Reports                   Development Officer       + 3 days
Federation Report         Federation's Storage   End of Quarter          SCB/SLDB
Manager/Director          + 3 days
SCB/SLDB Report,          SCB/SLDB Manager/       End of Quarter         NCDC's
including summary of      Director i/c of           + 10 days            Zonal/
District Reports and      storage loans                                  Regional
a copy of Federation                                                     Office
Reiport
Comments and Explana-    Project Officer of       End of Quarter         NCDC's
tions by NCDC Zonal/      the Zonal/Regional         + 15 days           M&E Unit
Regional Office (to       Office
be appended to SCB
Report)
NCDC's Report,            Head of Project         End of Quarter         NCDC's
including copies of       Monitoring and            + 30 days            Management
SCB/SLDB Report           Evaluation Unit/                               (Copy to
NCDC                                          IDA)



-100-
ANNEX 4
Page 8
Responsible               Timing
Reports                   Person/Body            For Submission    Received by
Evaluation Reports
Society Reports from      Society Manager,        End of FY              SCB's
"Observation Societies"  supervised by               + 15 days
Assistant RCS;
Reports to be
collected by SCB/SLDB
Field Development
Officers
Federation Reports        Federation Storage      End of FY              NCDC'S
Manager/Director          + 15 days           Zonal/
Regional
Office
RCS's assessment on       RCS                      End of FY             NCDC's
timeliness and suffi-                                + 15 days           Zonal/
ciency of Federation's                                                   Regional
services                                                                 Office
SCB/SLDB Report,          Project Officer         End of FY              NCDC's
with copies of            of NCDC's Zonal/           + 30 days           Zonal/
Federation Evalua-        Regional Officers                              Regional
tion Reports                                                             Office
NCDC's Evaluation         Head of NCDC'S          End of FY              NCDC's
Report, with Summary      M&E Unit                   + 45 days           Management
of Society reports and                                                   (Copies
copies of other                                                          to the
Evaluation Reports                                                       IDA)
Special Impact            Head of NCDC's          Upon receipt          NCDC's
Studies and Ad-hoc        M&E Unit (as                                  Manage-
surveys                   initiator)                                    ment
(Copies
to the
IDA)



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
Responsible Body for
Component              Major Objectives                 Key Indicators                          Monitoring/Reporting
Institution Building   Develop NCDC into a more         -completion of organizational           NCDC's Project Evaluation Unit
of NCDC                 effective development            restructuring along the lines          with help of Organization and
finance institution for the      of NDI-study and recommendations    Methods Unit.
cooperative movement and as      of IDA
an expanded channel for Bank   -implementation of improved account-                   "
Group funds                      ing and management information
systems
-preparation of procedure manuals
for godowns and cold stores
-purchase and use of about             NCDC/s Project Evaluation Unit        
sets of engineering and measuring   with help of Marketing and
equipment as in Annex 1,              Storage Division and Engineering
Table 14.8                            Section
-purchase and use of the vehicles
as in Annex  1, Table 14.7
-disbursement by IDA and utiliza-
tion by NCDC (through GOI) or
US$125 M IDA credit for godown
and cold storage lending as
indicated in Annex 1, Table 14.
Institution Building   Build up the long-term           -establishment of engineering           At the coordination level, in
of State Cooperative   financing capability of the       cells each with 1-2 executive          all Project evaluation aspects:
Banks                   SCB  in project States for       engineers, 2-11 assistant engi-        Project Coordinating Committees
storage and other similar        neers and 4-45  junior engineers    At the operation level: SCB's
development projects             (Annex  1, Table 15)                   Project Officer
-employment of Project promotion
staff each with 1-2 senior                                          >
development officers and 8-16                                       p 
junior development officers                                         oX



Responsible Body for
Component               Major Objectives                Key Indicators                         Monitoring/Reporting
(Annex 1, Table 15 )
-effecting organizational improve-                  "
ments as recommended by RBI and GOS
-implementing new training and
procedures for processing of
project loans and loan administra-
tion to be developed by NCDC and
the consultants
-efficiency of the operations in    SCB's accounts and statistics
terms of                             units
(a) interest rates
(b) interest margins
(c) debt collection and over-
dues
(d) credit expansion
(e) savings mobilization
(f)  increase in loans by type
(g)  development of own capital
(h)  number of staff and caliber
(i) loan numbers and amounts
-statistics on construction costs   SCB's Project Officers
of different sizes of godowns
Activity Expansion by  Expand building space and        -construction of godowns and cold   SCB's Project Officer on the
Federations and RCMS   business activities of            stores as in Annex 1,                basis of reports from the
respective SCMFs and RCMSs       Tables 14.1 - 14.2                   Federation and RCMS
in order to facilitate their  -statistics on cooperative turn-    RCS and SCB's Project Officer
full and profitable servic-      ovrffampduendam
= . ~over of farm produce and farm
ing of the needs of Primary    inputs  in the project States,
Cooperative Societies            and the market share of these
institutions
-quality to be measured by the        RCS, according to a system to
statistics on timely deliveries/   be developed in collaboration
collections and percentage of        with the SCB's Project Officer.
staff trained in relevant
courses.
p2~
IT 4



Responsible Body for
Component            Major Objectives                   Key Indicators                       Monitoring/Reporting
-Annuai profitability calcula-       SCB's Project Officer with the
tions of the godowns and cold       help of the Federation and RCMS
stores and total business
activities, and comparisons with
relevant competitors (net profit/
ton; service fees in percent of
commodity prices)
Activity Expansion   In order to facilitate full        -construction of godowns and cold  SCB's Project Officer on the
of PACS and Potato   and profitable servicing of         stores as in Annex 1,  Tables        basis of reports from Junior
Cold Stores          farmer members expansion of         Tables 14.1 - 14.2                   Development Officers in the
the office-cum-storage                                                  field
premises of 1,350 PACS  in         -statistics on each PACS turn-       RCS
Maharashtra, 1,550 in Punjab,       over and number/amounts of
3,000 in Andhra Pradesh and            rer   and   deposits
1,100 in Himachal Pradesh,          -  credit and deposits
and construction of 69 cold         -  farm input sales
stores in Uttar Pradesh, 22        -  crop agency
in West Bengal, 17 in Bihar,        -  consumer goods
8 in Punjab, 4 in Madhya          -statistics of potato turnover        RCS                                   F
Pradesh and 7 in Haryana            and other services of the cold
stores
-membership statistics (and          RCS
comparison with total popula-
tion of the respective villages)
-employm-ent statistics              RCS
-annual profitability calcula-       RCS
tions of the societies/units
and their different activities
-efficiency of operations in         RCS
terms of
(a) interest rates
(b) credit/applications
(c)  repayment statistics                                         >
(d)  service fee (margin in                                       CT
fertilizer sales
(e)  service fee (margin) in                                        4 
crop or potato agency
(f)  service fee (margin) in                                      >
consumer goods by basic
articles



-104-                           ANNEX 5
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Documents and Data available in Supplementary
Data Volume and Project File
(A) Supplementary Data Volume 1/
1. Agricultural Cooperative Organizations in India
2. National Cooperative Development Corporation
3. Cooperative Banks in the Project States
4. Cooperative Marketing Federations in the Project States
5. Cooperative Marketing and Storage of Farm Inputs and
Agricultural Produce
6. Model Bylaws of PACS and Federations
7. Cooperative Cold Storing and Marketing of Potatoes
8. Onion Storage
9. National Cooperative Godown Program
10. Implementation of NCDC Godown Program
11. Credit and Consumer Goods Supplied by PACS
12. Training and Manpower for NCDC II Project
13. Technical Papers Related to the Godown Component
14. Technical Papers Related to Cold Storage Component
15. Support Material for Project Cost Calculations and Financial and
Economic Analyses
16. Draft TOR for Technical Assistance Consultants
17.  Taxati6n with respect to Cooperative Societies
(B) Project File
1. Annual Reports and Data of NCDC 1977-79
2. Annual Reports, By-Laws and Data of State Cooperative Banks in the
Project States l977-79
3.  Annual Reports By-Laws and Data of State Marketing Federations in the
Project States 1977-79
4.  Annual Reports 1977-79 and Curricula of Main Courses of
the Cooperative Training Institutions
5. Policy Statements on Cooperatives and Project Sectors
by GOI and Project States
6.  Lending Procedures of NCDC and SCB.
7. Tender Specifications for a Refrigeration Plant (by NCDC)
8. Reports and Data on NCUI and Consumer Movement
9. Potato in India (NAFED Commodity Bulletin)
10. Growing, Storage and use of Potato
11. Onion in India (NAFED Commodity Bulletin)
1/ Available on request from Agricultural Division D, South Asia
Proj ects Department.



IBRD 15430
US S. R     _                S. S. R                                                                                   E                                     JANUARY 1981
INDIA
NATIONAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC   l                                      *-'~/ "
OF              -                                                                                  |          NCDCIGODOWNPROJECTAREAS
AFGHANISTAN                                 .                        r                                         -     NCDC 3 GODON PROJECT AREAS
. 1     Sr-g                                                           r      NCDClICOLDSTORAGEPROJECTAREAS
.  JAMMU and KASHMIR1                                                           STATEASDUNIONTERRITORYCAPITALS
I -                                                                       eD    NAT ONAL CAP TAL
_ '-   t  '-~  '1  STATE ANSl UNION TERRITORY BOUNDAR ES
'  e;!M. .A,.H@lA                                                    U NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
stt: ' . PRADE'SH                                                                                              II.      .. -T     280      300      4
, . 1 - -s :- -:::::: Z ~~~...   .......                         OX/
gv'PUNJAB 5,,.,-7 -                                                                 100     200 3000            400
tb.                                        0'   JY 9            :            f'     -D                                          AO   2D0  3D0   4.D    y
PAKI STAN N.                                                                                                                     lometeri
g t.-/                                      DELHI                        i                                      P v1 z < BHU TAN C.
UTTA         ADSH                                     SIKy00ao 
t S ~ ~ ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                                                        -                                AG- ASAM ANDa
RAJASTHAN
.7/                                                                         Kf? MBANGLADESH :'  rUb
EST\4,         TRIPURA(     MZOA
\< i l S _qX _ - ' / ;40 g C ~~~~~~~ : B U R M A
-20                                                                                                                                                      -':''''  ,'"..............'"        '........  ''"' ........0  .'   .   ............1  200
-:..- . .-...........  .   .   -.-:-  .. . ....... ,S
B EB t@ ~~~~~~~~~~....                    '        :       R I  - -
i'.'  '''''',,,,'          '.. ''"'>''"X................   .   .
Arabiani Se               '    "'H               .eH9utD        
1.:.:::::-::1----:::.........:::.::-'.---:  , 
\ j:: . - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANDHA2t z,
...     NTAAS: ....:.....:
.......,,,... .
) TAMIL NADU ~~~~~~Bay   of   Bengal                                                             NICOBAR 1
_;o t       \  %                  /                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISLANDS
U~'$oo tc tOolvP -otPh' i 
odPo,O 1t .   mt UcO 0000.. of                     .  .
70.                                                             0ueasw.avesvvAhn httnt .
70c~~~~~~~~~~~......... .9                                                                                                   913 ._ ...



