OFFICIAL       CREDIT NUMBER 1146 IN
DOCUMTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second NCDC Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       7     l (          , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1146 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      J7     cf              , 1981, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by National Cooperative
Development Corporation (hereinafter called NCDC) with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to NCDC the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
NCDC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept- all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NCDC of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿- 2 -
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Financial Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and NCDC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and West
Bengal" mean respectively the following States of India: the State
of Andhra Pradesh, the State of Bihar, the State of Haryana, the
State of Himachal Pradesh, the State of Madhya Pradesh, the State
of Maharashtra, the State of Punjab, the State of Uttar Pradesh
and the State of West Bengal, or any successor thereof;
(d) "SCMFs" means the Andhra Pradesh State Cooperative
Marketing Federation, the Bihar State Cooperative Marketing Union,
the Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation,
the Himachal State Cooperative Marketing Federation, the Madhya
Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing Federation, the Maharashtra
State Cooperative Marketing Federation, Punjab Cooperative Supply
and Marketing Federation, the Uttar Pradesh Cooperative Marketing
Federation and the West Bengal State Cooperative Marketing
Federation;
(e) "Cooperative" means a primary cooperative society, SCMFs
and, if applicable, a regional cooperative marketing society
established according to the relevant laws of Andhra Pradesh,
Bihar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal;
(f) "Participating Cooperative" means a Cooperative in
receipt of a Sub-loan which is financed or refinanced by a
NCDC-loan;
(g) "SCB" means a state cooperative bank and "SLDB" means a
state cooperative land development bank, respectively established
according to the relevant laws of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar
Pradesh or West Bengal;
(h) "Participating Bank" means any SCB or SLDB which is
allowed, in accordance with Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement,
to make Sub-loans;


﻿- 3 -
(i) "NCDC-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by NCDC to a Participating Bank for the purpose of refinancing
Sub-loans made by the Participating Bank to Cooperatives for
Sub-projects, out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to NCDC by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 of this
Agreement;
(j) "Sub-loan" means a sub-loan made or proposed to be made
by a Participating Bank out of the proceeds of the Credit to a
Cooperative for a Sub-project; it being understood that the
sub-loans in Bihar are made or proposed to be made by NCDC to
Bihar State Cooperative Marketing Union;
(k) "Sub-project" means a specific project to be carried
out by a Cooperative utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan; and
(1) "Recovery Rate" means the ratio (expressed in terms of a
percentage) between (A) the aggregate amount of principal and
interest on loans paid during any fiscal year pursuant to obliga-
tions that fell due during or before such year, and (B) the
aggregate amount of principal and interest on loans that became
due and payable during or before such year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one hundred one million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 101,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, civil works and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by


﻿the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the CredJ:
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in e9ch year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February
1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1991, and ending February 1,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause NCDC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Financial
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable NCDC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
NCDC under a financial agreement to be entered into between the


﻿-5-
Borrower and NCDC with terms and conditions which are satisfactory
to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Financial Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Financial Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The National Cooperative Development Corporation Act,
No. 26 of 1962, as amended to the date of this Agreement, shall
have been further amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as, in the judgment of the Association, to materially
affect the carrying out of the Project or the operations or
financial condition of NCDC;
(b) NCDC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of NCDC under the Project Agreement or under
the Financial Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that NCDC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or under the Financial
Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NCDC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) NCDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by NCDC or by others whereby any of the property of NCDC shall or
may be distributed among its creditors.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-6-
(a) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and NCDC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (d) and
(e) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of NCDC have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate action; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the Financial Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and NCDC, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by NCDC, and is legally binding upon NCDC in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the Financial Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and NCDC and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and NCDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date     &2e 0/ /71           is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a


﻿-7-
date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01, of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi 110001
India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                v     4
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) NCDC loans                   99,400,000       85%
(2) Equipment and                   830,000       100% of foreign
vehicles                                     expenditures
and 80% of
local expen-
ditures
(3) Technical                        670,000      100%
assistance
and training
(4) Research and                    900,000       100%
development
TOTAL        101,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$4,000,000 may be made under Categories (1), (2) and (3) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after October 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to: (i) develop storage, marketing
and office facilities through financing the construction of
about 127 cold stores and about 7,900 godowns by Participating
Cooperatives in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and West
Bengal, thereby helping in meeting the service requirements
preceding and following the harvest; (ii) promote the development
and expansion of the cooperative institutions within these States;
(iii) expand the capability for cooperative Sub-project prepara-
tion and appraisal; (iv) foster research in the marketing of and
the development of storage of perishables; (v) undertake manpower
planning and training programs; and (vi) strengthen NCDC as
a development finance institution for cooperatives.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1986.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1981L.
FOR SECRETARY


