Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4060-SE 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
SOCIETE NATIONALE D’ELECTRICITE (SENELEC) 
 
Dated June 28, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4060-SE 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 28, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and 
Société Nationale d’Electricité 
(SENELEC). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Republic of Senegal  (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,500,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that SENELEC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Credit Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SENELEC, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to SENELEC for the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS SENELEC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project  
 
Section 2.01. (a) SENELEC declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, management, social, 
environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and SENELEC shall otherwise agree, SENELEC shall 
carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
SENELEC shall update, in conjunction with the Borrower, the 
Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish such update to the Association not later than 12 months after the date of the 
preceding Procurement Plan, for the Association’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. SENELEC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. SENELEC shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
SENELEC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.05. (a) SENELEC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b)  
SENELEC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SENELEC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 2.06. 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, SENELEC shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and SENELEC, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
SENELEC on said plan. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of SENELEC 
 
Section 3.01. SENELEC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. SENELEC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and technical practices. 
 
Section 3.03. SENELEC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  SENELEC shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) SENELEC 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors,  in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation
 upon SENELEC’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, SENELEC shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part A of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
Page  6
-
5
-
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Part A of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned 
implementation of Part A of the Project; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project, 
as at the end of  the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Part B of the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03.  Unless the Association agrees otherwise, SENELEC shall: 
 
(a) 
for each year during Project implementation, starting in 2006, maintain a 
value for its debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.1; 
 
(b) 
attain a value for return on assets ratio of not less than 3% for 2006 and 
2007 and at least 5% for 2008;  
 
(c) 
maintain its net accounts receivable at less than: (i) 105 days of sales at 
end of year 2006, and (ii) 90 days of sales at end of year 2007 and at the end of year 
2008. 
 
(d) 
for each year of Project implementation, maintain a financial leverage 
ratio of no more than 65%;   
(e) 
communicate annually to the Association its investment program, 
financing plan and business plan as approved by its Board of Directors. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SENELEC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify SENELEC of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For SENELEC : 
 
Société Nationale d’Electricité 
 
28,
rue Vincens, PO Box 93 
 
Dakar, Senegal 
 
Facsimile 
 
(221) 823-1267 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SENELEC may 
be taken or executed by its Director General or such other person or persons as the 
Director General shall designate in writing, and SENELEC shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
     /s/ 
Gobind 
T. 
Nankani 
Authorized Representative 
 
SOCIÉTÉ NATIONALE D’ELECTRICITÉ  
 
By 
     /s/ 
Samuel 
Sarr 
Authorized Representative 
 
