Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB496 
Project Name 
SN-ELECTRICITY EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General energy sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P073477 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of SENEGAL 
Implementing Agency 
Senelec, Petrosen 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ]  
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
Date PID Prepared 
February 24, 2004 (update) 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 1, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 24, 2004 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1.1 CAS  
 
A
new CAS was presented for Senegal and approved by Bank Board on April 17, 2003.  A major 
objective of the CAS is to expand the supply of infrastructure services,  to lower service costs 
and to promote private sector development. The proposed IDA program  of about US$100  
million (Two-phase APL) for FY04 has been included in the base case scenario of the CAS. 
 
1.2 Electricity Sector Issues and Government Strategy 
 
Electricity services in Senegal are currently provided by SENELEC, a public sector company 
covering the whole country. Starting in 2004, the provision of electricity services will be 
provided by SENELEC for the urban areas and by the Rural Electrification Agency (ASER) for 
the rural areas.  The Bank is currently supporting Senegal in these two areas. 
SENELEC faces three major issues : (i) The quality of service is relatively poor because its 
electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities are in relatively poor condition due 
to age (about 30% of its production facilities are more than 25 years old), lack of maintenance 
and renewal; (ii) the cost of generation is very high in part due to an inadequate mix of 
generation unit
s; and (iii) SENELEC’s facilities cannot meet the rapidly growing demand for 
power, growing annually by 25-30 MW. As a result power outages and load shedding are fairly 
common, quality of services is inadequate, losses are high and the needs of the economy and the 
population are not met.  This coupled with weak commercial performance has led also to a weak 
financial and technical performance for SENELEC. These problems, if not addressed urgently, 
could lead to significant economic and social costs.   
 
Page  2
The G
overnment’s strategy for the energy sector is outlined in a Letter of Sector Development 
Policy adopted by the Government in April 2003. It outlines the progress, and in some instances 
the lack of it, since the last Letter was adopted in January 1997, some six years ago. In the power 
sector, and starting in 1997, reforms were initiated aimed at introducing private sector 
participation in investments and management, encouraging higher efficiency and ensuring 
adequate supply.  The Government of Senegal (GOS) had complied well and opportunely with 
its power sector reform program as stated in the Policy Letter.   
There were two serious attempts  at “privatizing” SENELEC  over a three year period but both 
failed. Relatively little new investment were made in the sector during that period while the 
demand for electricity  increased substantially which, added to the poor reliability of the 
generation equipment, resulted in capacity shortages and brown outs. Public outcry due to poor 
service and continuous energy shortages, black outs and brown outs increased.   
Reflecting on the two failed privatization experiences GOS has concluded that: (i) the financing 
of the electricity sector investment program will require a combination of private and public 
sector financing and that private sector should be mostly relied on for financing  power 
generation, through IPPs; (ii) the concept of a private concession for SENELEC should be 
adopted while recognizing that public financing will still be required to a significant degree; (iii) 
the Strategic Partner should have a majority of the shareholding, but not required to make a 
substantial financial commitment at the outset; and hence (iv) the Donor Community would 
continue to finance a substantial share of the investment plan, at least for the next five years. 
On this basis, GOS has prepared a ten year investment plan (2004-2013). In a  first phase (2004-
2006), critical investments should be made in new generation and rehabilitation of generation 
and of the transmission and distribution networks to ward off further technical and financial 
deterioration of the sector. These investments should have been made some years ago, but were 
neglected because efforts and attention were focused on  privatization of SENELEC. In a second 
phase (2007-2009), investments should be made to expand access and improve the commercial 
and technical efficiency of the sector and increase access. 
 
1.3 Lessons learned  
Lessons from the Senegalese experience as well as from recent international developments in the 
energy sector have been incorporated in project design. The main lessons are as follows: 
·
Privatization is a complex and long process involving public and political support.  The main 
reason why the privatization of SENELEC failed appears to be a lack of a clear agreement within 
the GOS and with the external partners regarding the main objectives and features of the 
privatization and inadequate managerial autonomy granted to the strategic partner.   
 
·
The privatization of a power utility should not be the end of the Bank’s role; a continued 
involvement to ensure sustainability is needed.  In projects with high reform content, Bank 
continuous support to the sector objectives as well as continuous and frank policy dialogue with 
the Government are of paramount importance to achieve results.  The provision of financing to 
address the investment needs of the electricity sector should have been secured. 
Page  3
·
Public/private partnership is essential to finance the investment program and leverage private 
financing. This partnership should be flexible, combining financing instruments (guarantees, 
direct financing, etc.) and institutions. 
 
·
Obligations to invest must be clearly stated in the concession contract and funding must be 
secured up-front to achieve the predefined improvements in quality of service, access and costs 
reductions. 
 
1.4 Indications of borrower commitment and ownership  
 
The political and economic implications of this proposed operation are considerable as the 
proposed program is a key ingredient for the economic and social development of SENEGAL. 
Hence, the Government's commitment to and sense of ownership of the project and Senelec’s 
commitment for the technical, financial, and managerial rehabilitation and development of the 
electricity sector are very high.  
 
1.5 Value added of Bank support in this project
 
The proposed program allows the Bank Group (World Bank and IFC) to strengthen a 
constructive dialogue with the GOS, started initially under the Energy Sector Adjustment 
Operation.  The value added of Bank assistance is substantial as it should: (i) provide private 
sector investors and operators needed comfort; (ii) help  strengthen the supply of electricity at a 
critical time, when the economy has again begun to expand;  (iii) result in a reduction in the cost 
of electricity services; and (iv) set the stage for a technical, reliable, and financially sustainable 
electricity sector (also critical to the development of rural electrification). 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The main development objective of this two-phase APL is to support the delivery of quality 
electricity services at the lowest cost possible within the SENELEC perimeter and also to the 
rural concessions (a separate program is also prepared to develop electricity services in rural 
areas), and to promote increased private sector participation in SENEGAL’s electricity sector. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed program directly supports the CAS objective of expanding infrastructure services 
through the implementation of SENELEC’s investment program. It provides IDA financial 
resources  and Bank’s support to SENEGAL to: (i) leverage private sector financing in new 
power production facilities (IPPs); (ii) select in a transparent manner a strategic partner for 
SENELEC granted with full decision-making authority; (iii) rehabilitate and expand some of the 
existing generating units on the interconnected system and some isolated centers; (iv) rehabilitate 
and expand SENELEC transmission and distribution networks; and (v) promote private sector 
investments in the hydrocarbon sector in order to reduce input costs to the electricity sector.
 
Overall program costs are currently estimated to be $250-260 million.
 
The proposed World Bank program would be implemented in two phases as an APL. During 
the 
first phase (mid-CY2004 to end CY2006)
 IDA would support: (i) the commissioning of a 60 MW 
Page  4
net IPP (IDA partial risk guarantee); (ii) the hiring of qualified advisors to assist SENEGAL in 
the selection of a strategic partner for SENELEC (IDA credit); (iii) the implementation of 
essential rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution systems and possibly of some 
generating units (IDA credit); (iv) the promotion of SENEGAL’s hydrocarbon potential to 
private investors (IDA credit); (v) capacity building, studies required to implement Phase II and 
monitoring of project implementation (IDA credit); and (vi) refinancing of the PPFs (IDA 
credit). IDA resources requirements for this first phase are estimated at about $50 million. 
The  
second phase (early 2007-end 2009)
 would be effective once the strategic partner confirms the 
priorities of the investment program and other agreements with SENEGAL are reached. For this 
second phase, IDA would support: (a) the commissioning of a new IPP of about 100 MW net 
(PRG Guarantee); (b) the “new SENELEC” in mobilizing commercial financing (PRG 
Guarantee); (c) the rehabilitation and extension of the generation, transmission and distribution 
facilities (IDA credit); (d) capacity building, studies, etc. required to support the continuous 
development of Senegal’s electricity sector (IDA credit). IDA resources requirements for this 
second phase are estimated to be about $50 million. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Two Bank environmental and social safeguards policies (Environmental Assessment and 
Involuntary Resettlement) may be trigerred by the proposed program. Environmental 
assessments and environmental management and resettlement policy frameworks have been 
prepared and reviewed. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 20 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
      100 
OTHERS (PRIVATE and PUBLIC) 
140 
 Total 
260 
 
6. Contact point 
Michel E. Layec 
Title: Lead Energy Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3231 
Fax: (202) 473-5123 
Email: Mlayec@worldbank.org
 
