Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1192 
Project Name 
SN-Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement  Project (FY05) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General energy sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P073477 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry Of Mines and Energy; SENELEC; PETROSEN; 
Private Sector. 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ]  
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
Date PID Prepared 
October 26, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 08, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
December 14, 2004 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Country Background:
Senegal is at a decisive point in its economic development. It nears the 
end of a successful period of economic adjustment that began with the devaluation of the CFA 
Franc in 1994. It achieved a historically high rate of growth in that period, 2.5 percent annually 
in real per capita terms. Despite this recent good performance, Senegal has a significant unmet 
reform agenda. The economic growth after the devaluation had only a small impact on poverty, 
especially in rural areas. Income inequality is high. Social indicators - primary education, infant 
and maternal mortality, access to clean water - lag income indicators. The lack of infrastructure - 
water, electricity, transport - handicaps development and poverty reduction. Public policies, 
notably in the areas of taxation and incentives to invest, handicap growth by slowing down 
private sector development. A new CAS was presented and approved by the Board on April 17, 
2003. The CAS derives directly from the PRSP of Senegal. The pillars of Senegal's PRSP are: (i) 
wealth creation; (ii) capacity building and social services; (iii) assistance to vulnerable groups; 
and (iv) implementation of the PRSP strategy and monitoring of its outcomes. A major objective 
of the CAS is to expand the supply of infrastructure services, most prominently among the poor, 
to lower service costs and to promote private sector development. 
 
Energy Consumption and  Resources Base
:
Energy consumption in Senegal is dominated by 
woodfuels, which accounts for 53 percent of energy used.  The country’s hydroelectric potential, 
based on the Senegal and Gambia rivers, is estimated at 1,000 MW, which is just recently being 
tapped, with the completion of the Manantali hydroelectric project (installed capacity of 200 
MW). Fossils fuels in the form of heavy petroleum was discovered offshore at Dome Flore (100 
million tons), but its extraction may not be economical at this stage.  Small amounts of natural 
gas, however, were discovered and produced onshore near Dakar (Diam Nadio and Thies) and 
are being used to generate electricity. Further  exploration for gas and oil is underway or 
planned.  For now, however, most of Senegal’s commercial energy needs are met by imported 
Page  2
2
petroleum products which totaled 950,000 tons and cost an estimated US$250 million in 2002 
and represented between 20 to 25percent of Senegal’s export earnings. 
 
The Provision of Electricity Services
in Senegal is currently carried out by the public utility 
(SENELEC). The installed capacity of the interconnected system is 489 MW. Generation 
capacity includes 371 MW of SENELEC thermal plants, 66 MW from the regional hydroelectric 
plant of Manantali (installed capacity of 200MW) and 52 MW from an Independent Power 
Producer (GTI Dakar). The 2003 peak demand was about 300 MW. SENELEC faces two major 
hurdles : (i) Its electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities are in poor 
condition for lack of investment and maintenance  and because of age (about 30% of its 
production facilities are more than 25 years old); and (ii) its facilities cannot meet the rapidly 
growing demand for power, which is growing at a rate of 30-40 MWs a year in a cost-effective 
way. As a result, losses and operating costs are high and load shedding is a common phenomena. 
This has led to a weak financial performance of SENELEC.  
In its effort to reduce poverty and redress imbalances in development, The Government (GOS) 
has concluded that developing rural electrification (RE) is also a critical objective. Learning from 
sector issues and experiences in Senegal and from more advanced experiences in other countries, 
GOS has developed and adopted a new RE strategy and established a new institutional, legal and 
regulatory framework conducive to a successful public/private partnership. In particular, GOS 
has removed the monopoly of SENELEC for providing electricity to rural areas. To assist the 
Government in implementing this strategy, the World Bank’s Executive Directors approved in 
September 2004 an IDA credit equivalent to US$29.9 million, with co-financing from GEF 
(US$5.0) and other donors.  
 
2. The Program and the Project 
 
The Proposed Program 
consists of two phases, to be implemented over seven years (2005-
2011). 
The first phase of the program
 (2005-2007) includes the priority   investments required 
to increase electricity supply to the economy and the population while: (a) reducing the 
generation and transmission/distribution costs and improving the reliability of electricity 
services, (b) strengthening SENELEC’s financial position, (c) supporting least-cost solutions for 
generation, transmission and distribution; (d) contributing to building capacity  in the key energy 
institutions of Senegal; and (e) preparing the next phase of investments and selecting a strategic 
partner for SENELEC. Through the two proposed partial risk guarantees (PRGs) and basic data 
gathering on Senegal’s hydrocarbon potential,  this first phase supports private sector investment 
in electricity generation and in the oil and gas sector. 
The second phase of the program
 (2008-
2011) will complement the financial resources and incentives needed for private sector 
investment in power generation and distribution  and  resources needed to expand transmission 
facilities, with a focus on increasing the level and quality of electricity services and the technical 
and on improving the financial performance of the utility. 
 
The proposed project
covers the first phase of the APL. Its development objectives are to 
improve the efficiency of Senegal’s power sector and quality of the electricity services, and to 
meet increasing demand for electricity by the economy and the population. This would be 
achieved by: (i) facilitating private sector investment in new power production facilities (IPPs) 
Page  3
3
by the provision of guarantees; (ii) maintaining some critical power generation facilities, 
rehabilitating certain transmission lines and parts of SENELEC’s distribution system; (iii) 
promoting petroleum exploration and production, (iv) implementing an effective public/private 
partnership for managing and expanding SENELEC; (v) building-up the capacities in Senegal’s 
energy sector institutions; and (vi) preparing a least-cost investment program. 
 
Project Components: 
The project has two components (IFC also plans to participate in the 
financing of the Kounoune I IPP).
The first component
 
supports SENELEC’s efforts
 to 
increase the level of electricity services, reduce costs and improve quality of its services. The 
component provides resources to: 
 
·
Support Senegal’s efforts to attract private investments in new generation facilities by 
provision  of two PRGs. The IDA PRGs would guarantee commercial lenders against default in 
scheduled debt service payments of principal and interest resulting from the GOS’ failure to meet 
its payment obligations, both periodic payments and termination amounts, under the PPA and 
Government Guarantee.  Upon financial closing of the first 67.5 MW IPP tranche, SENELEC 
will engage a process for the award of the second 60-80 MW IPP tranche
;
·
Maintain the steam generating facilities at Cap-des-Biches to enable these generating 
units to provide energy and capacity until new and higher performing generating units are 
commissioned; 
·
Rehabilitate essential transmission and distribution facilities as required to increase the 
level of electricity services, reduce technical losses and improve the quality of electricity 
services;  
·
Build up SENELEC’s capacity ; and  
·
Prepare the next tranche of investments in generation, transmission and distribution 
through the development of masters plans, technical and economic feasibility studies, 
environmental impact assessments and management plans, detailed engineering, bidding 
documents, etc. 
 
The second component supports institutional strengthening and project communication 
and monitoring. 
It provides resources to:
 
·
Build-up capacity in the Ministry responsible for Energy, in the Electricity Sector 
Regulatory Commission (CRSE);  
·
Promote oil and gas exploration and build-up capacity,  in PETROSEN the public 
company mandated to promote exploration of Senegal’s hydrocarbon potential and in the 
National Hydrocarbon Commission (CNH) responsible for downstream operations; 
·
Select a strategic partner for SENELEC; and 
·
Monitor project implementation and  assess results.  
 
Financing
 The total estimated cost of the whole program (2005-2011) is US$300 million, of 
which Phase I (the proposed project) will cost about US$100 million.  It is proposed that for 
Phase I, IDA provides  about US$ 66 million, of which $20.0 million will be in the form of two 
PRGs.  The balance of the financing needs will be provided by the private sector, by other 
multilateral and bilateral lenders and by GOS and SENELEC’s own resources. 
 
Page  4
4
Implementing Agencies.  
Part A:
The implementation of the new power generation units (IPPs) 
will be the responsibility of private sector investors. SENELEC will be responsible for overall 
coordination of the implementation of these IPPs and for the implementation of the remaining 
activities included in this component. Part B: 
The Ministry of Mines and Energy will coordinate 
the implementation of the activities of component B, including those carried out by PETROSEN.  
 
Implementation Period :
 Implementation of the proposed project (Phase I of the APL) is 
expected to last 3 years (2005-2007). 
 
3. Contact point 
Contact: Michel E. Layec 
Title: Lead Energy Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3231 
Fax: (202) 473-5123 
Email: Mlayec@worldbank.org 
 
4. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: 
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
