                                 Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR00001832



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-40600)



                                     ON A

                                 CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.5 MILLION
                     (US$ 15.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                 FOR AN


       ELECTRICITY SECTOR EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
                          PHASE 1, APL-1



                              October 3, 2011



Energy Group
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          Currency Unit = FCFA
                            FCFA505 = US$1
                         US$ 1.29265 = EURO 1.00
                           US$1.50803 = SDR 1

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 - December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB      African Development Bank
AFD       Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
ASER      Agence Sénégalaise d 'Electrification Rurale (Rural Electrification
          Agency of Senegal)
BOAD      Banque Ouest Africaine de Développement (West African Development
          Bank)
BOO       Build, Own, Operate
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
BOT       Build, Operate, Transfer
CFAA      Country Financial Assessment
CNH       Comité National des Hydrocarbures (National Hydrocarbon Committee)
CO2       Carbon Dioxyde
COD       Commercial Operations Date
CPRSE     Cellule de Préparation des Réformes du Secteur de l'Energie (Unit for the
          Preparation of Energy Sector Reforms)
CQ        Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
CRSE      Commission de Régulation du Secteur de 1'Electricité (Electricity
          Regulatory Commission)
DDI       Direction de la Dette et de 1'Investissement (Debt and Investment
          Directorate of the Ministry of Finance)
DE        Direction de l 'Energie (Energy Directorate)
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
EPC       Engineer, Procure and Construct
EURIBOR   Euro Interbank Offered Rate
FMA       Financial Management Assessment
FSA       Fuel Supply Agreement
GEF       Global Environment Fund
GoS       Government of Senegal
HFO       Heavy Fuel Oil
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IsDB     Islamic Development Bank
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IPP      Independent Power Producer
IS       Interconnected System
ISDS     Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
KfW      German Cooperation Agency
LCS      Least-Cost Selection
MEM      Ministère de 1'Energie et des Mines (Ministry of Energy and Mines)
MW       Megawatt
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
OBA      Output-Based Aid
OMVS     Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Sénégal (Senegal River
         Basin Organization)
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PETROSEN Société des Pétroles du Sénégal (Senegal National Petroleum Company)
PIC      Public Information Center
PPA      Power Purchase Agreement
PPP      Public-Private Partnership
PRG      Partial Risk Guarantee
PRGF     Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
RE       Rural Electrification
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
SA       Special Account
SAR      Société Africaine de Rqffinage (Refining Company)
SENELEC  Société Nationale d 'Electricité (National Power Utility of Senegal)
SBD      Standard Bidding Document
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
SPC      Special Purpose Company
SPV      Special Purpose Vehicle
TA       Technical Assistance
WAPP     West Africa Power Pool


            Vice President:            Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
            Acting Country Director:   McDonald Benjamin
            Sector Manager:            Lucio Monari
            Project Team Leader:       Stephan Garnier
            ICR Team Leader:           Stephan Garnier
 
                                SENEGAL
           ELECTRICITY SECTOR EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
                              PHASE 1, APL-1




                                                         CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 17
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 26
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 28
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 29
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 30
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 43
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                       SN - Electricity Sector
                                                                       Efficiency
Country:                Senegal                 Project Name:
                                                                       Enhancement - Phase 1,
                                                                       APL-1
Project ID:             P073477                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-40600
ICR Date:               01/25/2011              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                       SENEGAL
Original Total
                        XDR 10.5M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 3.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 10.5M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 SENELEC
 Ministry of Energy and Mines
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/21/2003     Effectiveness:          12/09/2005        12/09/2005
Appraisal:            03/21/2005     Restructuring(s):                         12/28/2010
Approval:             05/17/2005     Mid-term Review:        07/31/2008        10/15/2008
                                     Closing:                01/31/2009        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory     Government:         Unsatisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                         Unsatisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                         Unsatisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      8                   8
Power                                                                 92                  92


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                50                  50
Rural services and infrastructure                                     50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Kathryn Ezekwesili          Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Mcdonald Benjamin                    Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            Lucio Monari                         Yusupha B. Crookes
Project Team Leader:       Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier      Michel Layec
ICR Team Leader:           Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier
ICR Primary Author:        Nourredine Bouzaher

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project development objectives are to: (a) increase the electricity supply and the
reliability and cost-effectiveness of electricity services; and (b) enhance the performance
of key energy sector institutions.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority):
The project development objectives were not revised during the life of the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

      Indicator           Baseline        Original Target          Formally         Actual Value Achieved
                           Value           Values (from             Revised        at Completion or Target
                                             approval               Target                  Years
                                           documents)               Values
Indicator 1:            New generation facility of 67.5 MW commissioned (Kounoune I project)
                        No plant         New generating                      Achieved (with delay)
Value quantitative or                    facility of 67.5 MW
qualitative                              commissioned in
                                         2006
Date achieved           12/31/2004       12/31/2006                          01/31/2008
Comments (incl. %       The 67.5 MW Kounoune I IPP plant was commissioned in January 2008.
achievement)
Indicator 2:            Electricity sales increased
Value quantitative or   1538 GWh in         1875 GWh in 2007               Achieved (with delay)
qualitative             2004
Date achieved           12/31/2004          12/31/2007                     12/31/2009
Comments (incl. %       1868 GWh in 2008, 1956 GWh in 2009 and 2100 GWh in 2010
achievement)
Indicator 3:            Reduction of interruption of power deliveries
Value quantitative or   14 GWh in            8 GWh in 2007                         Not achieved
qualitative             2004
Date achieved           12/31/2004           12/31/2007                            12/31/2010
Comments (incl. %       Undelivered energy increased and reached a peak in 2008 (105 GWh), 2009 (88 GWh)
achievement)            and up to 174GWh in 2010. It is expected to be higher (250GWh at the end of September)
                        in 2011.
Indicator 4:            Reduction in SENELEC’s variable cost of generation and purchases
                        (Sector indicator)
Value quantitative or   Index =100 for Reduction of 7% by                          Not achieved
qualitative             2004 (*)             2007 (based on the
                                             2004 petroleum
                        (*) Imprecise        products price
                        baseline as it       levels)
                        does not
                        indicate the
                        level of
                        variable cost
                        the base year
                        index
                        corresponds to.
Date achieved           12/31/2004           12/31/2007                            12/31/2010
Comments (incl. %       After a reduction in generation costs with the commissioning of new power generation
achievement)            facilities (Bel Air (60MW), Kahone (60MW) and Kounoune (67.5MW), the variable costs
                        significantly increased in 2009-2010, due to the sharp increase in fuel prices and lack of
                        maintenance of aged facilities. Senelec reported an increase in variable generation cost of
                        about 50% compared to its level in 2004.
Indicator 5:            Decrease in technical and non-technical transmission and distribution losses (T&D) as a %
                        of net generation
                        (Sector Indicator)




                                                     iii
Value quantitative or                                                             Not achieved
qualitative
                        17.5% in 2004        15.5% in 2007
Date achieved           12/31/2004           12/31/2007                            12/31/2010
Comments (incl. %       Increase in technical and non technical losses since 2004. As of December 2010, the level
achievement)            of losses was estimated at 21.4%.
Indicator 6:            Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system for the energy sector set up.
Value quantitative or                                                              Partially achieved
qualitative             No M&E               M&E system for the
                        system in place energy sector in
                                             place
Date achieved           12/31/2004           12/31/2007                            12/31/2007
Comments (incl. %       With the creation of an Audit Department within SENELEC, there has been progress in
achievement)            setting-up an M&E system for SENELEC’s Board. An M&E system for the entire energy
                        sector (including SENELEC) is also under development at the Ministry level.
Indicator 7:            New electricity tariff mechanism set up
Value quantitative or   Existing tariff      Existing tariff                       Achieved
qualitative             setting              mechanism
                        mechanism            reviewed
                        needs to be
                        reviewed every
                        5 years
Date achieved           12/31/2004           06/30/2006                            06/30/2010
Comments (incl. %       The tariff setting mechanism was reviewed twice during the life of the project. The last
achievement)            review took place in 2011 to establish an annual review and to account for variation of
                        inflation in fuel prices on a monthly basis. However in 2011, the average tariff was still
                        much below the cost of service.
Indicator 8:            Adoption of a training program for public sector staff (SENELEC, Ministry of Energy and
                        CRSE)
Value quantitative or   No training          Adoption of a                         Partially achieved
qualitative             program in           yearly training
                        place                program for the
                                             public sector staff
Date achieved           12/31/2004           01/31/2009                            12/31/2010
Comments (incl. %       Each public entity prepared its own training program. However, due to the lack of
achievement)            financing the training program was not implemented every year.
Indicator 9:            Implementation by GoS of PPP arrangements for SENELEC
Value quantitative or   No decision as       PPP arrangements                      Partially achieved
qualitative             yet taken by         implemented by
                        GoS                  GoS
Date achieved           12/31/2004           12/31/2007                            12/31/2010
Comments (incl. %       Although two IPPs were contracted (with Kounoune Power financed under the project;
achievement)            and 125 MW coal based plant under construction), the Government did not define its
                        detailed strategy for private participation in SENELEC (despite indicating its commitment
                        to SENELEC’s reform with private participation in its Letter of Sector Policy in February
                        2008.
                        However, preparatory work has been conducted during the project. A consultant has been
                        recruited to accompany SENELEC and the authorities in the implementation of
                        SENELEC’s unbundling.
                        The studies to create an holding and three subsidiaries have been completed under the
                        project. The accounting systems have been separated.




                                                     iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                              Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                   Values (from                                 Achieved at
       Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                     approval                                  Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                   documents)                                  Target Years
Indicator 1:            Beginning of construction by selected sponsors and commercial commissioning of the
                        Kounoune I IPP
Value quantitative or                                                                         Achieved
qualitative             No Kounoune I IPP           Satisfactory operation
                                                    of Kounoune I IPP
                                                    (67.5 MW)
Date achieved           12/31/2004                  12/31/2007                                01/31/2008
Comments (incl. %       The intermediate indicator does not indicate a target completion date. Plant construction
achievement)            was completed by end 2006 and fully commissioned by January 2008.
Indicator 2:            Award the contracts and completion of works relating to the transmission and distribution
                        networks and rehabilitation of generation facilities
Value quantitative or                                                                         Dropped
qualitative             No contract awarded         Contracts awarded and
                                                    work completed
Date achieved           12/31/2004                  12/31/2007                                12/31/2010
Comments (incl. %       Activities related to this indicator have been cancelled and indicator dropped following the
achievement)            restructuring (cancellation of funds) of the project in December 2010.
Indicator 3:            Award of contracts and completion of Master plan studies for generation, transmission and
                        distribution
Value quantitative or                                                                         Achieved
qualitative             No Master plans             Master plans
                                                    completed
Date achieved           12/31/2004                  12/31/2007                                09/30/2010
Comments (incl. %       The two Master Plans have been completed
achievement)
Indicator 4:            Completion of a communication plan. Completing/setting up of a Monitoring& Evaluation
                        Database.
Value quantitative or                                                                   Partially achieved
qualitative             No communication plan Communication plan                        .
                        in place and no M&E completed and M&E
                        database              database set up.
Date achieved           12/31/2004            12/31/2006                                12/31/2008
Comments (incl. %       SENELEC’s communication strategy is still under preparation under own resources.
achievement)
                        With the creation of an Audit Department within SENELEC, there has been progress in
                        setting-up an M&E system for SENELEC’s Board. An M&E system for the entire energy
                        sector (including SENELEC) is also under development at the Ministry level.
Indicator 5:            Implementation by GoS of PPP arrangements for SENELEC
Value quantitative or                                                                       Partially achieved
qualitative             No new PPP                 New PPP arrangement
                        arrangement in place       implemented
Date achieved           12/31/2004                 12/31/2007                               12/31/2010
Comments (incl. %       Although two IPPs were contracted (with Kounoune Power financed under the project; and
achievement)            125 MW coal based plant under construction), the Government did not define its detailed
                        strategy for private participation in SENELEC (despite indicating its commitment to
                        SENELEC’s reform with private participation in its Letter of Sector Policy in February
                        2008.
                        However, preparatory work has been conducted during the project. A consultant has been
                        recruited to accompany SENELEC and the authorities in the implementation of
                        SENELEC’s unbundling.
                        The studies to create an holding and three subsidiaries have been completed under the
                        project. The accounting systems have been separated.

                                                       v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    12/21/2005       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.00
  2    06/30/2006       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    3.32
  3    12/29/2006       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    3.32
  4    06/18/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                3.32
  5    12/17/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                3.32
  6    06/06/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                3.32
  7    12/19/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                3.32
  8    06/09/2009       Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               3.62
  9    12/17/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory              3.71
 10    06/27/2010   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory              4.51

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     See Section 1.7 below for more
 12/28/2010               MS    MU            6.2
                                                     details

I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The Senegalese authorities managed the economy well in 2003 and 2004,
achieving robust economic growth and low inflation. The fiscal deficit and government
indebtedness were maintained at sustainable levels. Progress in structural reforms
continued, although at a slow pace. The macroeconomic outlook for 2005 appeared
favorable, with continued vigorous economic growth, low consumer price inflation, and a
sustainable fiscal position. The fiscal program for 2005 allowed for modest increases in
current expenditure, kept the investment outlays in line with the absorptive capacity of
the economy and foreign financing, and aimed at an ambitious but feasible revenue
target.

2.     The prudent fiscal policy preceding project approval was foreseen to continue
over the medium term. The authorities strove to maintain low budget deficits, collect
revenue efficiently, and tighten control on current expenditure to allow for measured
increases in capital and pro-poor spending. They also kept an eye on the growth of
contingent liabilities, including those arising from public enterprise borrowing and
prospective public private partnerships in the implementation of investment projects.

3.      Vigorous implementation of structural reforms, especially in the electricity and
groundnut sectors, improvements in the business climate, and upgrades to the
infrastructure sectors were seen as key to lowering the cost of production, raising the
efficiency of the export sector, and preserving the external competitiveness of the
economy.

4.       The strong economic growth experienced over the years preceding project
approval was however showing strains and structural weaknesses in various sectors were
to blame. The electricity sector was beset by difficulties. The electricity generation,
transmission and distribution facilities were old and in poor condition due to lack of
investment and maintenance (about 30% of SENELEC’s production facilities were more
than 25 years old). Its facilities could not therefore effectively meet the rapidly growing
demand for electricity of about 25 to 35 MW per year (7 to 10% per year). Furthermore,
the financial performance of the sector was poor and unable to provide the funds
necessary to fill the investment gap generated by the demand growth. As a result, the
utility’s operating costs were high and its finances were in a precarious situation. If
major investments were not carried out in an effective and timely fashion, the utility’s
financial and operational performance would have continued to deteriorate and the
economy would have likely been damaged.

5.      The GoS, in its Energy Sector Development Letter (dated April 9, 2003), stated
that the main objective for the electricity sector is to secure a reliable supply of electricity
services required by the economy and the population at the lowest possible cost. To meet
this objective, GoS proposed three areas for action: (a) restructuring the generation,



                                               1
transmission and distribution activities currently carried out by SENELEC; (b) promoting
private sector participation for financing and improving the sector’s performance; and (c)
increasing access to electricity services in rural areas.

6.       On this basis, GoS prepared a ten-year investment program to be implemented in
two phases to: (a) maintain and quickly increase the electricity supply and service
reliability as needed by the economy and the population; (b) reduce costs of the
electricity service; and (c) enhance the performance of key energy sector institutions. In
the first phase (mid 2005-mid 2008), urgent investments were to be made to ward off the
technical and financial deterioration of the electricity sector and to provide electricity
services to the economy and the population. These investments should have been made
earlier, but were neglected, as GoS’s efforts and attention were mostly focused on the
privatization of SENELEC (in the late 90’s). In the second phase (mid 2008-mid 2012),
investments were to be made to expand coverage and continue reducing costs through
improving the efficiency of investment and strengthening of sector’s institutions. The
government requested the donor community, including the Bank Group, to cofinance a
substantial part of SENELEC’s investment program. The Bank decided to support part of
the program through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), Partial Risk Guarantees (PRGs)
and IFC loans as well as potential MIGA support.

7.      The main rationale for Bank involvement in the development of the energy sector
was to support the implementation of the PRSP and GoS’s development and reform
strategy for the energy sector. This was to be achieved through: (i) key investments in the
energy sector, which would increase the level and the quality of energy services and
reduce the costs of providing such services to the economy; and (ii) private investment
and commercial financing in the electricity and petroleum subsectors.

8.      The overall goal of the PRSP, considered by the World Bank Board on December
22, 2002, was to reduce poverty by more than half between 2001 and 2015. A CAS was
presented and approved by the Board on April 17, 2003. It supported the GoS’s PRSP
around the pillars of (i) wealth creation, and (ii) capacity building and development of
social services. Per capita supply of infrastructure services in Senegal is low and a major
objective of the CAS was to expand their supply, to lower service costs and to promote
private sector development. The project was included in the base case scenario of the
CAS.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

9.      The main development objective of the program was to help Senegal provide
reliable and cost effective energy services to support economic growth and poverty
alleviation. Such program was to be implemented in two phases. Phase I (APL-1) main
objective was to increase the installed capacity of the power system, and therefore, the
availability of reliable electricity at lower costs, foster private sector participation in the
energy sector, promote the development of Senegal’s hydrocarbon resources and
strengthen the petroleum sector and the institutions of the energy sector.




                                              2
10.     The Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement Project (the Project) was designed
to implement key activities of the first phase of the APL due to limitations in availability
of IDA 13 resources. The objectives of the Project were to: (a) increase the electricity
supply and the reliability and cost-effectiveness of electricity services; and (b) enhance
the performance of key institutions of the energy sector.

11.    The complete list of key indicators is given in section F: Results Framework
Analysis above.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

12.      The original project objectives and the key indicators1 were not revised over the
life of the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     The primary target groups were the Ministry of Energy and government owned
enterprises under its control, more specifically SENELEC, the national power utility, the
regulator, as well as the private sector, and the economy at large (industry, commerce and
households).

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

14.    To support the GoS ten-year investment program in the electricity sector, it was
proposed that the Bank Group support for the Program includes an Adaptable Program
Loan (APL), Partial Risk Guarantees (PRGs) and IFC loans as well as potential MIGA
support.

15.     The program was to be implemented in two phases. The Electricity Sector
Efficiency Enhancement Project was designed to implement key activities of the first
phase of the APL and use the allocated IDA 13 resources.

16.      The Project (under IDA 13 available resources) consisted of the following parts:

         Part A. Support to SENELEC (IDA Credit US$11.46 M; PRG of up to US$ 7.2
         M and IFC A loan of up to Euro 17 M)




1
  However, with the cancellation of the rehabilitations/reinforcement investments, the intermediate result
indicator: Award of the contracts and completion of works relating to the transmission and distribution
networks and rehabilitation of generation facilities) was dropped.




                                                     3
        1. Strengthening SENELEC’s power generation, distribution, and transmission
           capacities, through: (a) the support to efforts to attract private investments in
           new electricity generation facilities; and (b) the rehabilitation and
           strengthening of its distribution and transmission networks;

        2. Providing technical assistance to SENELEC to develop its master plan(s) for
           electricity generation, transmission and distribution; and

        3. Supporting the preparation and implementation of a training program for
           staff of SENELEC.

       Part B. Institutional Strengthening and Project Monitoring and Evaluation
       (US$1.0 M)

       1. Strengthening the Borrower’s implementation, monitoring and evaluation
          capacities, including: (a) support for the design of a monitoring and evaluation
          system for the MEM; (b) support in the areas of Project implementation,
          management, coordination, administration, financial and technical audits, and
          environmental and social impact assessment and mitigation; and (c) carrying
          out studies on the strengthening of capacity of the energy sector in the long
          term; and

       2. Providing advisory services to assist the Borrower in reviewing options for
          public/private partnerships for SENELEC.

       Contingencies (US$1.25 M) and refinancing of the project preparation facilities
       (US$2.0 M)

17.    To complete the APL Phase I activities, a second project (of about US$33.4 M)
was to be submitted to the consideration of the Bank’s Executive Directors in early fiscal
year 2006 as soon as IDA 14 resources would be available. The proposed allocation was
US$17.9M to complete the activities of Part A, US$12.45M to complete activities of part
B and US$ 3.0M unallocated. However this allocation never materialized for the APL.

1.6 Revised Components

18.    Late December 2010, at the request of the Government of Senegal, the project
was restructured to cancel the remaining project funds and closed, as scheduled, on
December 31, 2010. The (delayed) rehabilitation/reinforcement of SENELEC’s existing
transmission and distribution network under Component A1 could therefore no longer be
financed under the project (see section 1.7 below for more details). It would be financed
with SENELEC’s own funds.




                                             4
1.7 Other significant changes
 (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

19.     In 2006 and in the first months of 2007, Senegal suffered from a severe energy
crisis evidenced by power shortages, low quality and high cost of energy services;
increased dependence on expensive imported petroleum products, and deep financial
problems in key government owned energy companies. The government requested the
Bank to work with other donors on critical issues of the energy sector such as financial
restructuring, institutional reform, diversification of energy sources, etc, through policy
advice and financing. The Bank decided then to prepare a Development Policy Credit
(DPC)2 of SDR 49.1 million (US$80 Million equivalent) instead of investment financing
for the APL.

20.     Then in the second half of 2010, instead of pushing ahead with the project, the
Government of Senegal did not seek a further extension of the Credit closing date of
December 31, 2010, and requested the cancellation of the rehabilitation component’s
funds, because the length of extension needed to contract and execute pending
rehabilitation works under the above subcomponent would be excessive (more than 2
years). There was also little likelihood, given the performance of the project that such an
extension would have been granted had it been requested by the government. Therefore
the project was restructured in December 2010 just before the closing date.

21.      The restructuring of the project consisted in a partial cancellation of the Credit
and a reallocation between Credit categories. At the Government’s request the Bank team
first considered the recommitment of the undisbursed funds to the Senegal – Fifth
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC V), subject to the following three key
conditions: (1) adoption by the Recipient of an emergency plan acceptable to the
Association designed to remove bottlenecks in the electricity sector and improve
SENELEC’s financial situation, (2) Signed letter from the independent regulatory agency
(a) stating that SENELEC’s request to establish a new tariff formula is receivable, and (b)
indicating the schedule for the establishment of such formula, and (3) changes to
SENELEC’s tariff structure or adjustment of SENELEC’s electricity tariffs to (a)
produce additional revenues and (b) increase energy efficiency / improve demand-side
management of energy resources.

22.    Despite significant progress in reaching the three conditions, it was politically
impossible for the Government to comply with the third condition (tariff increase)
without significant restoration in the quality of service. The Bank decided then not to
recommit the undisbursed funds under the PRSC V, but rather recommitted them under
the Senegal – Tertiary Education Project approved in May 2011, as allowed under the


2
  The DPC was designed to support the policy changes needed to restore the financial equilibrium of
Senegal’s energy sector with particular emphasis on the electricity sub-sector as well as activities related to
the importing, refining, storing and distributing petroleum products in Senegal



                                                       5
Investment Lending Reform approved by the Board of Executive Directors of the World
Bank on October 22, 2009. The cancelled amount relates primarily to proceeds under the
credit allocated to the rehabilitation of existing generation facilities and reinforcement of
transmission lines, (SDR 6.4 million - approx USD9.7 million or 60 percent of the total
credit amount) which, to date, has not been implemented.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Soundness of preparatory work:

23.      The ESEEP was a follow-up project to a major adjustment operation financed by
IDA in the energy sector and also to the Electricity Services for Rural Areas Project
approved by the Board of Directors in September 2004. As a result of the experience
accumulated during the preparation and implementation of these two operations, the
following were identified as important criteria for the ESEEP design: (a) fundamental
sector reforms are essential to ensure continued and sustainable development of the
energy sector and the pivotal role private sector participation has to play if the sector is to
increase electricity coverage and support the growth of the economy; (b) sector reform,
with emphasis on private sector participation, entails strong political commitment and
public endorsement; (c) prioritization of investments based on technical, financial and
economic merit, starting by rehabilitating and increasing the efficiency of existing
investments, and increasing plant and equipment whenever justified; (d) strong donors’
support was seen as key to provide comfort to private investors and mitigate perceived
risks, especially after two failed attempts at privatizing SENELEC, the national power
utility, which undermined international investors’ confidence in the power sector of
Senegal; and (e) need for realistic and simplified design and ownership by stakeholders.
These lessons were, for the most part, formally addressed in the design of ESEEP but
several misjudgments were made regarding government commitment, ownership of the
project by SENELEC, coordination between the Ministry of Energy and SENELEC and
the capacity of the sector to implement an however relatively modest program of
rehabilitation of generation, transmission and distribution.

24.     The preparation of the ESEEP took about one year and a half between the review
of the concept of the project and the appraisal of the operation. This allowed for a project
preparation facility advance to be deployed for preparatory work. However, despite
detailed analytical work, the component 1 of the project was not fully prepared as the
bidding documents for the rehabilitation component were not ready.

Adequacy of government commitment:

25.    Commitment to, and ownership of, the project were strong during project
preparation on the Government side. During the project design, the GoS repeatedly
expressed its interest in the Bank’s continuing support to the energy sector. However, the


                                                6
very difficult dialogue between the Bank and the General Manager of SENELEC during
project preparation led to the decision to locate the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
within the Ministry of Energy and not within SENELEC which resulted in a lack of
ownership on SENELEC’s side and thus the very slow implementation pace.

Assessment of risks:

26.      The weakening of the financial position of SENELEC that was due to unwise
investment and financing decisions, higher fuel costs not compensated by tariff
adjustments, decrease in the collection rate and inability or unwillingness of the oversight
institutions to carry out their responsibilities, was rightly identified and rated as “High? at
appraisal and one of the major potential risks associated with the project. The following
actions were proposed to manage this risk: (i) in the short run: (a) upfront agreement and
close monitoring of SENELEC’s investment program financing and business plan, and a
stricter process for capital budgeting and financing decisions 3 ; (b) revision of the
electricity tariff adjustment formula, especially to allow for speedy adjustments to fuel
prices changes; (c) strengthened role of SENELEC’s Board of Executive Directors; and
(d) strengthened sector institutions. For the medium term, the involvement of private
partners was seen as providing additional risk mitigation.

27.   Financial covenants were also imposed on SENELEC but the conditions under
which these covenants could be achieved were not investigated in depth nor were
measures to that effect put in place.

28.    There was an over optimism with respect to the Government’s readiness to
proceed with forceful reforms in the power sector and on petroleum product sector
pricing and reform. In addition, a lack of realism on the part of SENELEC and the
Ministry of Energy concerning the coming into stream of new generation capacity, which
would have changed the prospects of the sector in terms of greater capacity and lower
cost through sizeable natural gas and coal-fired power plants, significantly affected
SENELEC’s financial position and projections for financial self-sustainability.

29.    The risk associated with lack of ownership by SENELEC, for the implementation
of Part A of the project, at the early stages of project implementation was overlooked.
This has delayed the project and stifled dialogue4. Finally, a modest risk was connected
with the inability of central government and SENELEC to provide required counterpart
contributions for investments; this assessment was correct since during project
implementation, the GoS was fully committed to provide timely and sufficient
counterpart funding, while SENELEC contributed its own share.



3
 Several financial covenants were included in the Project Agreement of June 28, 2005, including a Debt
Service Coverage Ratio, a Return on Assets requirement and a Financial Leverage Ratio.

4
    Project implementation and dialogue improved up after the general manager was replaced by GoS in 2006.



                                                     7
Assessment of adequacy of project Design:

30.     The Project’s strategy to focus on priority investments on the basis of technical,
financial and economic merit criteria, made sense. The project therefore concentrated on
cost effective investments such as the rehabilitation of existing power infrastructure.

31.      Under budgetary constraints, the project design provided the right path for
sustaining the sector while pushing forward the planning process for future investments
to meet demand.        Combining capacity building, institutional strengthening and
investments under the ESEEP was also the right strategic choice. Outputs of the
institutional component were directed towards establishing a suitable framework and an
enabling environment for effective implementation of the physical investment
component, such as the establishment of public-private partnerships for SENELEC. Two
master plans for generation and transmission and, distribution, were prepared. However,
underlying this planning exercise was the expectation of a turnaround in SENELEC’s
financial situation so that it would be able to finance at least part of its investment
program. This did not materialize.

32.   However, the project was clearly underfunded compared to the Project
Development Objectives which were overly ambitious in terms of efficiency
improvement and did not directly relate to investments under the project.

33.    Project design did not    include the development of a strategy and action plan on
power sector governance and      petroleum product pricing and sector reform, to be dealt
with during implementation.      These issues were not seriously addressed during project
implementation with severe       consequences for SENELEC operational and financial
performance.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

34.     The following factors had a major impact on the implementation of the project, as
they prevented reaching the targets set for the key performance indicators of the project.
35.     Difficult dialogue between the Bank and management of SENELEC: The
delays at the start of the project were due to the very difficult dialogue between the Bank
and the management of SENELEC until the end of 2006 when the General Manager of
SENELEC was changed. The location of the project implementation unit within the
Ministry of Energy was also the result of this difficult dialogue and this did not help
project implementation.

36.     Slow pace of implementation due to insufficient project readiness: In
December 2008, just before the initial closing date and after three years of
implementation, the commitment of IDA resources was slow and only a minor portion of
the credit was disbursed ($2.51 million; or about 16% of the available IDA credit).
Project's implementation lagged behind original estimates. The pace at which the project
activities proceeded was not in keeping with initial forecasts. Not only were procurement


                                                8
activities delayed but also, for some important components such as the rehabilitation of
transmission and distribution lines were differed at the request of SENELEC and replaced
by the rehabilitation of the Cap des Biches steam power station5. The lack of preparation
of the bidding documents for Cap des Biches power station rehabilitation resulted in
rebidding because the initial call for bids proved to be non responsive, further delaying
project implementation.

37.     However, this pace improved significantly in 2009 but came too late in view of
the closeness of the closing date. As late as January 2010, several components were still
being bid such as the rehabilitation of the Cap des Biches power station.

38.     Persistent deterioration of SENELEC’s financial situation: The underlying
theme of project implementation has been the persistent deterioration of SENELEC’s
financial situation 6 resulting in a severe cash flow crisis despite substantial financial
support provided by the GoS. The Bank team intensified its supervision and support to
both SENELEC and the Ministry of Energy but SENELEC’s focus of attention clearly
shifted away from the project.

39.     Significant increase in oil prices: The energy crisis of 2008, with a barrel at
U$147 in July 2008, was exceptional in its severity. Fuel price increases had a
detrimental effect on SENELEC’s recovery efforts and made difficult financial transfers
by the government to the electricity sub-sector. SENELEC estimated that its variable
costs increased by about 27% as a result of the fuel price increase.

40.     Inadequate levels of tariffs: The formula for SENELEC’s revenue control that
prevailed, between 2005 and 2009, was inadequate to ensure SENELEC’s financial
viability on a yearly basis insofar as the formula took into account future, lower
production costs in setting current prices. However, with the second revision of the tariff
methodology, concluded in May 2010, the authorities decided to maintain the same
approach (i.e. a price cap averaged over five years)7.

41.     Insufficient action from both the Government and SENELEC: The
supervision missions recommended a number of measures to expedite project
implementation with a view to meeting the project objectives and disburse the available
credit in a timely manner, including short term measures such as: (i) strengthening
corporate governance of SENELEC; (ii) revising of the electricity tariff formula to


5
    Agreed while extending the project closing date

6
  The rapid deterioration in SENELEC’s financial position was caused by: (i) delays in generation
investment which resulted in the rental of expensive generators, (ii) increase in the price of fuel, and (iii)
insufficient tariff adjustments.

7
  In February 2011, the Government made changes to the tariff setting formula. The frequency of the tariff
review was reduced from 5 to 3 years with a yearly assessment of revenues needs and payment of tariff
compensation on a quarterly basis.


                                                       9
improve SENELEC’s cost recovery; (iii) competitive fuel procurement to reduce costs;
(iv) budgetary support to SENELEC; and (v) financial restructuring of SENELEC.
Other measures were to be implemented within a longer timeframe: (i) diversification
away from petroleum based power generation through the development of coal-fired and
renewable energy such as hydro; and (ii) reform of the power sector’s structure. Some of
these measures were also part of a package of measures agreed with the government
during the preparation of the Senegal – Energy Sector Recovery Development Policy
Credit which was approved by the Board in June 2008. However, despite the continuous
dialogue with the Bank, the Government did not take sufficient actions to address these
issues, in particular the problems of governance of the power and petroleum product sub-
sectors.

42.     SENELEC was focused on very short term issues to address load shedding,
its financial situation and customer discontent: Another factor that had an impact on
project implementation was the fact that SENELEC was mostly focused in managing a
crisis situation, financial but also, given the extent of load shedding, technical and
relational. Undelivered energy increased and reached peaks in 2008 (105 GWh), 2009
(88 GWh) and 2010 (174 GWh). It is expected to be even higher in 2011 (already 250
GWh at the end of September). Political pressure on SENELEC to find an immediate
solution to load shedding was intense.

43.     As a result of the above factors, implementation pace was extremely slow and
about US$9.5 million or about 60% of IDA credit of US$15.7 million had to be canceled
because a number of activities could not be carried out before the closing date of the
project or were financed out of SENELEC’s own resources. Only studies and institutional
support activities (but no physical investments) were carried out during the
implementation period of the project

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

44.    The baseline data for the indicators were prepared8 and the monitoring system
was simple and based on measurable outputs. MEM, through the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) carried out the overall monitoring of the project and the achievement of
output indicators and reported these quarterly to the Bank. The monitoring included a
separate detailed reporting by SENELEC covering progress on physical implementation,
procurement, financial commitments and other elements of project progress. There was
close supervision of the operation by the Bank’s team based in Dakar with support as
needed from Washington. There were regular meetings between MEM, SENELEC and
IDA to review the progress in project implementation as well as the technical,
commercial and financial performance of SENELEC.




8
 Except for the reduction in the variable costs of SENELEC’s generation and energy purchases where the
baseline was set at an index of 100 without indicating what level of variable costs this corresponds to.



                                                   10
45.     As for results on the ground, the set of indicators proved to be relevant for sector
related indicators but less for measuring specific outcomes of the project. As shown in
Section F above, three indicators were achieved including one with delay, three were
partially achieved and three were not achieved. Sustainability of M&E arrangements
beyond the project implementation period could not be ascertained.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

46.     Environment and social safeguards: Project design took into account the
Bank’s safeguards policies and included procedures and implementation arrangements to
ensure full consideration of environmental safeguards in accordance with OP 4.01.
Specifically, guidance on procedures and arrangements for environmental screening,
assessment, consultations, disclosure, as well as EMP monitoring during implementation,
were clearly stated in the Project’s Operational Manual. On the social safeguards side,
OP 4.12 was triggered since land acquisition was anticipated to result from some project
components such as the Kounoune IPP. An EIA was completed in February 2004 for the
Kounoune I IPP power plant and since the detailed engineering was not available for the
rehabilitation of existing power facilities, a detailed Environmental Policy Framework
and Resettlement Policy Framework were prepared, as well as a Public Consultation
Plan. No new transmission lines were needed.             The Consultation Plan and the
conclusions were included in the EIA for the plant and were disclosed at the Bank’s
Infoshop, the Ministry of Environment and SENELEC. Apart for Kounoune IPP, the
project documentation did not reveal any social impact grievance as a result of
implemented project components.

47.     Kounoune IPP. The ESIA required a 500 meters buffer zone around the plant
perimeter which resulted in land acquisition and resettlement. It was agreed following
the Bank’s (and IFC) last meeting, in January 2010, with various stakeholders (including
representatives from de “Département de l’Environnement et des Etablissements Classés
(DEEC), the Ministry of Energy, the Mayor of Sangalkham, Kounoune Power? (KP),
WB and IFC) that the 500m buffer zone requirement will be revised following a detailed
risk assessment. Kounoune Power recently completed a Hazard Analysis report and
submitted it to the DEEC for comments; the final draft has not yet been sent to IFC. The
report will determine the outstanding problem of encroachment of the buffer zone around
the plant. There is a community health and safety concern as commercial and residential
construction continues within the 500 meter buffer designated around the plant and in
some cases over the two gas and fuel pipelines that run parallel to the KP plant. There is
no apparent solution in the immediate term; however the Hazard Analysis may result in a
reduced buffer zone from 500m to 40 or 20m. It is likely that further resettlement may
occur after the designation of the new buffer zone limitation.

48.    With respect to the air quality impacts, the Supplemental EIA, predicted that the
Senegalese air quality standards may be exceed for a limited number of hours (94 hours
per year) for NO2 1-hour maximum standard and days (8 days per year) for SO2 24-hour
maximum standard. In order to mitigate these, the Kounoune Project Sponsors have
implemented mitigation measures and undertaken continuous air quality monitoring at


                                                11
the location of the maximum impact and results shows that air quality standards have
been respected over the last three years

49.     Financial management. Over the last two years of the project implementation,
financial management rating was unsatisfactory because of an inadequate management
system at the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the Ministry of Energy, lack of
coordination between this unit and SENELEC and the non reimbursement of an ineligible
expenditure of about US$24,000. On the advice from the Bank, the PCU recruited an
external assistance to help with carrying out the accounting and financial operations of
the project as well as the preparation of financial statements and the financial follow up
of the project and the Ministry of Finance reimbursed the ineligible expenditure.
Although this has allowed an updating of the project’s accounts and the preparation of
quarterly financial statements, it has not been deemed sufficient for a satisfactory
financial implementation of the project. The 2009 accounts of the project were however
certified without qualifications, although the auditors made recommendations for the
improvement of internal project controls. While the audits were carried out in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing each year, some reports were
submitted with some delay.

50.     Procurement: Major procurement issues were identified during project
implementation that led to significant delays. Even taking into account the fact that
SENELEC was in the midst of a grave financial crisis, the overall procurement capacity
of SENELEC has probably been overestimated and as bidding documents were not ready
ahead, procurement actions were taken with delay and to make things worse, important
packages had to be rebid because they failed to attract responsive bids. Submission of
prior review contracts to the Bank was sometimes late due to failures in coordination
between SENELEC and the MEM. The delays and failures were noticeably fewer in the
last year of the Project as all parties involved better understood and responded to the
requirements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

51.     In view of the continuing strong growth of electricity demand, SENELEC’s
investment plans include power generation, transmission and distribution with a large
role foreseen for the private sector especially in generation. However, unresolved tariff,
collection and billing, and operational issues hamper SENELEC’s efforts to meet
demand. These issues and lack of capital/equity make it difficult for SENELEC to access
capital markets and private investors to finance supply expansion.

52.     The Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement Project (the subject of this ICR)
and a development policy operation (the Energy Sector Recovery Project) have, for
various reasons, failed to turn the situation around particularly regarding SENELEC’s
financial viability. The dramatic surge in oil prices in 2008 and the 2008-09 financial
crises resulted in government budget slippages and various disruptions in fuel supply to


                                             12
SENELEC in 2009 and 2010. In addition, despite several tariff adjustments between 2007
and 20099, the authorities did not set a tariff benchmarked to SENELEC’s revenues and
performance because of customer affordability constraints and political economy
considerations. The government found it politically impossible to pass through to
consumers the whole of the cost increase through tariffs over a short period. Weakened
by the food and economic crises, many consumers would have found difficult to cope
with the price shock. The government was itself equally affected by the extra fuel cost
and the reduction in fiscal revenues because of the economic crisis. It was therefore not
in a position to effect budgetary transfers of the magnitude required to compensate
SENELEC for fuel and other costs it incurred.

53.     The appointment in October 2010 of a new Minister for the energy sector has
brought a new impetus, vision and direction for energy sector recovery and reform.
With support from international and national firms, the new Minister mandated the
preparation of a major restructuring and recovery plan for the whole energy sector, based
on a 360 degree diagnostic and audit. The diagnostic of the electricity sector carried out
in October 2010 pointed to two main issues: one is the growing gap between fast
growing demand and a limited, costly and unreliable supply of electricity and the other
one is SENELEC’s persistent financial difficulties with a significant operating deficit and
high indebtedness.

54.     The Bank team supported the government and its team of consultants in the
preparation of the 2010-2014 electricity emergency plan (Plan Takkal) aimed at (a)
removing the electricity supply bottlenecks by ensuring additional power capacity prior
to the commissioning of a coal-fired power plant scheduled for 2014/2015 and enhancing
demand side management and energy efficiency; and (b) addressing SENELEC’s cash-
flow and financing constraints.

55.     The Bank has found this program relevant to address the issues of the electricity
sector in Senegal and decided to support it through a new investment operation, which is
being prepared for Board presentation in FY12. The Bank may provide assistance in the
financing of transmission and distribution investments and in the deployment of prepaid
and electronic meters both to improve SENELEC’s cash flow and reduce distribution
losses.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

56.     The general objectives and the activities supported by the ESEEP were fully
relevant to the situation of the electricity sector in Senegal. The relevance of the project
objectives is therefore rated high. The project objective, as stated in the PAD, focused on:


9
    With the current energy mix, Senegal has one of the highest electricity tariffs in West Africa.




                                                              13
(a) increasing of the electricity supply and the reliability and cost-effectiveness of the
electricity services; and (b) enhancing the performance of key institutions in the energy
sector. However, as stated above, these objectives appear overly ambitious in relation
with the limited scope of the project.

57.     Although a number of the government’s policies, strategies, and priorities were
reconsidered after the project was approved, the ESEEP objectives have been relevant
and consistent, both at approval and during implementation. Developing access to
electricity services, ensuring that SENELEC becomes an efficient utility and does not
become an undue burden on the government’s budget and priorities, fostering private
sector participation in all segments of the power industry in Senegal, and improving
infrastructure and electricity service provision to the population constitute an important
objective of Bank intervention in the sector (e.g. Energy Sector Recovery Development
Policy Credit).

58.     Such objective remains relevant to the current stage of Senegal’s development.
Improving infrastructure service delivery has been a central theme in each of the past
CASs throughout the life of the project, including the current CAS of May 2, 2007
covering the period 2007-2010. It supports the GoS’s PRSP around the pillar of wealth
creation, including the building and maintaining basic infrastructure for growth. Per
capita supply of infrastructure services in Senegal is low and a major objective of the
CAS was to expand the supply of infrastructure services, to lower service costs and to
promote private sector development.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

59.      The objectives of the project were only partially met: The increasing supply
objective was met with delay through the commissioning of the Kounoune IPP project in
2008 and the electricity sales exceeded the target in 2010. The commissioning of the
Kounoune HFO fired IPP of 67.5 MW that is now delivering energy to the grid on the
basis of a 15-year Power Purchase Agreement with SENELEC is remarkable given the
history of failed privatizations of SENELEC and the little appetite foreign investors had
for investments in African power sectors. The targets related to the enhancement of the
performance of energy sector institutions were also either not achieved or only partially
achieved. The targets related to the adoption of a training program for public sector
institutions and the adoption of a new electricity mechanism and those related to: (i) the
setting up of a monitoring and evaluation system for the energy sector; and (ii) the
implementation of public-private arrangements for SENELEC were achieved or partially
achieved.

60.    However, the targets related to the efficiency of SENELEC’s operations were not
achieved. These concern in particular the reduction in undelivered energy, the reduction




                                               14
in technical and non technical losses as well as the reduction of SENELEC’s variable
costs10.

61.     Other components were not implemented such as the rehabilitation of generation,
transmission and distribution networks which will be financed by SENELEC’s and
Government’s own funds because the contract award was made near the closing date and
could not therefore be financed by the project, or, have seen their scope reduced11 such
as the Capacity Building for SENELEC, the Communication and Project Monitoring and
Evaluation, and the Capacity Building for the Energy Sector Institutions sub-components.

62.     Furthermore, 60% of the credit had to be canceled and recommitted to the Senegal
- Tertiary Education Project approved in May 2011, because a major component of the
project (rehabilitation of generation units, transmission and distribution lines) could not
be implemented.

63.        Based on this assessment, the achievement of the PDO is rated unsatisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

64.     The economic analysis contained in the PAD may have overstated the benefits of
SENELEC’s investment program. The following benefits were claimed: (i) provision of
additional electricity supply to meet demand; (ii) fuel savings gained through the use of
more efficient generating units; (iii) decrease in transmission and distribution losses and;
(iv) system reliability improvements.

65.     Least-cost optimization seeks to minimize the costs of generation. This includes
operation and maintenance as well as fuel costs. Therefore, if a program is least cost, it
already incorporates any fuel savings due to the use of more efficient mix and timing of
generation technologies. It would therefore be double counting to claim fuel savings as a
benefit of the program. Similarly, higher system reliability and lower system losses
would translate as increased sales than otherwise would be the case. Therefore, claiming
increased reliability and lower losses as additional benefits overestimates the benefits of
the program to that extent. Furthermore, any investment included in the least-cost
program is deemed itself least-cost and if the program is economically justified using
either the consumers’ willingness to pay or current average tariff as a proxy to value the


10
     The baseline for the latter was not clearly defined.

11
   Originally, the Project was designed as a two-phase APL. Due to constraints on the IDA13 allocation, the
financing of the APL1 was divided into two stages; the first stage was financed under IDA13, while the
second stage was supposed to be financed under IDA 14. However the energy sector allocation under IDA
14 was not directed to ESEEP but instead to budget support through the Energy Sector Development Policy
Credit referred to above. Some of the activities in Part B of the project were reduced in scope and had to be
financed in part by SENELEC’s or Government’s own funds.



                                                            15
economic benefits of the program, then the specific investment itself is economically
justified.

66.     Nevertheless, without going into details, due to the low achievements of the
project in contribution to SENELEC’s investment program, the project’s rate of return is
negative (without taking into account the Kounoune IPP).

67.       The Kounoune IPP was the most important investment under the project. If it
were to be looked at independently of the whole of SENELEC’s investment program in
generation/transmission, its rate of return has been conservatively estimated at 14%
(initially forecasted at 26%) and the net present value at about US$23 million.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

68.     The overall outcome of the project has a high relevance in terms of increasing the
supply of electricity in a system that was and continues to be subject to severe load
shedding. However, the poor level of achievement of the project development objectives
in terms of increasing the efficiency of the operations of SENELEC and enhancing the
efficiency of sector institutions is detrimental to the rating. On this basis, the project’s
overall outcome is rated unsatisfactory. Finally, one should recall that only about 40% of
the funds made available by IDA under the project were used.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

   (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

69.      The direct impact of the Project on lower-income urban population and other
vulnerable groups was not explicitly taken into consideration at appraisal, and no poverty
analysis was conducted at preparation stage. Gender issues were not reflected at the
preparation stage, neither was gender impact monitored during implementation. There
are still shortages in the power system in Senegal and the population continues to be
affected by the poor quality of service as shown by the increase in the indicator for
undelivered energy.

   (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
       (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
       development)

70.      The project’s institutional development impact, which is defined in ICR
guidelines as the extent to which the project “has improved the agency’s or country’s
ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources? is rated unsatisfactory.
The development objective of the project “to enhance the performance of key institutions
of the energy sector? is directly linked to institutional change and strengthening. The
institutional strengthening component targeted provision of TA and training to the


                                              16
Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) in support of the development of the capacity
required for effectively discharging its responsibilities in the sector, and to parastatals,
such as SENELEC and SAR, for improving their capacity to provide services more
effectively. The scope of the sub-components related to institutional strengthening12 was
reduced because of resource constraints under IDA 14. These activities were to be
financed by SENELEC and MEM through own resources. Nevertheless, at project
closing, the proposed training center for SENELEC was not created.

     (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
         None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

71.    The likelihood that some changes may occur that are detrimental to the ultimate
achievement of the project’s development outcome is substantial. This development
depends crucially on SENELEC’s ability to shoulder the regular payments mandated by
the power purchase agreements with the Kounoune and other IPP projects. Therefore, if
SENELEC’s financial deterioration is not stopped, the sustainability of power sector
development through private sector participation will be in doubt. This is a serious risk
given the history of frustrated private sector participation in the power sector of Senegal.
Technical (such as those deriving from lack of maintenance), social, or environmental
threats to the development outcomes may develop in the future if SENELEC’s
operational and financial performance deteriorates further.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

72.    This ICR assesses the Bank’s performance during identification, preparation, and
appraisal of the project as unsatisfactory.

73.    The composition and balance of the Bank team was adequate. It consisted of four
core sector specialists, six fiduciary and safeguards members. The project preparation
period was relatively long (17 months between concept review and appraisal), which did


12
  The Capacity Building for SENELEC, Communication and Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and
Capacity Building for the Energy Sector Institutions sub-components.


                                                17
allow to put in place the necessary arrangements for the Kounoune IPP power plant. The
Borrowers’ compliance with Bank’s safeguard policies was adequately assessed.
Strategic choices were appropriately made at the design and preparation stage such as (i)
focus on rehabilitation and increasing efficiency, (ii) combining TA and investment
capital, and (iii) focusing on sector’s institutional capacity.

74.     However, despite a solid sector background work, the project failed to come to
grip with the critical financial situation of SENELEC, it misjudged government
commitment, and it underestimated the reluctance by the former manager of SENELEC
at project inception to engage with the Bank team. Potential risks were rightly identified,
but the assessment of the Government readiness to undertake necessary reforms on sector
governance was overly optimistic.

75.     In addition and as already stated, the project was clearly underfunded on the
critical reform agenda with over ambitious PDOs and KPIs. The main investment
component was not fully prepared by SENELEC which was clearly not pushing for the
project and the location of the PIU was not adequate. Therefore, quality at entry, as a
whole, is therefore rated as unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

76.    The quality of project supervision carried out by the Bank is rated as
unsatisfactory.

77.      The quality of supervision was intensive in the second part of the project as the
team was based in Dakar (from July 2007) and therefore in constant touch with all
stakeholders. The team was proactive in responding to emerging issues and a changed
political environment. Except during the first year of implementation, the supervision
worked extensively with MEM to build up the operational capabilities of the PCU,
prepare feasibility studies and bidding documents, and thus build the framework for
accelerated rates of disbursement to happen in the following years of implementation.
The 23 month extension of the project was mainly attributed to a) slow start of the project
for the reasons discussed above, b) the need to fine-tune the investment component (i.e.
to focus first on generation rather than on the transmission and distribution rehabilitations
and finance instead the rehabilitation of the Cap des Biches power station13 ) and the
institutional strengthening component, and c) rebidding after initial bids proved
unresponsive.




13
   The financing of the approved project was not sufficient for both generation and transmission and
distribution subcomponents.



                                                    18
78.     Bank supervision missions were engaged in continued and extensive policy
dialogue with MEM, the Ministry of Finance, SENELEC, and the international donor
community based in Dakar on sector issues. Advice provided during implementation was
timely and of high quality which insured expedited process of subprojects preparation
such as the master plans for generation and transmission and distribution. The
supervision team comprised, on average, two to three sector specialists, fiduciary and
safeguards specialists from the Bank’s regional office in Dakar and sometimes from
headquarters in Washington, D.C. The supervision team provided substantial emphasis
on monitoring indicators. Relations with the borrower were generally good, but
sometimes tense especially when the team pressed the issue of SENELEC’s financial
situation and how to address it.

79.      Restructuring of the project came late: Unfortunately, despite all these efforts,
the objectives of the project were not met. The restructuring of the project came rather
late in the process; the Bank team should probably have proposed a project restructuring,
including a complete review of the results indicators, earlier, probably during the Mid
Term Review when the implementation ratings of the project started to deteriorate
midway in the implementation of the project.

80.    Focus shifted to the DPO: Despite the field-based supervision, the focus of the
dialogue with the authorities and SENELEC shifted to the DPO which appeared to be
more critical for sector recovery.

81.     Sincerity of ratings: the DO ratings appear clearly overestimated and were based
on expectation of project extension. The team should have rated the project
unsatisfactory much earlier.

82.       Based on above, the ICR rates project’s supervision as unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

83.     The rating of overall Bank performance is Unsatisfactory, being Unsatisfactory
at entry and Unsatisfactory during supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

84.    The Government performance is assessed as Unsatisfactory (U) for the following
reasons:

      •   The political will to implement energy sector reform did exist at the time of
          project startup, as evidenced in particular by the arrangements put in place for the
          Kounoune IPP and the decision to unbundle SENELEC. However, this political
          will weakened with SENELEC’s deteriorating financial situation as a result of oil


                                              19
          prices increases, delays in making investments and when it came to adjusting
          tariff, taking timely action to resolve implementation and policy issues, and
          enhancing the governance of sector entities. The focus clearly shifted toward the
          DPO.

      •   The government found itself in a bind between continuing budgetary transfers to
          the energy sector it could not sustain and increasing already high tariffs that
          would hurt consumers while not being able to bring on-stream the cost-reducing
          changes in energy generation mix quickly enough. The Government did not
          provide strategic support to address the persistent deterioration of SENELEC’s
          financial situation. The Government only provided palliative measures to address
          short term difficulties. As a result, SENELEC’s situation worsened, threatening
          sector’s objectives as well as the sustainability of private sector participation in
          the power sector in Senegal.

      •   Decision-making processes have, in general, been protracted and significant
          ambiguities and uncertainties related to key aspects of sector reform have not
          been addressed, such as the pricing of electricity services and the true scope of the
          autonomy of the regulatory authority, as well as the reform of the petroleum
          sector downstream which has a bearing on the cost of fuel for power generation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

85.       This has been rated Unsatisfactory (MU) because of the following reasons:

      •   The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) played an important role in handling
          project-related administrative matters (procurement, contract management,
          progress reports, etc.). However, the coordination between the PCU located in the
          Ministry of Energy and SENELEC was not always effective. The PCU acted as a
          go-in-between the Bank and the agencies in the energy sector involved in the
          reform process. It did not have the capacity or the authority to address substantive
          issues. This situation has hampered the dialogue with each agency.

      •   Project implementation was also delayed because of SENELEC’s management
          resistance to engaging with the Bank at the start of the project. This was resolved
          after about one year of project implementation when SENELEC management was
          changed by the Government. Project implementation, however, continued to
          suffer because SENELEC’s attention was focused on short term issues of
          ensuring adequate electric service under severe liquidity constraints.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory. see 5.2 (a) and 5.2 (b) above




                                               20
6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

86.    Small but too ambitious project with regard to significant sector needs. As
explain above the project scope was not aligned with intended PDOs which were sector
oriented.

87.      Shifted of focus: The electricity sector in Senegal has gone through significant
transformation (energy crisis, new leadership, and new approach to dealing with the
issues in the sector). In that context, the Government’s most immediate effort has been to
prepare a 2010-2014 electricity emergency plan aimed at ensuring additional power
capacity prior to the commissioning of the coal-fired power plant scheduled for 2015; and
lifting SENELEC’s cash-flow and financing constraints. In such context, it was difficult
to get the focus of all parties involved in the implementation of a project limited in size
and outcome. Both the Bank and its counterparts shifted towards trying to meet the
second tranche release conditions of the Energy Sector Recovery Development Policy
Credit.

88.     Institutional arrangements. The institutional arrangement should have been
designed in accordance with the beneficiaries of the main activities and the roles and
responsibilities of each entity. The Ministry of Energy should have played a role of
coordination entity (or a steering committee) and not an implementing unit. The dilution
of responsibility resulted from the fact that the project was implemented at the Ministry
of Energy whereas at least 80% of activities required the involvement of SENELEC for
their execution. This situation has impacted negatively on the overall performance in
addition to the lack of dedicated team for this project within the Minister’s office.

89.    Importance of appropriate field-based team. An important lesson learned in
many projects implemented by field based staff is that the rapidly changing
circumstances of the sector required an intensive and continuous dialogue which becomes
easier with the presence of sector teams in the field office. Another lesson learned
through this project is that appropriate field based dialogue and supervision is only
possible if human resources are adequate. When the team is overloaded, the quality of
implementation of smaller projects could suffer.

90.     Ownership of key design aspects and preparation issues. The resistance of some
key actors during project design and preparation may have resulted in sub-standard
solutions such as the location of the PIU. Similarly, the preparation of certain
components (e.g., rehabilitation component) was not fully completed. Subsequently, the
situation created serious implementation delays

91.     Sequencing sector policy issues and an investment operation. Sector policy and
strategy as well as the financial restructuring of SENELEC should have been the
foundation of Bank intervention in the energy sector prior to any investment
commitment. As it turns out, their absence had a detrimental effect on the achievement
of project objectives.



                                            21
92.     Financial covenants. It serves no useful purpose to impose financial covenants
that have little chance of being achieved. It is best to work on the conditions under which
these covenants will be fulfilled. Financial covenants imposed on utilities in Bank
supported projects often were not met.

93.     Realism of IP/DO ratings and project extension. The operational policy that
unsatisfactory projects should not be extended without management waiver can bring
task teams to less realism in rating IP and DO unsatisfactory in the ISR prior to project
extension.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
See annex 7

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

      (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                Project Costs (US$ million)
               Components/Activities           Initial Actual/latest      % of
                                                                        Appraisal
             A1: Generation, Transmission
             and distribution rehabilitation    9.5         0.0             0
             and reinforcement
             A2: Capacity Building for
                                                0.7         0.7            100
             SENELEC
             A3: Technical Assistance to
                                                1.7         1.7            100
             SENELEC
             B1: Communication and
             project monitoring and             0.5         0.3            60
             evaluation
             B2: Energy Sector Long Term
                                                1.1         1.7            155
             Development
             B3: Capacity Building for the
                                                0.7         0.2            29
             Energy Sector Institutions
             Refinancing of Project
                                                2.3         2.3            100
             Preparation facility (PPF)
             Unallocated (Contingencies)        0.1          0             0
             TOTAL                              16.6        6.9            42



      (b) Financing
                                                Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
               Source of Funds
                                                 (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                millions)   millions)
     Borrower                                     0.90         0.7         78
     International Development
                                                    15.70         6.2            39
     Association (IDA)




                                               23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component



Part A: Support to SENELEC

Component Al: SENELEC- Generation, Transmission, Distribution Facilities

      Commissioning of Kounoune Power

      Procurement documentation for the Cap des Biches power station

Component A2: Technical Assistance to SENELEC

      Generation and Transmission Master Plan

      Distribution Master Plan


Part B: Institutional Strengthening and Long Term Development of the Energy
Sector

      Options for private sector participation in the power sector of Senegal

      SENELEC unbundling documentation

      Minutes of Stakeholders’ Workshop




                                           24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                    (including assumptions for the analysis)


KOUNOUNE I IPP
       Plant nominal capacity          67.5 MW
       Plant capacity factor           70%
       Generation                       414 GWh
       Use            1st year         70%
                      2nd year         80%
                      3rd year?20th   100%
       Station use &
       T&D losses                      18%
       Average tariff                    18 Uscents/kWh
       Estimated cost                    80 US$ Million
       O&M                              3% of invest costs
       HFO price                         70 US$/bbl
       bbl                              159 liters
       Fuel use                         250 gr/kWh
                                                                  Station use  Net Sales Net Sales Net Benefits
           Invest. Cost O&M Costs Fuel CostTotal Costs Generation T&D Losses (GWh) (US$ M)           (US$ M)
           (US$ M)       (US$M)     (US$)    (US$ M)    (GWh)     (GWh)
      2006            16          0        0         16         0           0           0          0         ?16
      2007            40          0        0         40         0           0           0          0         ?40
      2008            24        2.4       32         58       290          52         238         43         ?16
      2009                      2.4       36         39       331          60         272         49          10
      2010                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2011                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2012                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2013                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2014                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2015                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2016                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2017                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2018                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2019                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2020                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2021                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2022                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2023                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2024                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2025                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2026                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2027                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13
      2028                      2.4       46         48       414          75         339         61          13

PV, NPV (US$ Million)                           $391.92                        $2,303.10    $414.56       $22.64
                                                                                                       
IRR                                                                                                         14%




                                                              25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


       (b) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Thanh Lu Ha                Senior Program Assistant            AFTEG
Ignatius A. Menezes        Consultant                          AFRVP
Supervision/ICR
Fabrice Karl Bertholet     Sr Financial Analyst               AFTEG
Moez Cherif                Sr Energy Econ.                    AFTEG
Bourama Diaite             Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPC
Anta Tall Diallo           Program Assistant                  AFCF1
Saidou Diop                Sr Financial Management Specia     AFTFM
Philippe J-P. Durand       Program Coordinator                AFTEG
Alain Ebobisse             Chief Investment Officer           CNGIV
Maimouna Mbow Fam          Sr Financial Management Specia     AFTFM
Kwawu Mensan Gaba          Lead Energy Specialist             SASDE
Stephan Claude Frederic
                           Senior Energy Specialist            AFTEG
Garnier
Thanh Lu Ha                Senior Program Assistant            AFTEG
Fatouma Toure Ibrahima
                           Senior Financial Specialist         AFTEG
Wane
Amadou Konare              Sr Environmental Spec.             AFTEN
Michel E. Layec            Lead Energy Economist              LCSEG
Sunil W. Mathrani          Senior Energy Specialist           AFTEG
Cheikh A. T. Sagna         E T Consultant                     AFTCS
Ibrah Rahamane Sanoussi    Procurement Specialist             AFTPC
Awa Seck                   Senior Economist                   AFTEG
Seynabou Thiaw Seye        Program Assistant                  AFCF1
Fily Sissoko               Lead Financial Management Spec     AFTFM
Pierre C. Vieillescazes    Consultant                         MNSED
Eric Jean Yoboue           Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPC
Noureddine Bouzaher        ICR Primary Author/Consultant      AFTEG


       (c) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                                     0.34
  FY02                                            1                        2.94
  FY03                                           16                      110.71
  FY04                                           20                      155.07


                                            26
  FY05                          58   345.06
  FY06                                 0.00
  FY07                                 0.00
  FY08                                 0.00
                  Total:        95   614.12
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                 0.00
  FY02                                 0.00
  FY03                                 0.00
  FY04                                 0.00
  FY05                                 0.00
  FY06                          38   131.74
  FY07                          38   181.29
  FY08                          28    90.07
  FY09                           6     0.00
  FY10
  FY11
                  Total:    110      403.10




                           27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
                                      (if any)

Not applicable.




                                        28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                                 (if any)

Not applicable.




                                   29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

I – Conclusions of the Borrower’s ICR.
(The full contribution in the original French language is given below)

“Difficulties experienced and flaws of the project

             Quality of the project indicators

Project performance indicators do not measure the true performance of the project. They
describe the results of SENELEC well but do not address the use of human and financial
resources of the project nor with its timely implementation.

             Difficulties to adapt to World Bank procedures

Often World Bank procedures for the preparation of bidding documents appeared too
complex for the people in charge of the project, particularly within SENELEC, used as
they were to their own bidding documents format.

Several bidding documents were rejected because they did not contain the correct
information or the format used was not the proper one.

             Problems encountered by the Project Management Unit (PMU)

During the first years of implementation, the PMU lacked sufficient accounting and
support staff to monitor the components of the project. The lack of knowledge of Bank
procedures made things worse. The change of management that took place in 2009
improved the situation significantly.

In addition, the lack of definition of fiduciary responsibilities between SENELEC and the
coordination unit had a negative impact on the project. The 80% allocation of the Credit
resources to SENELEC was not accompanied with a proportionate transfer of
responsibilities in terms of monitoring and reporting.

             Lack of communication with the donor

During the first phase of the project from December 2005 to July 2007, no mean of
communication with the donor was available, except for letters that often went
unanswered.

The appointment of an energy expert in Dakar has been helpful because it is with this
expert’s presence in the field that project implementation really started.




                                            30
II – Full Borrower Contribution (see below)



     République du Sénégal
Un Peuple – Un But – Une Foi
               ______
   Ministère de la Coopération
Internationale, des Transports Aériens
  des Infrastructures et de l’Energie
              ______
Projet de Renforcement du Secteur
   de l’Electricité (PRESELEC)


Rapport d’achèvement du Projet de Renforcement de l’Efficacité du Secteur de
l’Electricité (Preselec) : Crédit IDA 4060/SE

    I.       Introduction :

Afin d’accompagner le Sénégal dans sa stratégie de garantir aux populations un service
électrique de qualité aux moindres coûts dans le but de soutenir la croissance économique
et la politique de réduction de la pauvreté, l’Association Internationale pour le
Développement (IDA) a mis à la disposition du Gouvernement un crédit (IDA 4060/SE)
de 10,5 millions de DTS (droits de tirage spéciaux) soit 15,71 millions de dollars US aux
taux de change initiaux, et une garantie de 6,5 millions de dollars US au profit de la
centrale privée de Kounoune 1, en 2005, à travers le Projet de Renforcement du Secteur
de l’Electricité (PRESELEC).

Ce projet approuvé par le Conseil d’Administration de la Banque Mondiale, le 17 Mai
2005, est l’objet de la convention de financement signée le 28 Juin 2005.

L’entrée en vigueur du PRESELEC est intervenue le 08 Décembre 2005 et la date de
clôture du projet était fixée au 31 Janvier 2009.

Un second accord spécifique précisant le programme à financer, les objectifs spécifiques
que Senelec devait atteindre et les indicateurs de performance a été validé entre la
Banque Mondiale et Senelec en 2008.

Le 27 Janvier 2009, le Gouvernement du Sénégal a demandé et a obtenu une
prolongation du projet jusqu’au 31 Décembre 2010 et une réallocation des ressources du
projet à d’autres investissements.

Le crédit IDA 4060/SE mis en place se décompose en quatre parties :

        La partie A : Appui à la SENELEC, d'un montant de 11,46 millions $ US. Elle
         concerne les actions prioritaires devant permettre à la SENELEC de renforcer sa


                                           31
        capacité de production, et de remettre en état les parties critiques de son système
        de transport et de distribution.
       La partie B : Développement institutionnel, d'un montant de 1 million $ US. Elle
        prend en charge les actions urgentes pour la réforme du secteur de l'électricité et
        le renforcement de capacités des institutions chargées de la gestion et de
        l'administration du secteur de l'énergie.
       Les crédits non alloués, d'un montant de 1,25 millions $ US, qui devaient
        permettre, également, de prendre en charge certaines actions prioritaires non
        prévues aux parties A et B.
       La ligne Refinancement du PPF, d'un montant de 2 millions $ US. Elle prend en
        charge le remboursement de dépenses déjà supportées par SENELEC dans la
        mise en oeuvre du projet Kounoune 1.
…/…
  II.      Objectifs du projet

L'objectif principal du programme est d'aider le Sénégal à fournir des services
énergétiques fiables et rentables dans le but de soutenir la stratégie de croissance
économique et la réduction de la pauvreté. Pour atteindre cet objectif, le Sénégal, à
travers le Programme, devait assurer, dans la première phase :

     une meilleure disponibilité et fiabilité de la distribution de l'électricité à des coûts
       plus compétitifs ;
     la réforme du sous-secteur de l’électricité et le renforcement des institutions
       chargées de sa gouvernance.

Pour atteindre cette cible, l’allocation suivante a été initialement approuvée.

Catégories                                               Montants alloués (DTS)
   1. Travaux partie A (A1)                             5 700 000
   2. Biens et équipements                              400 000
                 Partie A (A2)                          100 000
                 Partie A (A3)                          100 000
                 Partie B (B2)                          200 000
   3. Services de consultants                           2 030 000
                 Partie A (A3)                          1 550 000
                 Partie B (B1)                          140 000
                 Partie B2 (B2)                         340 000
   4. Renforcement de capacités partie A (A2)           160 000
   5. Dépenses de fonctionnement                        40 000
   6. Refinancement du PPF                              1 340 000
   7. Ressources non allouées                           830 000
TOTAL                                                   10 500 000




                                             32
En décembre 2010, une partie des ressources initialement allouées au Projet a été annulée
soient 6.400.000 DTS. Les ressources restantes ont fait l’objet d’une réallocation qui se
présente comme suit :

                                       Amount of the
                                                           Amount of the      Amount of
                                       Credit by
                                                           Credit by          the Credit
                                       Category Pre
                                                           Category Post      by Category
       Category                        Re-Allocation
                                                           Cancellation       Post Re
                                       and
                                                                              Allocation
                                       Cancellation
                                                           (SDR)              (SDR)
                                       (SDR)
1      Works under:
          (a) Part A.1                 5, 400,000          0                  0
2      Goods under:
          (a) Part A.1                 1, 000,000          0                  0
          (b) Part B.1                 85,000              85,000             0
          (c) Part B.3                 170,000             170,000            100,000
3      Consultants’ services under:
          (a) Part A.3                 1, 090,000          1, 090,000         1, 090,000
          (b) Part B.1                 100,000             100,000            100,000
          (c) Part B.2                 600,000             600,000            965,000
          (d) Part B.3                 210,000             210,000            0
4      Training and Travels under:
          (a) Part B.1                 50,000              50,000             50,000
          (b) Part B.2                 100,000             100,000            100,000
          (c) Part B.3                 50,000              50,000             50,000
5      Operating Costs (Part B)        80,000              80,000             80,000
6      Refunding of Project
       Preparation Advance             1, 490,343          1, 490,343         1, 490,343
7      Unallocated                     74,657              74,657             74,657
       TOTAL                           10, 500,000         4, 100,000         4, 100,000


L’annulation d’une partie des ressources (6,4miilions de DTS), sur la demande du
Gouvernement du Sénégal, s’est traduite par une baisse substantielle de la dotation
initiale qui passe de 10,5 millions de DTS à 4,1 millions de DTS.

La mise en œuvre du projet a été assurée par deux structures à savoir : la Senelec qui
assurait la mise en ouvre des activités de la composante A en relation avec la Banque et
l’Unité de Coordination, mise en place au niveau du Ministère en charge de l’Energie, qui
assurait la mise en œuvre des activités de la composante B.

II.1. Les objectifs de la partie A se déclinent selon 3 sous composantes :

                 A1 : Equipement de production, transport et distribution



                                           33
Cette sous composante avait pour objet l’accompagnement de la construction de centrales
thermiques par des opérateurs privés, la réalisation d’équipements de distribution ainsi
que la réhabilitation d’équipements de transport.

                  A2 : Renforcement de capacités

Cette sous composante visait le renforcement des capacités de la Senelec en matière de
préparation de ses plans directeurs (production/transport/distribution).

                  A3 : Assistance Technique

Cette sous composante visait l’appui à la préparation et l’exécution d’un programme de
formation du personnel de Senelec.

Parallèlement, Senelec s’était engagée à atteindre les objectifs suivants à la fin du
programme :
                      Augmenter les ventes d’électricité qui devaient passer de 1538
                       GWh en 2004 à 1875 GWh en 2008, soit une croissance de 20 %
                       sur la période ;
                      Signer le contrat d’achat d’électricité de Kounoune II au plus tard,
                       le
                      31 décembre 2006 ;
                      Réduire les délestages à 8 GWh en 2007 contre de 14 GWh
                       constatés en 2004, soit une baisse de 40 % ;
                      Réduire de 7 % à horizon 2007, les coûts variables de la production
                       et d’achat d’électricité ;
                      Réduire les pertes techniques et non techniques à 15,5% en 2007
                       (en pourcentage de la production nette) contre 17,5 % en 2003, soit
                       une amélioration du rendement de 2 points ;
                      Mettre en œuvre le partenariat public/privé pour la SENELEC avant
                       le 31 décembre 2007.

II.2. Les objectifs de la partie B se déclinent selon 2 sous composantes

                  B1 : Renforcement des capacités de l’emprunteur

Cette sous composante était destinée au renforcement des capacités de l’emprunteur en
matière d’exécution, de suivi et d’évaluation de projet par : a) la mise au point d’un
système de suivi et évaluation destiné au Ministère en charge de l’énergie ; b) un appui en
matière d’exécution, gestion, coordination, administration, suivi et évaluation du projet, y
compris les audits financiers et techniques, et en matière d’évaluation des effets sociaux
et environnementaux et de réduction desdits effets ; c) réalisation d’études pour le
renforcement des capacités long terme du secteur de l’énergie.


                                             34
                       B2 : Etudes des options de partenariat privé/public pour la Senelec

Cette sous composante devait aider à soutenir la réflexion sur les réformes structurelles
de Senelec.

    III.     Résultats et impacts du projet

III.1. Résultats composante « A » du Projet

III.1.1 Les indicateurs de performance

Indicateurs                   Objectifs            Réalisations           Observations

Les ventes d’électricité en   1875 GWh             1806 en 2007           Accroissement de 34%
2008                                               2069 en 2008           contre un objectif de 20%
                                                                          sur la période 2004-2008.
Accord sur le power           31 Décembre 2006     2007                   Le projet de kounoune II
purchase agreement de                                                     n’a pas été mis en œuvre
Kounoune II                                                               du fait la crise pétrolière
                                                                          de 2008
Délestages                    8 GWh en 2005        29,74 GWh              Le niveau de délestage
                                                   92, 8 GWh en 2006      constaté est largement
                                                   75,8 GWh en 2007       supérieur au niveau visé
 Coût variable de             Réduction de 7%      -Production : 47,9 à   Sur la période une
production et d’achat                              61,1 F/kWh F/kWh       augmentation de 27% du
d’énergie                                                                 coût variable est
                                                                          constatée contre un
                                                                          objectif de baisse de 7%
                                                                          par rapport à 2004.
Pertes techniques et non      15,5% en 2007        18,8% en 2007          Le pertes techniques et
techniques                                                                non techniques ont
                                                                          augmenté sur la période
                                                                          3,3 points contre face à
                                                                          l’objectif de baisse de 2
                                                                          points par rapport a son
                                                                          niveau de 2003
Ouverture du Capital de       31 Décembre 2007     2010
Senelec au privé

                Les Ventes d’électricité

L’accroissement des Ventes est dû à l’augmentation de la clientèle de l’ordre de 10% par
an. Cet accroissement de la clientèle est à conjuguer avec un taux d’équipement des
ménages en croissance.

                Les délestages

Le niveau de délestages n’a pas baissé comme souhaité en raison :
              des retards dans la mise service du projet de Kounoune 1 (67,5 MW) ;



                                                 35
                de la non signature du projet Kounoune II due en partie à la
       délocalisation de la centrale sur le site de Kaolack et du surcoût relatif au génie
       civil et à la partie électrique ;
                de la baisse de l’hydrologie de Manantali.

             Les pertes techniques et non techniques

Les pertes techniques et non techniques ont augmenté du fait de la recrudescence de la
fraude. En revanche, la mise en œuvre des grands projets de Senelec dans les réseaux de
Transport et de Distribution a contribué à réduire les pertes techniques.

             Les Coûts Variables

Le coût variable a augmenté en raison :
               du retard dans la mise en service de Kounoune I et Kounoune II ;
               de la baisse de l’hydrologie de Manantali ;
               de la location de groupes de 50 MW très coûteux en 2005 et 2006 ;
               de l’utilisation de centrales de pointe coûteuse en quasi-base alors que
       ces centrales doivent être utilisées que deux heures par jour ;
               de l’augmentation de près de 400% des coûts de combustible ;
               des arrêts de la centrale privée GTI.

Concomitamment, le prix moyen de cession de l’électricité a accru de 20% passant de
78,5 F/kWh en 2007 à 99,9 F/kWh en 2008.

             Privatisation de Senelec

La Senelec n’a pas trouvé de partenaire privé malgré les efforts déployés dans ce sens.

III.1.2 Exécution

Dans cette partie, nous passons en revue les projets d’investissements pour préciser leurs
états d’avancement et les obstacles rencontrés dans leur exécution.

             Appui aux efforts pour attirer les investisseurs privés

S’agissant du projet de centrale Kounoune 1 d’une capacité de 67,5 MW, la Banque a
mis en place une garantie partielle de risque et un financement rétroactif sur des actions
de préparation du projet que Senelec avait préfinancé. Les dépenses ont été remboursées
à hauteur de 478 000 dollars, le 25 Avril 2007.

             Réhabilitation du réseau de Distribution et des Lignes de Transport

En ce qui concerne les projets d’infrastructures (lignes de Transport, de Distribution), le
taux de réalisation est resté très faible depuis la mise en vigueur du projet.



                                            36
Le 25 Janvier 2007, lors d’une réunion Etat-Banque Mondiale, en raison des difficultés
que Senelec rencontrait pour satisfaire la demande et des nombreux délestages qui s’en
sont suivis, la Senelec a souhaité la réaffectation du financement réservé à ce volet au
programme de réhabilitation de ses principales centrales de production.

Une réunion de recadrage s’est tenue le 27 Juillet 2007 dans les locaux de Senelec et un
plan d’actions a été défini avec les principaux acteurs pour atteindre des objectifs à court
terme.
Le programme d’investissement se résumait depuis cette date à la réhabilitation des
centrales 301,302, 303 et la réhabilitation des lignes de transport de Senelec.

Les DAO sur ces projets ont été transmis respectivement le 26 Octobre et le 22
Novembre 2007 à la Banque Mondiale pour ANO.

Une première réunion d’échanges s’est tenue au siège de la Banque Mondiale, en Janvier
2008, pour recueillir les observations sur ces TDRs. Tenant compte de ces observations,
Senelec a soumis à la Banque Mondiale de nouvelles versions de ces TDRs, les 07 et 13
février 2008.

Une version des TDRS sur la réhabilitation du réseau de Transport a été transmise le 27
Octobre 2008.

Cependant, vu que le coût du projet de réhabilitation de la centrale Cap des Bîches n’était
pas connu, la Banque Mondiale et Senelec ont pris, d’un commun accord, la décision de
suspendre tous les autres projets d’infrastructures jusqu’au dépouillement des offres sur
la réhabilitation du groupe 302. Une fois que le coût de l’offre connu, les autres
consultations pourraient se poursuivre.

Une version des TDRS sur la réhabilitation des groupes a été transmise le 22 Mai 2008.
Un premier avis de non objection sur la réhabilitation des centrales a été donné le 01
Juillet 2008 et l’appel d’offres pour ce projet a été lancé le 11 août 2008 en trois lots.

La remise des offres a eu lieu le 12 novembre 2008. Malheureusement, aucune
soumission n’a été enregistrée pour le lot 1. S’agissant des lots 2 et 3 deux soumissions
ont été reçues avec des écarts de prix très importants. La Banque Mondiale n’a pas
donné son ANO sur ce projet et a souhaité la reprise du dossier.

Le dossier d’appel d’offres a été relancé et Senelec a reçu plusieurs offres. Le rapport de
la commission technique étant transmis, la Senelec a obtenu l’avis de non objection de la
Banque.

Cependant, la durée des travaux étant de 12 mois, il n’était pas possible d’adjuger le
contrat, car la date de clôture du projet était prévue le 31 Décembre 2010. Il en a résulté
un arrêt du projet qui, en définitive, n’a pas été exécuté et les ressources qui lui étaient
dédiées ont été annulées sur demande du Gouvernement du Sénégal.




                                            37
                  Plans Directeurs de la Senelec

Cette composante du Preselec concerne le financement de deux études de schémas
Directeurs à l’horizon 2030.

Le schéma directeur production transport et distribution a été réalisé par SNC LAVALIN
aux coûts suivants :
                   Schéma Directeur Distribution et Système d’information
                     géographique : 344 398 Euros.
                   Schéma Directeur Production-Transport : 563 400 $CAN.

                  Monitoring environnemental

Ce volet n’a pas été exécuté par la Senelec.

III.2. Résultats de la composante « B » du Projet

Indicateurs                        Résultats                Commentaires
   1) Développement à long         Réalisé                  Les travaux de séparation
      terme et perspectives                                 comptable et de dégroupage des
                                                            activités de la Senelec en trois
                                                            filiales Production-Transport-
                                                            Distribution/vente ont été
                                                            réalisés.
   2) Suivi évaluation de projet   Partiellement réalisé    Le logiciel de gestion de projet
                                                            n’a pas été acquis. Toutefois,
                                                            l’unité de gestion a eu recours à
                                                            un cabinet d’assistance
                                                            comptable.
   3) Renforcement des             Partiellement Réalisé    Un plan de renforcement de
      capacités de l’emprunteur                             capacité a été exécuté en 2010 au
                                                            profit des différentes directions
                                                            du Ministère en charge de
                                                            l’Energie. Toutefois les
                                                            renforcements de capacité de la
                                                            commission de régulation et de la
                                                            structure qui avait en charge la
                                                            conduite de la réforme
                                                            institutionnelle de Senelec n’ont
                                                            pas été exécutés.

Les dépenses réalisées sur les fonds du projet au titre de la partie B s’élèvent à
860.261.085 F CFA contre une dotation de 1.075.154.707 F CFA, soit un taux de
décaissement de 80%.

Sous-composante 1 « Biens équipements »

Les dépenses réalisées au titre de la composante « biens et équipements » se chiffrent à
72.586.613 FCFA. Elles correspondent à des acquisitions de matériel roulant et de
matériel informatique au profit du Ministère en charge de l’Energie et des structures


                                                  38
administratives sous tutelles. Ces acquisitions ont été effectuées au cours des années 2006
et 2007.

Sous-composante 2 « Services Consultant »

Les dépenses au titre de cette composante se chiffrent à 638.077.369 FCFA. Elles
concernent les dépenses de suivi évaluation à hauteur de 75.856.605 FCFA et les
dépenses relatives à l’évolution institutionnelle de la Senelec à hauteur de 562.220.764
FCFA.

En effet, afin de piloter la réforme de la Senelec, le Gouvernement avait mis en place un
Groupe Technique Ad hoc (GTAH). Les dépenses relatives à ses travaux ont été prises en
charge par le PRESELEC. Il s’agit notamment du recrutement d’un consultant individuel
qui a accompagné le GTAH et le consultant RTE France, qui a réalisé les études et
travaux relatifs au dégroupage des activités de la Senelec.

Egalement, un consultant individuel a été recruté dans le cadre de la rédaction de la lettre
de politique sectorielle adoptée par le Gouvernement en 2008.

Compte tenu de la situation particulièrement difficile que traverse le secteur de
l’électricité, le Gouvernement a décidé d’arrêter le processus devant conduire au
dégroupage des activités de la Senelec en trois filiales avec la participation du privé dans
le capital de l’entreprise.

Toutefois, les travaux de séparation comptable et de délimitation des frontières de la
production, du transport et de la distribution déjà réalisés et validés seront mis en œuvre.
Ils permettront d’améliorer la transparence des coûts et faciliteront l’identification des
niches d’inefficacité dans la chaine de valeur de la Senelec.

Sous-composante 3 « Renforcement de capacités »

Les dépenses au titre de cette composante se chiffrent à 109.116.002 FCFA. Elles
correspondent à des formations ponctuelles réalisées en 2008 à hauteur de 13.229.844
FCFA et à la mise en œuvre, en 2010, d’un plan de renforcement de capacité plus global
pour le Ministère et ses structures. Les dépenses au titre de ce chapitre se chiffrent à
82.564.693 FCFA.

Le plan de renforcement de capacités a été au bénéfice du personnel d’encadrement et du
personnel d’appui du Ministère en charge de l’Energie, de la Direction de l’Electricité, de
la Direction des Hydrocarbures et Combustible Domestiques, de la Direction de
l’Economie et de la Maitrise de l’Energie et du Comité National des Hydrocarbures.

Le renforcement de capacité a porté, entre autres, sur :
      la planification opérationnelle et la gestion des programmes publics ;
      le suivi évaluation des programmes publics et systèmes d’information ;
      le management budgétaire public ;


                                            39
        le système d’archivage électronique ;
        l’économie et management de l’aval pétrolier ;
        la gestion financière de projets ;
        la communication ;
        la gestion des ressources humaines.

Le renforcement de capacité prévu au profit de la Commission de Régulation du Secteur
de l’Electricité n’a été mise en œuvre par la structure concernée.

Sous-composante 4 « Dépenses de fonctionnement »
Les dépenses de cette composante se chiffrent 40.481.101 FCFA.

   IV.     Difficultés et insuffisance du projet

             Qualité des Indicateurs du projet

Les indicateurs définis pour l’évaluation du projet ne traduisent pas les performances
réelles du projet. Ils décrivent bien les résultats de la Senelec mais ne s’intéressent pas à
l’utilisation des ressources humaines et financières du projet ni à la réalisation du projet,
dans les délais impartis.

             Difficultés de s’adapter aux procédures de la Banque Mondiale

Souvent les procédures de la Banque Mondiale en matière de préparation de DAO
semblaient trop compliquées pour les responsables du projet, notamment au niveau de la
Senelec, habitués à leurs propres formats d’appels d’offres.

Plusieurs dossiers ont été rejetés car les rubriques étaient mal renseignées ou le dossier
utilisé n’était pas conforme au type d’appel d’offres.

             Difficultés de l’unité de gestion du projet

Pendant les premières années de l’exécution du projet, l’unité de gestion a été confrontée
à un manque de ressources humaines comptable, personnel d’appui pour assurer le suivi
et l’évaluation des composantes du projet allié à un défaut de maîtrise des procédures de
la Banque. Ce point a connu une nette amélioration avec le changement intervenu dans le
management du projet en 2009.

Par ailleurs, le défaut de définition des responsabilités fudiciaires entre la Senelec et
l’unité de coordination a négativement impacté sur le fonctionnement du projet. En effet,
la mise à la disposition de la Senelec de 80% des ressources du crédit n’a pas été
accompagnée de transfert de responsabilités en terme de suivi et de reporting.

             Manque de Communication avec le Bailleur de fonds




                                             40
Dans la première phase du projet de Décembre 2005 à Juillet 2007 aucun moyen de
communication avec le bailleur n’était disponible en dehors des lettres qui restaient le
plus souvent sans réponse.

La nomination d’un expert Energie à Dakar a été une action salutaire car c’est grâce à la
présence de cet expert que l’exécution du projet a effectivement démarré.




                                           41
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

      Project Appraisal Document
      Implementation Status Reports
      Development Credit Agreements
      Project Agreement
      Minutes of the Stakeholders’ workshop




                                        43
