Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H501-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Strengthening Institutions Development Policy Grant) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 7, 2009 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 7, 2009, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
OF AFGHANISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has 
decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the 
Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby 
agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twenty three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 23,500,000) (
the “Grant “ or the “Financing”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollar. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
A
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
6.02. Th
e
Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 Pashtunistan 
Watt 
 Kabul 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
Facsimile: 
 93-20-210-3258 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
 
/s/ Mohammed Omar Zakhilwal 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ Mariam J. Sherman 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-4- 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Grant Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1.  
The Recipient has: (i) submitted to Parliament a medium-term fiscal framework 
budget statement for discussion as part of the Solar Year 1388 budget discussion, 
which includes expenditure estimates based on reasonable approximations of the 
medium term cost impact of pay and grading reforms; and (ii) established and 
appointed members to a joint MOF 
–
IARCSC technical working group on pay 
and grading reform implementation. 
2. 
The Recipient has completed the reorganization of MOF’s budget department 
along the ANDS priority sectors with a view to ensuring that the budget becomes 
an implementation instrument for the ANDS and is approved by the Recipient’s 
cabinet and Parliament in a timely manner. 
3. 
The Recipient has: (i) issued a Presidential decree approving an amendment to 
the Procurement Law providing for, 
inter alia
,
the reinstatement of transparency 
of the procurement process with respect to low value procurement; and (ii) 
reissued a circular restoring ARDS’ procurement oversight. 
4. 
The Recipient has published in its official gazette a new Civil Servants Law 
which includes a pay and grading scale. 
5. 
The Recipient has increased the number of direct deposits under its Verified 
Payroll Plan from 50,801 civil servants at the end of SY1386 to at least 95,000 
by the end of SY1387. 
6. 
The Recipient’s Ministry of Finance has issued a report on its assessment of the 
provincial budgeting pilot with a view to developing an institutional position on 
sub-national financing reform. 
7. 
The Recipient’s cabinet has publicly announced the Recipient’s commitment to 
the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). 
8. 
The Recipient’s Ministry of Finance has established within its internal audit 
department: (i) a fraud investigation unit with a qualified auditor and training 
program for staff; and (ii) an information technology (IT) audit unit. 
 
Page  6
-5- 
Section II. 
Availability of Grant Proceeds
A. General
.
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Grant Amounts
.
The Grant shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.   
 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts
.
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
 
1. 
the Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain the 
following two deposit accounts (“Deposit Accounts”) on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank:   
 
(a)  
a deposit account in Dollar (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account”); and  
 
(b) 
a deposit account in Afghani (“Local Currency Deposit Account”).   
 
2. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account.  Upon each deposit of 
an amount of the Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the 
Recipient shall deposit an equivalent amount into the Local Currency Deposit 
Account for the financing of expenditures in the Recipient’s development budget. 
 
D. Audit
.
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Grant shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was used to make a payment 
for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Page  7
-6- 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. Closing 
Date
.
The Closing Date is August 31, 2010. 
Page  8
-7- 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions
1. 
“Afghani” means the currency of the Recipient.  
 
2. 
“ANDS” means the Afghanistan National Development Strategy adopted by the 
Recipient as its medium-term development plan in April 2008, which is also its 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.   
 
3. 
“ARDS” means the Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services, a 
central procurement facilitation service under the supervision of the Recipient’s 
Ministry of Economy. 
 
4. 
“Civil Servants Law” means the Recipient’s Civil Servants Law No. 32 of  
June 16, 2008. 
 
5. 
“Deposit Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the 
Local Currency Deposit Account.  
 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or sub-groups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525  
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and 
watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Page  10
-9- 
Recipient or other recipient of the Grant proceeds, without the Recipient 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
 
7. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1(a) 
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“IARCSC” means the Recipient’s Independent Administrative Reform and Civil 
Service Commission established and operating under the Civil Service Law,  
No. 861 dated September 11, 2005. 
 
10. 
“Local Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1(b) 
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“Parliament” means the Recipient’s 
Wolesi Jirga
 and 
Meshrano Jirga
.
13. 
“Procurement Law” means the Recipient’s Law No. 865, dated 
 
October 25, 2005, as amended on January 19, 2009. 
 
14. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 16, 2009, from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
15. 
“Solar Year” means the Recipient’s solar year, commencing on March 21 of each 
calendar year and ending on March 20 of the following calendar year.  
 
16. 
“Verified Payroll Plan” means a MOF initiative to provide assurance that 
payrolls submitted by the budget units are supported by genuine employment 
contracts, are prepared accurately, and are disbursed to the individual identified 
in the payroll summary. 
 
Page  11
-10- 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended through  
October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Grant of an advance made by the
 
Association or the 
Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Grant until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  12
-11- 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Grant.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Grant is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Grant is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8(c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and 
its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.”
 
