Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:47114 
Operation Name 
Afghanistan Development Policy Grant 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);General industry and 
trade sector (20%);Central government administration (20%);Sub-
national government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P107921 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
December 31, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 5, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 28, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Afghanistan continues to face simultaneous challenges of building a peaceful and conflict free society 
and reconstructing vital infrastructure of the country while creating economic growth and reducing 
poverty. Developing functioning and accountable state institutions that are able to deliver security, 
stability and social and economic services demanded by citizens are imperative to achieving these 
objectives.  The social, economic, and political environment in Afghanistan remains complex. It is 
severely affected by the ongoing violent Taliban insurgency and the heavy reliance on narcotics 
production and trade, as well as the challenges of weak governance and rule of law. 
 
Given the need to provide continued reform support through the government core budget and in absence 
of an implementation mechanism for the Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS) the 
Development Policy Grant (DPG) will support targeted reforms in the Ministry of Finance (MOF).  The 
grant will provide US$30 million in budget support, assisting the government with crucial discretionary 
funds to address expenditure pressures as a result of shocks (e.g. global food or fuel price increases, as 
well as the deteriorating security situation). Recently revenue under-performance and spending pressures 
(including for food-allowances for civil servants and increased fuel subsidies) resulted in a significant 
reduction in cash balances that will force the Government of Afghanistan (GOA) to adjust medium-term 
spending downward starting with the 1388 budget.  Beside the wish to address important financing 
needs of the GOA the main function of the DPG will be to strengthen the macroeconomic and fiduciary 
environment for assistance through the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), the World 
Bank and other development partners.  
 
Between 2004 and 2007 t
he
government’s reform program - reflected in the Interim-ANDS and 
Compact -- was supported by a series of World Bank budget support —
the Programmatic Support for 
Institution Building (PSIB) I-III.
 The PSIB series focused on supporting reforms in the areas of public 
administration and fiscal management, with the objective to build an accountable and effective state.  
Over the period of World Bank budget support the reform implementation has been overall satisfactory, 
although uneven at times. In many areas PSIB supported reforms were successful, warranting the 
continuation of budget support. Progress has been achieved in a number of reform areas, for example 
Page  2
macroeconomic management and public financial management, while implementation was moving 
somewhat slower in others, for example public administration reforms and private and financial sector 
reforms. 
 
The DPG will allow the World Bank to stay engaged in a policy dialogue during this critical time 
reinforcing reforms in those areas with a proven track record from previous World Bank budget support 
and investment projects.  The reform program supported by the DPG is ambitious given the not 
necessarily favorable reform environment in the run-up to the planned Presidential election in 2009 (and 
election for Parliament in 2010).   
 
There are a number of key risks which may affect the implementation of
 the GOA’s reform program, 
including the current security challenges, partly due to the large illicit narcotics industry, and the 
government’s weak institutional capacity and associated limited absorption capacity.  Nevertheless, the 
GOA is committed to implementing the reform agenda. While these reforms are difficult under the best 
of circumstances, the reform environment in Afghanistan continues to be particularly complex and high 
level political attention being increasingly absorbed with the security situation and the planned elections. 
Therefore expectations and the specific reform program supported by this operation are calibrated to fit 
this context.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The DPG will have the objective to help maintain macroeconomic stability and assure fiduciary 
standards which will allow World Bank and ARTF resources continued to be channeled through the 
Afghan core budget.  For this reasons the focus of this budget support operation will be to sustain and 
deepen reforms in the MOF in line with the MOF Strategic Plan 1384-1389.  It will support key 
components of the government’s reform program, in particular in the commitment to fiscal sustainability 
and improved fiscal and economic governance. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The DPG will be a stand-alone operation, acknowledging the high level of expected volatility over the 
upcoming two election years. In order to allow for continuity and predictability of funding for the 
Afghan government this stand-alone operation will be imbedded in a medium-term reform program, 
with indicative triggers for a follow-up operation.   
 
The DPG will support the GOA in maintaining reforms in areas with a proven track record, but in an 
increasingly uncertain environment.  The grant would provide US$30 million in budget support to assist 
the GOA with discretionary resources allowing them to adjust to external shocks (e.g. global food or 
fuel price increases) as the government tries to meet its ambitious development goals.  The DPG will be 
mainly focused on MOF reforms.  Given the large IDA and ARTF portfolio the supported reform 
program has the objectives to safeguard and deepen previous reform achievements in PFM, budget 
process, and fiduciary standards.  
 
Under the overarching theme of fiscal and economic governance the following components of the MOF 
Strategic Plan 1384-1389 will be supported by the DPG operation: 
Page  3
1. 
Ensuring the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework, strengthening fiscal policy, 
and improving public financial management;  
2. 
Increasing the pace and quality of public administration reform and strengthening sub-national 
functions in the MOF; and 
3. 
Increase transparency and accountability in areas of importance to the MOF. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The Grant supports a number of economy-wide policies and institutions.  While the DPG is supporting 
important reforms related to fiscal sustainability and improved fiscal and economic governance, the 
operation itself has a relatively modest scope. It focuses on continuing an ongoing reform process in a 
difficult policy environment rather than on substantial policy changes.  The reforms supported by the 
Grants were reviewed and assessed as unlikely to cause significant effect on the country’s environment, 
forests, and other natural resources.  During implementation, where possible and applicable, the Grant 
will consider the effects that the policy changes in the mining sector may have on the environment. In 
particular, the likelihood and significance of positive or negative effects on environment, natural 
resources, and forestry arising from increased transparency in the mining sector may be explored 
together with the country's institutional capacity for environmental enforcement.  
 
Activities supported by the operation themselves do not generate concerns regarding social or livelihood 
impacts, since they focus on strengthening financial governance. The Grant will attempt, where possible, 
to monitor the potential effects of decisions related to strengthened transparency and accountability and 
to decentralized financial governance on the wider political context.  
 
Since there is no investment component to the operation the Social and Environmental Safeguards 
Framework for IDA-financed projects is not applicable.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
30 
 Total 
30 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Task Team Leader:  
 Birgit Hansl 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
Telephone: 202-458 8131 
 
Fax: 202-522 0356 
 
Email: bhansl@worldbank.org 
 
