Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4714 
Operation Name 
Afghanistan Development Policy Grant 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);General industry and 
trade sector (20%);Central government administration (20%);Sub-
national government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P107921 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Pushtunistan Watt 
Kabul, Afghanistan 
Date PID Prepared 
April 9, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 9, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
June 4, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Afghanistan continues to face simultaneous challenges of forming a peaceful society, 
reconstructing vital infrastructure while creating economic growth and reducing poverty.  
Developing functioning and accountable state institutions that are able to deliver security, 
stability and social and economic services demanded by citizens are imperative to 
achieving these objectives.  The social, economic, and political environment in Afghanistan 
remains complex. It is severely affected by the ongoing violent Taliban insurgency and the 
heavy entrenchment of narcotics production and trade, as well as the challenges of weak 
governance and lack of rule of law.  
Between 2004 and 2007 t
he
government’s reform program - reflected in the Interim-ANDS 
and Compact -- was supported by a series of World Bank development policy support —
the Programmatic Support for Institution Building (PSIB) I-III.
 The PSIB series focused on 
supporting reforms in the areas of public administration and fiscal management, with the 
objective to build an accountable and effective state.  Over the period of World Bank 
development policy support the reform implementation has been overall satisfactory, 
although uneven at times. In many areas PSIB supported reforms were successful, 
warranting the continuation of budget support. Progress has been achieved in a number of 
reform areas, for example macroeconomic management and public financial management, 
while implementation was moving somewhat slower in others, for example public 
administration reforms and private and financial sector reforms. 
Continued development policy support by the World Bank will help the GOA to keep the 
momentum of reform in an increasingly challenging environment approaching elections.  
Corruption risks make donors reluctant to provide funds through government budget 
channels despite improvements in the fiduciary environment.
 
This suggests that a focused 
Page  2
operation from the Bank to safeguard progress to date and to continue fiduciary reforms 
can leverage greater donor 
support through the government’s budget.  The proposed DPG 
will track a reform program in areas that are mainly within the scope of responsibilities of 
the MOF. The MOF established itself in previous years as one of the most progressive 
ministries within the new Afghan state. It achieved success in reinstating the government’s 
revenue mobilization function and introducing appropriate practices for managing public 
finances.   
 
The GOA is committed to implementing the reform agenda.  However, there are a number 
of key risks which may affect the implementation of the government’s reform program, 
including the volatile security situation, and the limited institutional and absorption 
capacity.  While these reforms are difficult under the best of circumstances, the reform 
environment in Afghanistan continues to be particularly complex and high level political 
attention being increasingly absorbed with the security situation and the upcoming 
elections. Therefore expectations and the specific reform program supported by this 
operation are calibrated to fit this context. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overall goal of the operation is to consolidate macroeconomic stability and enhance 
fiduciary standards of the core budget.  The reform program will support improved 
management of public finances, further strengthen fiscal and economic governance, foster 
fiscal responsibility, and introduce aspects of greater transparency and accountability.  In 
particular, the DPG will have the following core development objectives: (i) improve fiscal 
policy, and public financial management, (ii) strengthen public administration reform and 
sub-national administration, and (iii) increase transparency and accountability in public 
finances.  The operation is aiming at complementing other investment and technical 
assistant operations in the areas of public financial management and public administration.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The DPG will be a stand-alone operation, acknowledging the high level of expected 
political volatility over the upcoming two election years. In order to allow for continuity 
and predictability of funding for the Afghan government this stand-alone operation will be 
imbedded in a medium-term reform program.   
The proposed DPG will support the GOA to consolidate previous achievements under the 
ongoing public financial management and public administration reform agenda. This will 
help maintain reforms in areas with a proven track record, but in an increasingly uncertain 
environment.  The focus of the proposed development policy operation will be to sustain 
and deepen reforms in the realm of the MOF and support its role as a government-wide 
reform champion.   The grant will provide US$35 million in development policy support to 
assist the GOA with discretionary resources during a time when Treasury’s cash balances 
are drawn down, allowing the government to react to external shocks address and 
unexpected fiscal demands as the government tries to meet its development goals.  It will 
also have an important role to play in facilitating policy reforms that are crucial for 
Page  3
continued disbursements of ARTF resources. Through the ARTF, the World Bank and 
other development partners provide GOA with significant assistance -Af16 billion or 22 
percent of total operating expenditure in 2008/09- to the core operating budget.  Given the 
large IDA and ARTF portfolio the supported reform program has the objectives to 
safeguard that these substantial recurrent expenditures are spent within a stable 
macroeconomic context and a reasonably strong fiduciary environment.  
The operation has three main components based on the objectives of the proposed DPG and 
the areas supported in Afghanistan’s ongoing reform program.  The reform components 
supported by the DPG are: (1) Improve Fiscal Policy and Planning and Financial 
Management; (2) Strengthen Public Administration Reform and Sub-National 
Administration; and (3) Increase Transparency and Accountability in Public Finances. 
 
4.  Environment, Social and Poverty Aspects 
 
The poverty and social implications of the reform program supported by the Grants were 
reviewed.  Most of the reforms supported by the program are not expected to generate 
concerns regarding social or livelihood impacts.  Overall the operation is likely to 
contribute to positive poverty and social impacts, since they focus on strengthening fiscal 
governance. First, macroeconomic stability and sound fiscal underpinnings will support 
economic growth which could improve the quality of life for all sections of the population.  
Second, proposed measures to improve the management and transparency of public funds 
are likely to have efficiency gains and reduce vulnerabilities to corruption. Improved 
allocative efficiency will better channel resources to priority sectors, like rural 
development, education and health and thus is likely to improve the conditions on the 
community level. Execution efficiency will increase the likelihood of resources and service 
delivery reaching communities, including the poor. The implementation of the Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative could provide an improved investment climate for firms 
in the mining sector and provide employment and livelihood for many Afghans directly 
and indirectly.
 
Third, measures to strengthen public human resource management will 
positively affect through more equitable and less distortional public wages and improved 
public service delivery.   
There are no major environmental concerns noted for the three themes of reforms 
supported by the DPG.  Measures to improve fiscal policy, PFM, to strengthen public 
administration and to promote transparency and good governance are unlikely to have 
negative environmental consequences, and are expected to be environmentally neutral.  
The specific actions supported by the operation focus on establishing legal, administrative, 
and regulatory functions of the State and do not include physical investments or policy 
changes that would significantly affect the environment.  As a result, they are not likely to 
have any significant impact on the country’s environment, forests, and other natural 
resources.  The commitment to the EITI, covered by the third theme, concerns an initiative 
to increase transparency of revenues from the extractive industry. As such it is not likely to 
significantly affect the environment. Nevertheless, this will be continuously monitored. 
Since there is no investment component to the operation the Social and Environmental 
Safeguards Framework for IDA-financed projects is not applicable.  
Page  4
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
35 
 Total 
35 
 
6. Contact point 
Task Team Leader:  
 Birgit Hansl 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
Telephone: 202-458 8131 
 
Fax: 202-522 0356 
 
Email: 
bhansl@worldbank.org
7.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
