                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR00001744



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-H5010)



                                         ON A

                          DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT
                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35 MILLION


                                          TO

                     THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN


    FOR THE STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT

                                     July 18, 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                       Afghanistan - GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                 March 21 – March 20

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 1, 2011)

                          Currency Unit            Afghani
                            US$1.00               AFN 45.55


                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA      Analytical and Advisory Activities     MOE       Ministry F Education
         Afghanistan Financial Management
AFMIS    Information System                     IDA       International Development Association
         Afghanistan National Development                 Independent Directorate of Local
ANDS     Strategy                               IDLG      Government
         Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust
ARTF     Fund                                   O&M       Operations and Maintenance
BOP      Balance of Payments                    P&G       Pay and Grading
DPG      Development Policy Grant               PDO       Program Development Objectives
         Extractive Industries Transparency               Public Finance and Expenditure
EITI     Initiative                             PFEM      Management
FIU      Financial Intelligence Unit            PFM       Public Financial Management
FPU      Fiscal Policy Unit                     PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                 PRTs      Provincial Reconstruction Teams
                                                          Programmatic Support for Institution
GOA      Government of Afghanistan              PSIB      Building
         Independent Administrative Reform
IARCSC   and Civil Service Commission           VPP       Verified Payroll Plan
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IAD      Internal Audit Department




                             Vice President   Isabel Guerrero
                           Country Director   Nicholas Krafft
                            Sector Manager    Joel Hellman
                          ICR Team Leader     Camilo Gomez Osorio
                                                               AFGHANISTAN

                 STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT

                                                                   CONTENTS

Datasheet
       A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates
       C. Ratings Summary
       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff
       F. Results Framework Analysis
       G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
       H. Restructuring


1. PROGRAM CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ..................................... 1
2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES ...................................... 8
3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ......................................................................................................... 11
4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOMES ....................................................... 17
5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................................. 18
6. LESSONS LEARNED............................................................................................................................ 21
7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWERS, IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES AND
PARTNERS ................................................................................................................................................ 22
ANNEX 1. WORLD BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION
PROCESSES............................................................................................................................................... 24
ANNEX 2. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS................................................................................... 25
ANNEX 3. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS ............................................. 25
ANNEX 4. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR ........... 26
ANNEX 5. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS.... 31
ANNEX 6. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ............................................................................. 32
ANNEX 7. MONITORING & EVALUATION FRAMEWORK - PROGRESS INDICATORS FOR
THE STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONS DPG .................................................................................. 33
ANNEX 8. MAP .......................................................................................................................................... 41 




                                                                                                                                                          i
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Afg Strengthening
Country:                Afghanistan              Program Name:
                                                                           Institutions DPG
Program ID:             P107921                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H5010
ICR Date:               06/20/2011               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                           AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 23.5M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 23.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 23.5M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/16/2008      Effectiveness:             08/24/2009         08/24/2009
Appraisal:            04/15/2009      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/04/2009      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   08/31/2010         08/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                          Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                         Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem        No                      Quality at Entry        None


                                                 i
Program at any time                                (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  50                   50
General public administration sector                               24                   24
Mining and other extractive                                        13                   13
Sub-national government administration                             13                   13


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                             21                  21
Macroeconomic management                                            33                  33
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                13                  13
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    33                  33
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                  Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:          Nicholas J. Krafft                  Nicholas J. Krafft
Sector Manager:            Joel Hellman                        Joel Hellman
Program Team Leader:       Camilo Gomez Osorio                 Birgit Hansl
ICR Team Leader:           Camilo Gomez Osorio
ICR Primary Author:        Camilo Gomez Osorio


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall goal of the operation is to consolidate macroeconomic stability and enhance
fiduciary standards of the core budget. The reform program will support improved
management of public finances, further strengthen fiscal and economic governance,
foster fiscal responsibility, and introduce aspects of greater transparency and
accountability. In particular, the DPG will have the following core development



                                                ii
objectives: (i) improve fiscal policy and planning and public financial management, (ii)
strengthen public administration reform and sub-national administration, and (iii)
increase transparency and accountability in the management of public finances. The
operation is aiming at complementing other investment and technical assistant operations
in the areas of public financial management and public administration.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target   Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised      Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval        Target      Completion or
                                              documents)       Values       Target Years
                   The MOF-IARCSC working group on the fiscal implications of the P&G
Indicator 1 :
                   reform is meeting once per month during SY1388.
Value
                   First meeting in April
(quantitative or                            Once per month
                   2009
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/30/2009               08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% completed.
achievement)
                   Timely submission of the SY1389 budget to Parliament (according to the
Indicator 2 :      Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law 45 days before end of
                   fiscal year) accompanied by an updated MTFF
Value                                      SY1389 submitted
                   SY1388 submitted to
(quantitative or                           to Parliament in
                   Parliament in time
Qualitative)                               time
Date achieved      04/30/2009              08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% completed.
achievement)
                   A Strategy and Budget Framework report feeding into the SY1389 budget
Indicator 3 :
                   preparation process is developed
                   n/a (previously there    Strategy Budget
Value
                   was one Strategy and Framework for
(quantitative or
                   Budget Framework in SY1389 prepared
Qualitative)
                   SY1386)                  by December
Date achieved      04/30/2009               08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% completed.
achievement)
                   Implementation of SY1388 operating budget at 90 percent or above (baseline
Indicator 4 :
                   SY1387: 95 percent) actual expenditure of original budget. Implementation of



                                                iii
                   SY1388 core development budget at 60 percent or
                                        SY1388 operating
                                        budget at 90
                   SY1387 operating
Value                                   percent or above,
                   budget: 95 percent,
(quantitative or                        SY1388
                   SY1387 development
Qualitative)                            development
                   budget: 49 percent
                                        budget at 60
                                        percent or above
Date achieved      04/30/2009           08/31/2010
Comments
                   50% completed. Development budget execution rate was 39 percent; operating
(incl. %
                   budget execution rate 90 percent for 1388.
achievement)
                   Procurement manual finalized and published. Standard Bidding Documents
Indicator 5 :
                   completed and disseminated.
                                         SY1388:
Value                                    Procurement
(quantitative or   n/a                   manual published
Qualitative)                             and SBDs
                                         disseminated
Date achieved      04/30/2009            08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% completed.
achievement)
                   Improved fiduciary standards: SY1388 expenditures eligible for Afghanistan
Indicator 6 :      Reconstruction Trust Fund, ARTF, recurrent cost window reimbursement as a
                   percentage of all submitted expenditures for wages:
                                               SY1388 ARTF
                   SY1387 ARTF                 recurrent cost
                   recurrent cost window window
Value
                   reimbursement               reimbursement
(quantitative or
                   eligibility ratio - wages: eligibility ratio -
Qualitative)
                   89 percent other: 62        wages: above 85
                   percent                     percent other:
                                               above 60 percent
Date achieved      04/30/2009                  08/31/2010
                   100% completed. The report of the independent MA for the ARTF:
Comments
                   Salary eligibility ratio 89.1 percent;
(incl. %
                   non-salary eligibility ratio 60.4 percent. However, trends show deterioration
achievement)
                   in the eligibility ratio of the ARTF over past three years.
                   Number of ministries that finished re-grading by end SY1388: 10 (baseline
Indicator 7 :
                   SY1387: 5).
Value                                          SY1388: 10
                   SY1387: 5 ministries
(quantitative or                               ministries finished
                   finished re-grading
Qualitative)                                   re-grading
Date achieved      04/30/2009                  08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% completed.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Size of civil service (non-uniformed) does not exceed 300,000 anytime in


                                               iv
                   SY1388.
Value
                                            SY1388: under
(quantitative or   end SY1387: 258,139
                                            300,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/30/2009               08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% completed.
achievement)
                   Increased number of civil servants under VPP by at least 40,000 in SY1388
Indicator 9 :
                   (baseline SY1387: 122,000).
Value
(quantitative or   end SY1387: 141,007      SY1388: 180,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      04/30/2009               08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% completed.
achievement)
                   Completion of a draft strategic sub-national financing framework by end
Indicator 10 :
                   SY1388.
                                            SY1388: draft
Value
                                            strategic sub-
(quantitative or   n/a
                                            national financing
Qualitative)
                                            framework
Date achieved      04/30/2009               08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Incomplete.
achievement)
                   EITI national institutions are established. Work plan and budget for EITI
Indicator 11 :     implementation are approved by the multi-stake-holder EITI steering
                   committee, published and handed in to the EITI Secretariat
                                            EITI GOA
                                            champion is
                                            appointed; Multi-
                                            stake-holder EITI
                                            steering committee
Value
                                            appointed;
(quantitative or   n/a
                                            Approved work
Qualitative)
                                            plan and budget
                                            for EITI
                                            implementation
                                            handed in to the
                                            EITI Secretariat
Date achieved      04/30/2009               08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% completed.
achievement)
                   Create a baseline inventory of companies operating in the extractive industries
Indicator 12 :     in Afghanistan and publish a list of all mine titles with: permit number, type of
                   permit, company name and address, loca


                                                 v
                                              Baseline inventory
                                              of companies
Value
                                              operating in the
(quantitative or   n/a
                                              extractive
Qualitative)
                                              industries
                                              published
Date achieved      04/30/2009                 08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% completed.
achievement)
                   An audit of the Afghanistan Financial Management Information System
Indicator 13 :
                   (AFMIS) will be initiated in SY1388.
Value                                      SY1388: audit of
(quantitative or   n/a                     the AFMIS
Qualitative)                               initiated
Date achieved      04/30/2009              08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% completed.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                Values (from                     Achieved at
      Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                  approval                      Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :      n/a
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP              Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1      03/26/2010            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  36.99


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



                                                  vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
This Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report describes the results of a development
policy grant operation that lasted more than a year. The Strengthening Institutions Development
Policy Grant (DPG) supported the implementation of the government of Afghanistan (GOA)’s
medium-term development strategy within the context of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework. This stand-alone operation built on an earlier series of DPGs and came in response to
an increased level of uncertainty in Afghanistan, fueled by controversies around the Presidential
elections of August 2009 and Parliamentary elections of 2010.

1.1 Context of Appraisal
Afghanistan has been devastated by decades of conflict. The social, economic, and political
environment in the country remains complex. Not only is it severely affected by an ongoing
insurgency and heavy entrenchment of opium production (not measured in the income and output
figures), but it also faces challenges of weak governance and unreliable rule of law. In addition,
the country’s development needs are worrisome. About 70 percent of the people subsist on less
than US$2/day, roughly 40 percent is unemployed, and adult literacy is just 76.5 percent. At the
time of appraisal, the security situation continued to deteriorate, presenting a challenging
environment for new investment and dire need for development and stabilization.
The economy has seen rapid growth since the Taliban government collapsed in 2001.
Afghanistan has experienced average growth rates in double digits since 2002/03; with
uncertainty and deteriorating security, strong income growth has come from increasing donor
spending. But, this rapid growth has gone hand in hand with great volatility because of its heavy
reliance on rain-fed agriculture (Figure 1). In 2007/08, non-opium GDP growth was estimated to
be 12.1 percent, driven by agricultural production and drought recovery. Industrial growth,
particularly in construction, slowed in comparison with earlier years. Also, rising import prices
for food and fuel created inflationary pressures in the early months of 2008/09, but eased off
towards the end of the fiscal year as world prices declined.

Figure 1: GDP growth                                                     Figure 2: Contribution to Real GDP Growth
 30%
                                                                          35

 25%                                                                      30
                                                                                                                                               3.9
        Agricultural GDP                                                  25
 20%                               Overall GDP                                                                                                 3.1
            Growth
                                     Growth                               20
                                                                                              3.0
 15%                                                                                                                  2.6
                                                                                              1.4                     1.4
                                                                          15
 10%                                                                              1.4
                                                                          10      0.8                      2.0                                22.1
                                                                                                           0.9
                                                                                              16.1                   15.4
 5%                                                                        5      9.8                      9.0                     0.5
                                                                                                                                   0.4
                                                                                                                                   3.1
 0%                                                                        0                                                       ‐1.1
                                                                                  ‐3.9                     ‐3.7       ‐5.4
                                                                                              ‐6.4                                            ‐6.7
 ‐5%                                                                       ‐5

                                                                          ‐10
‐10%
                                                                                2004/05     2005/06      2006/07    2007/08     2008/09      2009/10
                                                                                    Pvt Consumption                     Govt. Consumption 
‐15%
                                                                                    Investment (Gross Dom. Fixed)        Net Exports
       2003/04 2004/05 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11
                                                                                    Real GDP Growth



Private consumption has been the driver of growth. In the past five years, private consumption
has contributed more than 9 percentage points on average to real GDP growth. Behind this drive
for consumption is the security economy, generating demand for goods and services, equipment

                                                                                                                                                     1
and operations and maintenance of the national army, and higher spending by donors, including
their large off-budget contributions (Figure 2). This private consumption is largely directed at
services, the most dynamic sector, which contributes roughly one-third of real GDP growth.

Economic indicators suggest that the current foreign aid-dependent growth path is
unsustainable. Exports are declining and the country depends heavily on imports for
reconstruction and food. From 2005/06 to 2008/09, export values dropped from 24 percent to 19
percent of GDP. Private investment reached just 8 percent of GDP in 2008/09, and total
investment 32 percent. Another major concern is that gross revenues from the opium trade may
be equivalent to one-third of measured GDP, though official numbers do not reflect this.
Afghanistan was the source of 90 percent of the world’s opium production in 2008 and the area
                                                        1
under cultivation more than doubled from 2003 to 2007. Such challenges suggest the need for a
medium-term strategy based on alternative sources of sustained growth.

Afghanistan is one of the most aid-dependent countries. Foreign aid accounts for over 47
percent of GDP and donors pay nearly 90 percent of all public expenditures. Official figures for
overall aid, which is greatly underestimated, reported US$4.1 billion in 2008/09 for the external
budget alone. Historically, about two-thirds of external funding bypasses the government’s
budget because donors are concerned with accountability and absorptive capacity. Of the one-
third that is on budget, most goes towards paying public-sector salaries and for development
projects. In 2008/09, only 60 percent of the operating budget was covered by domestic revenues,
while the remainder was picked up by donors through the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
(ARTF), the Law and Order Trust Fund for Afghanistan (LOTFA) and other smaller sources of
assistance. Nearly all development expenditures were financed by donors (Figures 3 and 4).
Structure of the National Budget - SY1388 Preliminary Actual

Figure 3: Resources                                            Figure 4: Expenditures


                                     Domestic 
                                     Revenues                                                   Operating 
                                       19%                                                     Expenditures
                                                   Grants                                          26%
                                                  Operating 
                                                   Budget                    External Budget
                   External Budget
                                                    10%                           60%           Development 
                        61%
                                                                                                Expenditures
                                                 Grants/Loans                                       14%
                                                 Developmen
                                                    Budget
                                                     10%



Source: MOF

In spite of an improving domestic revenue base, fiscal sustainability is a critical issue and
donor funding will remain crucial in the years ahead. Afghanistan was in a strong fiscal




1
    United Nations’ Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) report 2008.


                                                                                                               2
                                                                           2
position in 2008/09 because of notable revenue collection efforts. Domestic revenues increased
by over 20 percent from the previous year, reaching 7 percent of GDP, but were still low by
international standards. Fiscal sustainability improved from 38 percent to 60 percent from
2002/03 to 2008/09. However, operating spending also increased in this period, mostly due to the
higher security wage bill.

Institutional reforms aimed at strengthening public financial management (PFM) systems
have made progress. These efforts have focused on creating a legal framework and establishing
fiscal authority, as well as strengthening PFM and revenue administration. It is reflected in
improved public expenditure and financial accountability (PEFA) indicators in the June 2005 and
December 2007 assessments. In 2007/08, for instance, the government introduced program
budgeting to consolidate budget preparation and align expenditures with the priorities of the
Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS). Parliament approved the 2008/09 budget,
the first time it had been able to do so. Medium-term fiscal policy objectives are being formulated
in the medium-term fiscal framework (MTFF). The main challenges remain inflated budget
projections and low budget execution, linked to limited absorptive capacity of line ministries.
Also, there is limited PFM capacity outside the Ministry of Finance, and weaknesses in internal
and external audit functions. Nevertheless, structural policies have helped consolidate
macroeconomic stability, despite the challenges in managing revenues and expenditures.

Afghanistan has enacted a modern, robust legal and institutional framework for PFM, and
                                                  3
has attained better-than-average PFM outputs. Maintaining this functioning PFM framework
in the volatile social and security environment has been a major objective for donors. A solid
framework has been established for deliberating and formulating an annual budget within the
boundaries of medium-term fiscal policy and the available fiscal envelope. The control,
accounting, and payment of all budget transactions are under an integrated financial management
system, which uses a coding system compliant with internal and external reporting requirements.
In addition, the reform continues to support the PFM arrangements that were established in the
reconstruction period, with the budget as the main vehicle for policy implementation and the
Treasury Department providing cash management, accounting and payment services for the entire
government.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The overall goal was to consolidate macroeconomic stability and enhance fiduciary standards of
the core budget. The development policy grant (DPG) supported the government’s reform
program in three core policy areas:

      (i)      Improving fiscal policy and planning and public financial management;
      (ii)     Strengthening public administration reform and sub-national administration; and
      (iii)    Increasing transparency and accountability in the management of public finances.




2
 Fiscal sustainability here refers to a narrow concept of ability to meet operational expenditures from
domestic revenues.

3
    Afghanistan Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment (PEFA) 2008.


                                                                                                          3
Key Progress Indicators      (1) A Strategy and Budget Framework report feeding into the Solar Year
                                 (SY) 1389 budget preparation process is developed;
                             (2) Improved fiduciary standards: SY1388 expenditures eligible for ARTF
                                 reimbursement as a percentage of all submitted expenditures: wages,
                                 above 85 percent, and other, above 60 percent (baseline: SY1387, 89
                                 percent and 62 percent respectively);
                             (3) Implement SY1388 operating budget at 90 percent or above actual
                                 expenditure of original budget (SY1387, 95 percent). Implement
                                 SY1388 core development budget at 60 percent or above actual
                                 expenditure of original budget (SY1387, 49 percent);
                             (4) Size of civil service (non-uniformed) does not exceed 300,000 during
                                 SY1388;
                             (5) Increase complement of civil servants under Verified Payroll Program
                                 by at least 40,000 in SY1388 (from baseline 120,000 in SY1387);
                             (6) Complete draft strategic sub-national financing framework by end
                                 SY1388.
                             (7) Create a baseline inventory of companies operating in the extractive
                                 industries in Afghanistan and publish a list of all mine titles, with
                                 permit number, type of permit, company name and address, location of
                                 mine, and commodity; and
                             (8) The internal audit plan of the Ministry of Finance for SY1388 includes
                                 reviews by the two new internal audit units, the Fraud Investigation
                                 Unit and the Information Technology Audit section.


1.3 Revised PDO, as Approved by Original Approving Authority, and Key Indicators and
    Reasons/Justification

Not applicable.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

Listed below are the supported areas, by theme, and prior actions that were agreed upon, as stated
in the project document. The associated government policy matrix, which outlines specific
actions for these components, is presented in Annex 7. It describes the key progress indicators for
the next twelve months, the monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and the government’s
medium-term reform strategy across each of the three themes.

Prior actions: The operation was designed to carry out all prior actions before presentation to the
Board (Box 1). These were imbedded within a wider medium-term government reform program.




                                                                                                     4
 Box 1: Prior Actions for the Strengthening Institutions Development Policy Grant
 Theme 1: Improve Fiscal Policy and Planning, and Public Financial Management
 (1) The government has: (i) submitted to Parliament a MTFF budget statement for the SY1388 budget
     discussion that includes expenditure estimates based on reasonable approximations of the medium-term
     cost impact of the pay and grading reform; and (ii) established and appointed members of a joint
     technical working group of the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Administrative Reform and
     Civil Service Commission (IARCSC) to implement the pay and grading reform.
 (2) The Budget Department is reorganized along the ANDS priority sectors with the view to ensuring that: (i)
     the budget becomes an implementation instrument for the ANDS; and (ii) is approved by Parliament in a
     timely manner.
 (3) Enactment of amendments to the 2008 Procurement Law providing for, inter alia, the reinstatement of
     transparency of the procurement process regarding low-value procurement, and reissuance of a circular
     restoring ARDS procurement oversight.

 Theme 2: Strengthen Public Administration Reform and Sub-National Administration
 (4) Official gazetting of a new Civil Servant Law with a new pay and grading scale.
 (5) Increase direct deposits under the government’s Verified Payroll Plan, from 50,801 civil servants at the
      end of SY1386 to at least 95,000 by the end of SY1387.
 (6) Report on the assessment of the provincial budgeting pilot is issued by the Ministry of Finance to develop
      an institutional position on sub-national financing reform.

 Theme 3: Increase Transparency and Accountability in the Management of Public Finances
 (7) Cabinet to publicly commit to the Extractive Industries Transparency (EITI) Initiative for Afghanistan.
 (8) Establish in the Internal Audit Department of the Ministry of Finance: (i) a Fraud Investigation Unit with
      a qualified auditor and a training program for staff; and (ii) an Information Technology (IT) Audit
      Section.


Theme 1: Improve Fiscal Policy and Planning and Financial Management
1.1 Improving budget process and medium-term fiscal planning
A timely budget preparation process and subsequent timely approval of the annual budget
will be facilitated by the reorganization of the Budget Department in 2008/09, which
includes reflecting the functions related to the ANDS. This will be supported by a prior action
and aims to ensure the budget moves towards becoming a key instrument for the implementation
of the ANDS. The Budget Department needs to integrate this structure into the recent Tashkeel
and use such organizational set-up for the 2009/10 budget preparation process. The timely
submission of the 2010/11 budget is a progress indicator for this DPG.
A second prior action will ensure the government formulates an improved forward-looking
2009/10 MTFF budget statement and submits it to Parliament as part of the 1388 budget
documentation. This MTFF will include expenditure estimates based on reasonable
approximations of the medium term cost impact of the pay & grading (P&G) reform. In addition
to the technical costing exercise, the authorities will establish a joint technical working group
drawn from relevant units in the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Administrative Reform
and Civil Service Commission to better coordinate management of the fiscal implications of the




                                                                                                          5
P&G reform. 4 Since the wage bill accounts for almost two-thirds of operating expenditures,
changes in the pay structure of the civil service will affect the government’s overall fiscal
position. According to current estimates, the total net fiscal cost of P&G will amount to about
US$205 million once all current civil servants have been moved to the new scale in 2013/14,
                                                      5
adding about 17 percent to the existing wage bill. It will be critical for the government to
actively manage the roll-out of the P&G reform in a manner that is fiscally prudent and
sustainable (i.e., that stays within the parameters of the MTFF and adjusts if the overall fiscal
framework should change – such as, for example, shortfalls in revenue). An integrated Fiscal
Strategy and Budget Framework report would serve as a progress indicator.
1.2 Enhancing financial management and fiduciary standards
The government will issue amendments to the Public Procurement Law 2008, incorporating
World Bank procurement team comments and suggested improvements to the clarity of the law.
This will be fully consistent with good public procurement practices. A circular will be re-issued
reconfirming ARDS oversight of procurement at the fixed thresholds. These two measures
constitute a prior action for the DPG. More minor actions will be the completion and
dissemination of the Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) and Standard Request for Proposals. A
few structural issues in six articles of the law are planned to be addressed in the medium term.
During the 2009/10 fiscal year, ending in March, the government commits to: (a) finalize and
publish the Procurement Manual; and (b) complete and disseminate the SBDs. The Ministry of
Finance will start reporting on compliance with the ARDS circular and will establish a baseline
for SY1388. The government commits to increase the ARTF eligibility ratios and agrees to use
the ratio of eligible expenditures determined by the ARTF’s monitoring agent, as a key indicator
of successful implementation of PFM reforms.


Theme 2: Strengthen Public Administration Reform and Sub-National Administration
2.1 Improving human resource management
The enactment of the Civil Servant Law in June 2008 is a prior action for the DPG that will
strengthen the overall legal framework for civil service management in Afghanistan. It will
include provisions to implement a new P&G structure across the non-military civil service,
replacing the ad hoc salary structures devised by the earlier Provisional Reform and Restructuring
program. The main change from the old to the new P&G system is to move civil servants from a
person-based grade structure to a position-based grade structure. This reflects a change towards a
more transparent and equitable P&G structure. However, the pay levels appear to be more
compressed than originally envisioned and it is doubtful whether this will attract quality staff at


4
  This reform will be completed by 2014, when it should cover some 320,000 non-uniformed civil servants. It was
spread over four years due to fiscal concerns. The central dilemma faced by the government since 2002 is how to
attract and retain staff with a payroll that is fiscally sustainable for a poor country. According to the new pay scales all
civil servants will receive salaries ranging from $100 in grade 8 to $650 in grade 1. P&G cannot of itself achieve the
objective of retaining and attracting high-performing staff, and donors and government have resorted to various
schemes to inject capacity into higher grades of the civil service.

5
  The MOF allocated US$32.8 million to P&G implementation in 2009/10, which would cover roughly 80,000 civil
servants, including teachers.




                                                                                                                          6
senior levels in the short term. Important next steps for the government on the civil service reform
agenda for the year are: (a) progress in implementing the P&G reform, including a phased re-
grading and re-appointment process of civil servants in accordance with fiscal realities; and (b)
agreement on the key features of a fiscally feasible pension system in line with the P&G reform
with the adoption of pension regulations. The completion of the re-grading process at ten
ministries by end 1388 (baseline, five ministries in 1387) constitutes an important progress
indicator for this DPG.
The government commits to nearly doubling the Verified Payroll Plan (VPP)’s direct
deposits of payroll between 2007/08 and 2008/09 to at least 95,000 from 50,801, which is
identified as a prior action of the DPG. By the end of 2008/09, the VPP’s direct deposits of
payroll will have expanded to over 122,000 civil servants. As a key outcome indicator, the DPG
will monitor the target of at least 40,000 additional staff included in the Afghanistan Registration
Authority, covered in the direct deposit phase of the VPP under the Ministry of Finance by end-
2009/10.
2.2 Strengthening sub-national fiscal functions
The Ministry of Finance will take steps to develop an institutional position on sub-national
financing reforms. This requires the completion in 2009 of a report on the assessment of the
provincial budgeting pilot, which is a prior action for this DPG. Building on a deepening dialogue
between the GOA and the World Bank along with other development partners, a draft strategic
approach to sub-national financing is also planned. Such a strategic approach is needed to
particularly address the questions of how sector ministries would reform the vertical structure of
budget authority, and within what framework they would develop budget norms for allocating
resources across sub-national units. This aims to guide the expansion of sub-national reform
efforts beyond the current provincial budgeting exercises.


Theme 3:      Increase Transparency and Accountability in the Management of Public
Finances
3.1 Instituting measures to improve the assessment and collection of taxes and royalties from
   existing and planned mining and quarry operations
The government is committed to increasing domestic revenues and collecting them in a fair
and transparent manner. Given the new mining operations coming on stream, the Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) aims to play an important role in mining revenue
management, accountability and transparency. As an important first step for implementing the
EITI framework, the government publicly commits to adopting EITI in Afghanistan in March
2009, which is a prior action for this DPG. Along these lines, the government commits: (a) to
appoint an EITI champion and all members of the multi-stakeholder EITI steering committee; (b)
to approve and publish a work plan and budget for the EITI implementation; and (c) to create a
baseline inventory of companies in the extractive industries and publish a list of all mine titles. In
the medium term, the government’s objective is, after fully establishing the institutional
framework of the EITI, to become an EITI candidate country, to reach compliant status, and
complete an EITI validation within two years of becoming a candidate country. These are
important steps in the implementation of accountability and good governance in the exploitation
of natural resources in Afghanistan.
3.2 Increasing financial accountability through transparent and improved auditing function
The government commits to strengthening the internal audit function. As a prior action of
this DPG, the government will establish a new section, called the Financial Intelligence Unit


                                                                                                    7
(FIU), staffed with ten trained auditors. It shall be fully functional under the guidance of a
qualified auditor. The FIU will establish both a training program for staff and work practice tools,
including a Fraud Investigation Manual, to support their work. In addition, the establishment of
the IT Audit Section is another important component in the attempt to increase financial
accountability, and an IT manual will be developed. Over the duration of the DPG, the
government commits to implement: (i) the internal audit plan of the Ministry of Finance to
include reviews by the two new audit units, the FIU and the IT Audit Section; (ii) the first audit of
the AFMIS system to be initiated; and (iii) a follow-up report on the 2007/08 audit for
presentation to Parliament. Actions under (i) and (ii) are important progress indicators for this
DPG.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

The policy areas were not revised during the life of the project.

1.6 Other significant changes

There were no significant changes to the project from the design stage to the completion of the
operation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

 Tranche #            Amount       Expected             Actual Release Release
                                   Release Date         Date
 Tranche 1            US$35million 08/31/2009           08/24/2009     (1) Regular


 Tranche 1
 Conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                          Status
 Prior Actions                                                              Completed
 (1) The government has: (i) submitted to Parliament a MTFF budget
      statement for the SY1388 budget discussion, which includes
      expenditure estimates based on reasonable approximations of the
      medium-term cost impact of P&G reform; and (ii) established and
      appointed members of a joint technical working group from the
      Ministry of Finance and Independent Administrative Reform and
      Civil Service Commission (IARCSC) to implement P&G reform.
 (2) The Budget Department is reorganized along the ANDS priority
      sectors with the view to ensuring that: (i) the budget becomes an
      implementation instrument for the ANDS; and (ii) is approved by
      Parliament in a timely manner.
 (3) Enactment of Amendments to the 2008 Procurement Law providing
      for, inter alia, the reinstatement of transparency of the procurement
      process with respect to low-value procurement; and reissuance of a
      circular restoring ARDS procurement oversight.
 (4) Official gazetting of a new Civil Servant Law with a new P&G scale.
 (5) Increase direct deposits under the government’s Verified Payroll Plan

                                                                                                   8
     (VPP) from 50,801 civil servants at the end of SY1386 to at least
     95,000 by the end of SY1387.
 (6) Report on the assessment of the provincial budgeting pilot is issued
     by the Ministry of Finance to help develop an institutional position
     on sub-national financing reform.
 (7) Cabinet announcement to commit to the Extractive Industries
     Transparency Initiative (EITI) for Afghanistan.
 (8) Establish in the Internal Audit Department (IAD) of the Ministry of
     Finance: (i) a Fraud Investigation Unit (FIU) with a qualified auditor
     and a training program for staff, and (ii) an Information Technology
     (IT) Audit Section.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation
The deteriorating security situation and controversial Presidential election along with a
subsequent delay in the change of Cabinet led to a general slow-down in government
decision-making. This disrupted disbursement of the development budget. As a result of
security concerns, contractors and bidders were discouraged from playing a more active role in
government projects. In addition, implementation of programs and projects was delayed and
there was an overall sense of slower decision-making across the public sector. Some ministries
had to wait more than six months for Parliament’s ratification of their leadership and had to
operate under interim or acting Ministers during this time. It was foreseeable that security issues
and the election year would slow the government’s decision process, but the delay in obtaining
Parliamentary approval for the new Cabinet, which extended for more than six months in some
cases, had an unexpected and adverse impact on implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The M&E framework design focuses unduly on processes and inputs instead of outcomes.
The link between the selected progress indicators and the objectives is blurry, making an
assessment of impact difficult. This is due partly to the short time that the operation had in which
to deliver measurable PFM outcomes. However, this could have been mitigated to some extent if
the M&E design had stronger links between the policy matrix actions and the objectives that
these aimed to support.
The M&E framework was ambiguous and left many government participants uncertain as
to what was required to meet the World Bank benchmarks. The policy matrix lists the
objectives, prior actions and progress indicators, as well as monitoring and evaluation
arrangements (Annex 7). However, some officials said they had difficulties in understanding the
evidence that the World Bank task team required to declare a benchmark met. This is a
combination of the varied PFM capacity within the Ministry of Finance and the level of technical
detail that some subcomponents required. However, this ICR concluded there was ambiguity in
the M&E arrangements of the government policy matrix, particularly, on the monitoring of
actions under the responsibility of the finance ministry.
The key progress indicators for the budget execution and the ARTF’s eligibility ratio were
not suitable because their drivers are more complex (Theme 1, p5). The expectation of
improvements to both of these indicators within a one-year period was unrealistic because it
would require prior actions, benchmarks, and timing beyond the scope of this budget support




                                                                                                  9
grant.6 Thus, improvements in disbursing the development budget – for a larger and smoother
pattern through the year – would require addressing many bottlenecks: unrealistic budget
formulation, poor predictability and late disbursement of donor funds, insecurity in project
implementation, and a significant unspent amount carried over. Moreover, the evolution of the
ARTF’s eligibility ratio, which measures compliance with fiduciary standards, has for years
shown that the large volumes of ineligible expenses submitted are due to capacity constraints
across line ministries. Both factors are particularly affected by misinterpretations of the laws on
procurement and PFM and their amendments. Therefore, these indicators were not an accurate
measure of progress.
Overall implementation and monitoring were the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance.
A focal point was appointed to coordinate the process overall, and the ministry’s Deputy
Ministers worked closely with the World Bank from the start of the operation. From the Bank’s
side, the task team monitored the policy actions and reviewed implementation during a
supervision mission from October 20 to 29, and provided in-country support throughout the
operation. From the client side, the government closely tracked key progress indicators.
The design rightfully acknowledged the capacity and data limitations in monitoring the
policy actions. Afghanistan has limited capacity and lacks the data to establish an effective
monitoring and evaluation system to enable the government to assess the progress and impact of
programs. As a result, the World Bank team had to rely also on third-party, or internal,
monitoring and verification efforts, including the ARTF’s independent monitoring agent reports,
the IMF’s PRGF program supervision, and the World Bank’s PFM Reform Project monitoring
arrangements.



2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

None.




6
  The ARTF’s eligibility ratio refers to the difference between submitted and actually approved expenditures, and only
recurrent expenses that meet the criteria for financing, as set by the signed Grant Agreement and the Fiduciary
Standards, can be reimbursed.
ARTF Eligibility Criteria:
Government Regulations
The Annual Budget Decree: Since the ARTF provides budget support to the government, expenditures can be found
eligible only if they are included in the yearly budget. The ARTF’s share of financing for the yearly budget was
approved by the ARTF management committee. Also, all goods and services must be procured and accounted for in
accordance with government law and regulations. Noncompliance with local regulations makes an expense ineligible.
The Afghan procurement law allows for procurement to conform to donor requirements (article 50, sub 1).
ARTF Grant Agreement
Ineligible: military and security related expenditures: Procurement –capitalized goods and works to be procured in
accordance with the provisions of World Bank procurement in the Financial Agreement.
Fiduciary Standards
Fiduciary Standards (as of 20 December 2004): In addition to the Afghan laws and regulations, an additional set of
requirements was agreed on the timeliness of reporting and efficiency of cash management of eligible expenditures.

                                                                                                                  10
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


The objectives of this stand-alone operation were important to the World Bank’s country
strategy, as embodied in its Afghanistan Interim Strategy Note (ISN, 2009-11). At the heart
of the World Bank’s strategy is the emphasis on building core public expenditure management
capacity to enable the government to effectively absorb larger donor inflows, while reducing
external off-budget funding that bypasses government systems. The operation directly supported
Pillar 1, that seeks: “…to strengthen core government systems as the basis for credible state
building, through efforts to strengthen public financial management, fiscal sustainability and
improved transparency and accountability, while integrating the results of vulnerability to
corruption assessments into ongoing work streams.” It sought to enable the government to
become more accountable in its overall management of public resources. Also, it drew upon
existing analytic work and focused on policy measures that complemented other instruments for
strengthening PFM systems, such as the ARTF’s Incentive Program and the four consecutive IDA
PFM reform projects.

The design as a single-tranche operation was appropriate, given the country’s
circumstances at the time. The Presidential elections in 2009 generated great uncertainty in
Afghanistan. Also, during the preparatory phase of this operation the perception grew that
security was deteriorating, and the task team responded appropriately by designing a DPG with a
one-year time frame. Both factors risked undermining the medium-term reform agenda and, while
the operation touched upon areas where the government had a proven track record, preparing a
stand-alone operation seemed a suitable approach. In this sense, this DPG was conceived as a
bridge between the previous Programmatic Support for Institution-Building (PSIB) series and a
prospective future generation of programmatic budget support operations to be defined once the
direction of the new government became clearer. Not moving forward with a DPG during this
transition period would have slowed the reform momentum and lost continuity from the previous
operations.

A key success factor was designing the DPG to put greater weight on the implementation of
prior actions for some of the most meaningful reforms. The prior actions for this operation
were significantly stronger and more meaningful than those comprising the previous PSIB series
of operations. Also, the design of the grant, which designated some of these more meaningful
reforms as prior actions, ensured that at the time of signing, the DPG had already made
significant progress. Certain prior actions were politically sensitive, such as: (i) the submission to
Parliament of a MTFF budget statement for discussion as part of the SY1388 budget discussion;
(ii) the reorganization of the Budget Department along the lines of the ANDS priority sectors;
and (iii) the establishment of an Internal Audit Department under the Ministry of Finance, to be
comprised of a Fraud Investigation unit and an Information Technology Audit Section. In
addition, the design of the operation mitigated an identified risk, ensuring ownership and
commitment on the part of the government prior to the start of the implementation process. The
identification of these prior actions successfully mitigated a component of political risk identified
at entry.

The definition of the second objective, to “strengthen public administration reform and sub-
national administration”, grouped two distinct components with different reform agendas
and varying progress. Given that the two components cover different areas of reform (P&G

                                                                                                   11
reform and sub-national public finance), with stakeholders, they would have warranted treatment
as two different objectives. Giving these components, a separate treatment at the operation’s
design stage would have facilitated its assessment of progress.

The Ministry of Finance was responsible for the overall implementation and monitoring of
the DPG. The government appointed as focal point the Deputy Minister and his team that
provided overall coordination and worked closely with World Bank staff from the inception stage.
Thus, housing this operation under the leadership of the ministry was only natural, given its
nature and focus. The leadership at the ministry was very strong, reflecting the drive from the
Deputy Minister’s office and its familiarity with budget support operations. This ensured the
successful implementation of reforms.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Overall the DPG achieved most of its objectives. Considering the size of the grant, the
circumstances in Afghanistan at the time, the one-year timeframe, and its stand-alone nature, this
operation met most of its objectives. It strengthened the World Bank’s relationship with the
government by endorsing the idea that a greater share of foreign assistance can be channeled
through the Afghan “core” budget. Currently, three quarters of the aid bypasses government
systems, moving through an “external budget”. This dual budgetary structure means that most
economic activity and investment takes place outside the government’s fiscal control, which
undermines its legitimacy and weakens the National Budget as the primary tool of policy intent.
The authorities want a greater share of the external funding to be channeled through the budget
system, but donors are concerned with accountability and absorptive capacity. Currently, the
government can only disburse 40 percent of its development budget. This dual budget structure
has become a major impediment for authorities to align public spending with their stated national
priorities.

Progress was made across all but one area in the policy matrix, meeting the key progress
indicators (Table 1, below). The prior actions and measures under Theme 1, “Improving Fiscal
Policy and Planning and Public Financial Management”, were adequate and signaled
improvements to the budget process and medium term planning. The submission of an improved
and forward-looking MTFF budget statement to Parliament enriched the budget discussion. It did
so by including a costing exercise of the fiscal impact of rolling out the P&G reform. Also, the
reorganization of the Budget Department, to include functions related to the ANDS, served to
facilitate implementation of the country’s development strategy. Both reforms were identified as
prior actions. Furthermore, the strict adherence to the budget calendar enabled the government to
spend resources more effectively throughout 2009. It corrected a pattern of slower disbursement
in Q1 that was due to the late approval of the budget. However, the DPG only partially met the
target on budget execution (key indicator (3)) and, while meeting the ARTF eligibility target (2),
data suggests compliance has decreased over the past four years.




                                                                                               12
Table 1: Achievement of Objectives and Key Progress Indicators
                                                                                                  Key Progress Indicators       Progress
                    Theme 1.  Improve fiscal policy and planning, and public financial management,
1.1 Improving budget process and medium‐ (1) A Strategy and Budget Framework report feeding into the Solar 
term fiscal planning.                             Year (SY) 1389 budget preparation process is developed;                     Completed
                                                  (3)     Implementation of SY1388 operating budget at 90 percent or
                                                  above (SY1387: 95 percent) actual expenditure of original budget.
                                                  (Completed) Implementation of SY1388 core development budget at
                                                  60 percent or above (SY1387: 49 percent) actual expenditure of
                                                  original budget (Not Completed);                                        Partially Completed
1.2 Enhance financial management and (2)     Improved fiduciary standards: SY1388 expenditures eligible for 
fiduciary standards.                              ARTF reimbursement as a percentage of all submitted expenditures
                                                  wages: above 85 percent, other: above 60 percent (baseline: SY1387
                                                  89 percent and 62 percent respectively);                                    Completed
                  Theme 2. Strengthen public administration reform and sub‐national administration
2.1 Improve human resource management.            (4)     Size of civil service (non‐uniformed) does not exceed 300,000
                                                  anytime in SY1388;                                                          Completed
                                                  (5)     Increased in the number of civil servants under Verified
                                                  Payroll Program by at least 40,000 in SY1388 (from baseline
                                                  120,000 in SY1387);                                                         Completed
                                                  (6)     Completion of draft strategic sub‐national financing
2.2Strengthening sub‐national fiscal functions. framework by end SY1388.                                                      Incomplete
               Theme 3. Increase transparency and accountability in the management of public finances.  
3.1 Institute measures that increase the ability  (7)     Create a baseline inventory of companies operating in the
to assess and collect taxes and royalties from  extractive industries in Afghanistan and publish a list of all mine
existing and planned mining and quarry            titles with: permit number, type of permit, company name and
operations.                                       address, location of mine, and commodity;                                   Completed
3.2 Increase financial accountability through  (8)     The Internal Audit plan of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) for
transparent and improved auditing function.       SY1388 includes reviews by the two new Internal Audit units, the
                                                  Fraud Investigation Unit and the Information Technology Audit
                                                  section.                                                                    Completed


The fact that the development budget execution ratio and the ARTF’s eligibility ratio show
a declining trend over the past four years is a concern. Future assistance needs to explore
ways to address these bottlenecks. These two indicators point to areas where the World Bank has
been heavily engaged and committed substantial resources – notably, this DPG, the PSIB series
(three programmatic DPG operations), and the Public Financial Management Projects (I & II). In
2008/09, the core development execution rate dropped to 39 percent, from the already-low 43
percent of the previous year (Figure 5). Likewise, the data from the ARTF’s monitoring agent
shows that in 2009/10, 40 percent of the submissions for O&M expenses could not be reimbursed.
While 2009/10 was a year of improved compliance, the decline has not fully reversed7 (Figure 6).




7
  The data reported by the ARTF’s monitoring agent shows a decline in eligibility over the past years. Regarding
payroll, the eligibility dropped to 89.1 percent in 2009/10 due to non-compliance with government regulations and
missing documentation for expenditures associated with embassies under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition,
the trends in the eligibility ratio for O&M declined to 40 percent of submissions, mostly as a result of noncompliance
with procurement procedures, such as local advertisements or direct purchases from state enterprises.




                                                                                                                                         13
Figure 5: Core Budget Execution Rate,               Figure 6: ARTF’s Eligibility Ratio
           (actual/revised budget)
                                                                                               Payroll
                                                       100      92.2              92.5         89.2        88.4    89.1
                                                                         84.9
                                                        80                               O&M
                                                              74.8     72.1
                                                         60                     64.6       62                     60.4
                                                      ( %)                                               55.4
                                                        40

                                                        20

                                                         0
                                                              2004/05 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10

Source: MOF                                       Source: ARTF’s Monitoring Agent

Several reasons explain the low budget execution rate. First, authorities have little discretion
over 2/3 of the development budget because it is linked directly with project-tied donor funding
and pledges. Thus, the lack of predictability in donor financing makes planning difficult and
delays in donor disbursement result in slower execution. Second, a few projects account for a
large share of total development expenditures, so their implementation cycles determine the
overall volatility of the budget execution numbers. Third, the low development budget execution
ratio is also a reflection of unrealistic budget formulation by line ministries and donors, who often
plan for larger amounts than they can disburse to avoid breaks in implementation. In addition,
weaknesses in the current system of allocating funds from the center to the provinces & districts
take a toll and slow project implementation at the local level. Finally, the limited capacity, in
terms of adequate planning, financial management, procurement and project management
technical expertise within line ministries, has become a major bottleneck for the delivery of
programs.

Similarly the low eligibility ratio is not only attributable to weaknesses in the PFM system.
It is recognized that part of the problem with eligibility is related to delays or wrong application
of procurement rules. However, another issue which explains the low ratio is the lack of incentive
in Government agencies to comply with procurement rules. ARTF recurrent costs only finance
25% of civilian recurrent costs; there are, hence, always sufficient resources available to justify
disbursements. Generally a good standard of control and reporting is maintained while the causes
of ineligibility are a s small exception to the compliance with procurement rules.

The objective, to “strengthen public administration and sub-national administration”
(Theme 2) was partially accomplished. When assessing the overall progress for this component,
the achievements in improving human resource management within the public administration are
overshadowed by the bottlenecks in the sub-national public finance side. These two very broad
and complex areas should have been designed as separate objectives, but when considered jointly
the operation made partial progress. The public administration side focusing on the pay and
grading reform met its objectives and its actions served to contain fiscal pressures. Thus,
authorities restrained increases to the non-security wage bill and significantly expanded the
coverage of employees within the verified payroll system.

                                                                                                                         14
The sub-component focusing on “strengthening sub-national fiscal functions”, did not make
much progress. It is an area where the government has made little progress in recent years and
where overlaps exist between the competencies of the Independent Directorate of Local
Government (IDLG) and the finance ministry in establishing this sub-national financing
framework. As delineated in the PAD, the component looked for “the Ministry of Finance to
develop an institutional position on sub-national financing reforms”, which was not achieved, as
the draft strategic approach to sub-national financing was not finalized. However, the ministry
completed a report on the assessment of the provincial budgeting pilot in 2009, which was a prior
action. Consequently, the IDLG finalized an alternate Subnational Governance Policy (SNGP)
that did not engage the ministry and that was endorsed by Cabinet in the spring of 2010. Because
of the fiscal implications it entails, the ministry has reservations and discrepancies on the
repercussions for the budgeting of sub-national expenditures. Referring to the SNGP, the
ministry, in its own ICR assessment, pointed out that “it can still be considered that the details of
the sub-national fiscal relations are in draft form” (see Annexes 4, 3.1.6).

The World Bank provided technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance in the areas of
sectoral provincial expenditure norms. This was conducted within the realm of the budgeting
pilot in the education sector in an attempt to generate reform momentum for the sub-national
component. However, the main factor that slowed reform was the lack of ownership at the MOF.
The Ministry of Finance was unwilling to pursue significant reform of vertical budget authority,
due to concerns about burdening ministries with excessively complex reforms, as well as capacity
and accountability constraints at the sub-national level. Thus, the Budget Department, and
ministry as whole, appeared to have been largely unengaged with the formulation process of the
SNGP.

The objective, “increasing transparency and accountability in the management of public
finances” (Theme 3), was met. The prior actions and measures within this component were
adequate and signaled greater transparency in the management of mining revenues. These
supported the institutional framework for Afghanistan to adopt the EITI initiative that promotes
best practice in the management of resource revenues. As a result, Afghanistan became an EITI
candidate country on February 2010 and is on track to undergo EITI validation in the same month
of 2012. The Minister of Finance, Dr Omar Zakhilwal, was appointed EITI Champion.

Progress in promoting greater “financial accountability through improvements in internal
audit” (Theme 3), was satisfactory. The Fraud Investigation Unit was established, with eleven
staff, and by 2010/11 had investigated 152 fraud cases. It also conducted two audits on the
attendance system and the IT Department at the Ministry of Finance, which met the benchmarks
for this operation. However, to become fully functional, the FIU requires follow-up policy
reforms, such as an agreement on the legal framework and its powers to support a forensic review
that are not in place – including subpoena, seizing evidence, and taking testimony. Currently, the
FIU can support an investigation by the Attorney General, but more as a technical unit.
Furthermore, the IT Audit Sector was set up, with seven staff, and received basic training on IT,
audit training, and AFMIS auditing. The IT audit manual was developed and the AFMIS audit
was finalized in 2009/10.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: The outcome of the project is rated “satisfactory”.




                                                                                                  15
This is based on the fact that across all three themes the most significant objectives were met,
that the operation made satisfactory progress overall, and that there were minor shortcomings in
the operation’s achievement of objectives (See Section 3.2).

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

A: Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The DPG’s description of the poverty and social impact appropriately does not focus
specifically on the one-year timeframe of the operation. The PAD provides a Table 6 (Annex
7.B) describing the potential impact from the overall objectives within each theme, as well as
distributional impact, but it is an indirect poverty impact discussion with a longer timeframe. The
poverty benefits discussed relate to progress towards achieving the overall objective of the
themes, and less to the prior actions and activities that were specifically financed with DPG
resources within each theme. For example, under Theme 1, the actions establishing a MTFF,
reorganizing the Budget Department to better reflect ANDS priorities, and restoring procurement
oversight through the Procurement Law 2008, set an enabling environment, but will not alone
ensure higher allocative efficiency, or increase the efficiency and transparency in the budget
implementation altogether or within the one-year period. The project document acknowledges
that improvements to the quality of life of the population, as a result of greater public expenditure
efficiency, are expected to be medium- to long-term.

This project did not specifically target gender issues.

B: Institutional Change and Strengthening

The process of negotiation and implementation of the DPG strengthened the Ministry of
Finance’s donor coordination role and built capacity in the office of the Deputy Minister for
budget support programs. This was an important positive outcome of the operation that was not
explicitly envisioned in the project documents. This role and capacity of the ministry are
particularly relevant in the Afghan context where the government has to deal with several donors
and multiple budget support programs with triggers and milestones, including the IMF’s PRGF,
the ADB program, and the World Bank’s ARTF’s Incentive Program. The ministry is now
playing a more active role in the dialogue around budget support with donors. Currently, it is
seeking to create greater synergies across reform programs and to avoid overlap by attempting to
aggregate, negotiate, and endorse a more comprehensive policy package. The DPG process built
capacity in the institution, in terms of its ability to monitor and evaluate the progress of actions,
and reinforced its coordinating role across line ministries and relevant agencies. The operation
strengthened the ministry’s leadership role and ability to coordinate and implement a
comprehensive reform program involving several stakeholders, in compliance with the reporting
standards of international donors.

C: Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

The DPG became beneficially perceived as an endorsement for the government’s ability to
be accountable for a larger share of on-budget donor contributions. While all World Bank
budget support and funding is on-budget, approximately two-thirds of all public spending and
donor contributions by-pass Afghan government systems. The shared perception across the
international community is that fiduciary risks are significant, and the deterioration of perception
of corruption indicators has put pressure on the government to be even more accountable for


                                                                                                  16
donor funds. Constantly, the Ministry of Finance finds itself in a situation where discretionary
resources are limited and the preferencing of donor contributions to particular projects in the
development budget is what drives public investment spending patterns. In this sense, the
provision of discretionary budget support through this DPG, and the World Bank-administered
on-budget ARTF trust fund contribution, were widely seen as an endorsement of the
government’s ability to be accountable for donor contributions. The World Bank, through its
public financial management project, has provided resources and technical assistance to
strengthen the oversight within the Afghan PFM system. Therefore, the DPG’s contribution and
the fact that it was on-budget sent a positive signal encouraging other donors to consider
providing greater unpreferenced, on-budget funding.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes

Rating: The risks to the development outcome are considered “significant”.

These risks are related mainly to factors outside of the operation, and unrelated to its design or
suitability for the Afghan context.

Security remains the main threat to the sustainability of World Bank operations in
Afghanistan. Considering the country’s security situation, the risks associated with undertaking a
development policy grant under such circumstances are diverse and significant. It is the most
serious concern, with an adverse impact on all elements of public life, including donor
engagement, macroeconomic management, and legitimacy of the Afghan state. This assessment
of uncertain sustainability remains valid for the achievements under this DPG, and security
arrangements have arguably deteriorated further.

Political risks are significant and could undermine the government’s reform momentum.
This is because the fluid political situation in Afghanistan could slow the government’s decision-
making. It was evident after the 2009 Presidential election that the delays surrounding the
appointment of the new Cabinet and lengthy process of ratification of ministers by Parliament,
stopped decision-making in some ministries, for over six months, in some cases. Two other clear
examples are the delayed announcement of results from the electoral commission after the 2010
Parliamentary election and the failure to elect a House Speaker for the newly-sworn Parliament in
2011. It is often the case that unforeseen political incidents pose an obstacle to the government’s
reform agenda.

The change of leadership at the Ministry of Finance would risk the sustainability of
outcomes. It is a fact that the ministry is championing the overall public financial management
and public administration reforms, and a change of leadership could undermine the process. The
measures supported by this DPG were processes within a wider reform agenda that is a work-in-
progress that will take time to consolidate. Across all three themes, the ownership of the ministry,
the DPG focal point team and the Minister himself, were a crucial to progress, and their absence
could leave the process to flounder.

Macroeconomic risk can threaten the sustainability of reforms. The Afghan economy is very
vulnerable to external shocks, due to its heavy reliance on agriculture, and to macro-shocks and
unforeseen incidents, such as beset Kabul Bank, that can derail government reform. The Kabul

                                                                                                 17
Bank crisis was severe enough to postpone a decision on the IMF’s new Extended Credit-relief
Facility (ECF), which led to it lapsing in September 2010, and the country faced an unforeseen
situation that may have undermined its macroeconomic framework.8

Fiduciary risks and vulnerabilities to corruption are significant. Fiduciary risks and
corruption continue to pose a significant risk to all Afghan budget support operations and could
undermine the achievement of important goals. The team addressed these concerns by
internalizing within the grant measures aimed at increasing transparency and strengthening
accountability, in order to reduce vulnerabilities. This was in addition to the institutional reforms
to improve fiduciary procedures, financial reporting, and transparent procurement, that were
supported by the PSIB II and III operations. 9 In this sense, the DPG directly contributed to
improving the application of good practice in The Government’s PFM.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 World Bank Performance

A: Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: The World Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry was “satisfactory”. The rating
is based on the following considerations:

Strategic Relevance and Approach: The operation was focused and targeted the direct
relationship between fiscal/PFM issues and P&G reform. It was directly relevant to the Afghan
ISN and complemented well the overall PFM reform underway that was supported by the World
Bank’s PFM project and other donor projects. Thus, the approach ensured there was training and
technical assistance in place to assist the government in implementing the PFM program.

Design: The design of a single-tranche operation was appropriate given the country’s
circumstances at the time. This stand-alone DPG was designed to disburse only after the
fulfillment of all prior actions, which were significantly stronger and more meaningful than those
comprising the previous PSIB series of operations. It was conceived as a bridge between the
previous series and a future generation of programmatic budget support operations, once the
direction of the post-election government became clearer. This course of action helped mitigate
some of the most pressing risks, which were the deteriorating security situation and the political
implications of the 2009 election, as well as maintaining the momentum of the government’s




8
  The biggest private sector bank, Kabul Bank, which is used for payment of salaries to civil servants, had a run on its
deposits on September 2010 and lost all its liquidity in a week. The Kabul Bank crisis put on hold a decision on the
IMF’s new Extended Credit-relief Facility (ECF) and showed the limited capacity of the Central Bank to ensure
regulatory oversight. The government moved rapidly to reassure depositors. Though reliable estimates of loss of
liquidity and size of the affected loan portfolio are not known, if they are significant, the bailout could impose a
significant fiscal burden.

9
  Institutional reforms supported by the PSIB II and III included the establishment of key government bodies, such as
the Public Procurement Unit, the Procurement Appeal and Review Committee Panel, and the Special Procurement
Commission (SPC) for large-value contracts.


                                                                                                                    18
reform program and maintaining and deepening policy dialogue. Finally, the operation allowed
adequate time for the completion of the various steps.

Fiduciary Aspects: The fiduciary arrangements were adequate and followed OPCS’ good
practice for development policy operations. Thus, the full amount of the grant reached the
country’s budget and the control environment of the Central Bank was considered satisfactory.
The World Bank task team’s extensive knowledge of the PFM system rightfully assessed that no
additional fiduciary arrangements were necessary. The financing agreement gave IDA the right to
require an audit of the Foreign Currency Deposit Account (which was not requested). In
addition, the task team internalized within the grant measures to reduce corruption vulnerabilities,
increase transparency, and strengthen accountability. Increasing financial accountability in the
management of public finances constituted a main theme of the DPG, with an emphasis on
strengthening the internal audit function.

Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The design of the M&E framework focused
strongly on inputs and processes rather than impact. While this was understandable in the context
of a single-tranche, one-year operation, there still was a blurry link between the selected key
progress indicators and their actual impact on the objectives which made it more difficult to
assess what outcomes were actually achieved. The M&E arrangements within the government’s
policy matrix could have given a clearer picture on the evidence required to declare a benchmark
met.

Risk Assessment: The PAD appropriately and accurately identified the magnitude and
complexity of risks associated with this operation. The risks were significant given the uncertain
circumstances surrounding budget support operations in Afghanistan. These included the risks
related to political, security, macroeconomic management, and capacity constraints. Most
importantly, the team took steps to mitigate these risks, internalizing within the operation’s
design ways to mitigate them (Section 4).

B: Quality of Supervision

Rating: The quality of supervision was considered “satisfactory”.

The project supervision was adequate. The task team carried out a supervision mission in
October 2009, prepared an aide memoire, and continuously monitored progress through regular
video-conference meetings and on-the-ground presence. Having an early mission helped identify
gaps and need for action and served to raise issues timeously with authorities. During the
implementation phase a Senior Economist remained present and in regular dialogue with the DPG
focal team at the Ministry of Finance. An Implementation Supervision Report (ISR) was prepared
by March 2010 that, along with the supervision mission’s Aide Memoire, realistically assessed
progress on all components and gave the authorities written indications of where they were
lagging or surpassing their goals.

C: Justification of Rating for Overall World Bank Performance

Rating: The overall performance was rated “satisfactory”.

This ICR assesses that both quality at entry and supervision were satisfactory, based on the
discussion in sections 5.1 and 5.2 and that the shortcomings were minor, which merits an overall
satisfactory rating.


                                                                                                 19
5.2 Borrower Performance

A: Government Performance

Rating: The government’s performance was rated “satisfactory”.

The government showed a strong commitment to the operation, was responsive in all
matters related to the preparation and implementation, and showed a strong sense of
ownership overall. The government offered considerable support during the preparation of the
operation, committed significant resources and dedicated ample time to the process. The fact that
implementation of the project coincided with an election year was particularly burdensome for
the government, yet, it did not shirk in its commitment and support. The dialogue with the World
Bank was constant and frank. However, there was a minor shortcoming in a lack of consensus
between the Ministry of Finance and other agencies (notably the IDLG) over sub-national fiscal
reform. The Budget Department, and the ministry as a whole, appeared to not fully support or
engage in the formulation of the Subnational Governance Policy by IDLG.

B: Implementing Agency, or Agencies, Performance

Rating: The government’s performance was rated as “satisfactory”.

For the purpose of this operation, the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable.

The implementing agency for the DPG was the Ministry of Finance, and the office of the
Deputy Minister was the focal point. There was strong government ownership throughout the
preparation and implementation of this operation, which set the basis for a sound attempt to
achieve its overall objectives. The advisor to the Minister played an important role in
coordinating with other government stakeholders and held follow-up meetings to discuss the
progress and overall implementation of the prior actions and policy actions. The Minister of
Finance was also directly involved and made personal commitments to the operation. His
appointment as champion for the EITI for Afghanistan was a notable example. Other units within
the ministry, such as the Fiscal Policy Unit, the Budget Department, and Internal Audit, as well as
the Civil Service Commission, played an active role to ensure that actions in the policy matrix
were implemented in a timely manner, while providing the World Bank team with timely data
and the evidence required for it to perform its supervisory role.

There was direct oversight for program implementation by the office of the Minister of
Finance. Upon the completion of the supervision mission, after which the final attached M&E
matrix was agreed upon and shared with authorities, counterparts at Minstry of Finance
conducted follow–up meetings with the respective implementing agencies. The World Bank’s
task-team leader participated in one during October 2009 that monitored the progress on key
outcome indicators. The Deputy Minister was responsible for calling internal supervision
meetings, and his team included the Director-General Budget, DG Treasury, and DG Internal
Audit. Meetings were held with relevant parties and line ministries to discuss the issue related to
the development budget execution and the ARTF’s eligibility ratio that, as explained earlier,
showed adverse trends.

C: Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: The overall borrower performance was rated as “satisfactory”.


                                                                                                20
This rating is based on the satisfactory performance of the government, with the minor
shortcoming discussed in Section 5.2.

6. Lessons Learned

The evidence reviewed by this ICR suggests that a development policy grant can work well
in a high risk environment. Both the assessments of previous budget support operations, the
programmatic PSIB series ICR, and this DPG show that the instrument can be designed in ways
that mitigate the significant risks, while still having a meaningful reform program. Also, in
deciding whether to move forward with a programmatic series versus a stand –alone operation
one has to carefully assess political risks. This DPG succesfully mitigated political risks, the
uncertainty of an election year, by designing the DPG as a stand-alone operation. But, in times of
less uncertainty, pursuing a programmatic series may be a more appropriate approach that can
have a wider impact with reforms that have more of a medium-term time horizon.

Strong government ownership determined progress and the sustainability of reforms. The
operation was more sucessful in areas where there was a stronger sense of ownership at the
Ministry of Finance. Overall, ownership by the government was strong, with the DPG team in the
Minister's office engaging constantly with stakeholders, and the Minister of Finance even taking
on personal commitments. This ownership has to be established at the preparatory stage. Thus,
by involving counterparts early in the preparation phase, the operation can ensure a common
understanding of what is expected of them during implementation.

Sustainability of outcomes will depend on further support for these reforms. This ICR’s
assement of the risks to the sustainability of outcomes suggests the need for a follow-up
instrument to consolidate the gains and take account of the overall medium-term objectives of the
wider PFM and public administration reforms. These reforms are not fully consolidated, and
without follow-up action the processes supported by this operation could revert – particularly
those related to the legal and regulatory framework.

World Bank budget support operations can leverage larger amounts of on-budget donor
funding. An important, unintended outcome of this DPG was the signal it sent to the donor
community that the World Bank felt Afghan Authorities could be accountable for a larger share
of donor contributions. The donors perceived the Bank’s willingness to provide budget support as
an endorsement, which served to encourage others to consider channeling more resources through
the Afghan budget. This important outcome is at the heart of the country’s Interim Strategy Note
and increasing on-budget funding is a stated government objective from the Kabul Conference
2010.

While the reform was satisfactory overall, considerable weaknesses remain in the areas of
budget execution and compliance with fiduciary standards. It is crucial that future support
looks into the bottlenecks that drive down development-budget execution and lower compliance
with fiduciary standards, as indicated by the ARTF eligibility data. Both of these indicators
suggest drawbacks in areas where donors and the Bank have provided significant support. This
remains a concern, and the ARTF needs to continue exploring ways of introducing incentives for
greater complicance with these standards.

Progress depends on providing technical assistance during the implementation phase. Most
of the reforms in this operation touched upon areas where active projects were providing support,
which eased their implementation. A case in point is that of the DG Budget and Internal Audit


                                                                                               21
sections at the Ministry of Finance receiving technical assistance from donors for several years,
that has built capacity; from initiatives such as the Bank’s Public Financial Management and
Adam Smith International’s PFM projects. As a result, government counterparts were able to
better understand the reform program and could draw on the technical support from these
projects during implementation. Likewise, the Civil Service Commission benefitted from support
received from existing projects that enabled it to pursue the reforms under its mandate.

Identifying a focal point team for the reform program strengthened accountability and built
institutional knowledge. In an environment such as Afghanistan’s it is difficult to build
institutional knowledge, given the constant rotation of advisors and consultants. However, it is
crucial that these processes are sustained and that institutional knowledge is retained. There needs
to be continuity in reforms and a clear understanding of the big-picture issues. Establishing a
focal-point team consisting of the Deputy Minister and members of the Minister’s office, , gave
the finance ministry a sense of accountability for the program; it facilitated engagement with the
task team and ensured it was driven from within the government.

Presence on the ground was a crucial element of success. The operation touched upon areas
that required very specific technical expertise on PFM and auditing standards. Thus, given the
capacity contraints within government, authorities required continous engagement and hand-
holding during implementation. The adequate supervision arrangements and on-the-ground
presence ensured that counterparts understood the reforms and had a continuous dialogue about
the steps required to meet the benchmarks.

Harmonization of donor budget support programs in a low-capacity environment is crucial.
In a low-capacity context such as Afghanistan’s, there are few units or teams that can constantly
engage with donors and understand the implementation of a budget-support program. Therefore,
closer coordination with other donors and even the aggregation of instruments can ensure that
government capacity is not overextended. During the implementation of this DPG, the same
implementing units within the Ministry of Finance were also dealing with the ARTF’s Incentive
Program, the IMF’s PRGF, and the ADB’s budget-support program. It put a heavy burden on
government officials that were already struggling to meet the responsibilities of their posts. Donor
fragmentation and multiple implementation of programs can hinder and undermine the quality of
public administration.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrowers, Implementing Agencies and
Partners

A: Borrowers and Implementing Agencies

Regarding the Borrowers notes on the functioning of the Internal Audit Department (annex 4,
section 3.15), the team agrees with description of progress made to date. At the same time it
should be recognized that most progress is to be attributed to the Ministry of Finance.
Experiences with work in other line Ministries indicate persisting weaknesses in internal audit
functions.

The Borrower provides a good explanation of the handling of fiduciary risk in a high risk
environment (annex 4, section 3.1.4). Additionally it should be noted that the weak staff capacity
is compounded by a high turnover of financial management staff. It is generally difficult to attract
staff with appropriate qualification and experience for regular civil service positions in an
environment characterized by strong demand from donor financed projects outside of the civil

                                                                                                 22
service system. There is consequently a high rate of turnover which renders even the best PFM
system partially ineffective. The gap between demand and supply of critical FM skills continue to
be a challenge for line Ministries in the medium-term.


B: Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

C: Other Partners and Stakeholders
(e.g., NGOs, the private sector and civil society)




                                                                                              23
Annex 1. World Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

A: Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
Names                      Title                              Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Birgit Hansl (TTL)         Senior Economist                   SASEP

Supervision
 William Byrd              Adviser                            OPCFC
 Deepal Fernando           Senior Procurement Specialist      SARPS
 David C. Freese           Senior Finance Officer             CTRFC
 Richard Spencer Hogg      Adviser                            SASGP
 Yoichiro Ishihara         Senior Economist                   OPCAE
 Ranjana Mukherjee         Senior Public Sector Specialist    SASGP
 Sheila Braka Musiime      Sr Counsel                         LEGOP
 Hamish Antony David Nixon Consultant                         SASDU
 Marco Scuriatti           Senior Operations Officer          AFCS1
 Muhammad Shafiq           Program Assistant                  SASEP
 Paul Edwin Sisk           Lead Financial Management Spec.    SARFM
 Oleksiy A. Sluchynskyy    Senior Economist                   SASSP
 Michael C. Stanley        Lead Mining Specialist             SEGOM
 Anne Tully                Senior Operations Officer          OPCFC
 Roland White              Sr Institutional Dev. Spec.        SASDU
ICR
Camilo Gomez Osorio (TTL) Economist                           SASEP


B: Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage                                                         USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
              FY09                             26.2                      135.7
              FY10                              4                         14.8
Total:                                         30.2                      150.5
ICR
              FY11                             12.8                       38.2
Total:                                         12.8                       38.2




                                                                                         24
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable.

Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable.




                                                   25
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                                Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
                                      Ministry of Finance


                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                FOR
        STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT
                            DECEMBER 2010


1.      Introduction
During 2009-2010, the Government of Afghanistan completed the development policy grant
(Strengthening Institutions Development Policy Grant). This implementation completion report
summarizes the government’s assessments of the reform objectives, the outcomes attained, an
assessment of the World Bank support and performance, lessons learned, and suggested reform
areas for the future.

Before 2005-2007, the Government of Afghanistan completed implementation of the three series
of Programmatic Support to Institutional Building (PSIB I-III), with each operation providing
rolling budget support of US$80million with a specific set of triggers which, when met, created
the basis for proceeding with the next operation. While the prime emphasis of the PSIB series
was to enhance public finance management, this DPG focused on a broader and more diverse set
of reform areas.

2.      Assessment of the DPG Objectives and Outcomes

The overall objectives of the DPG were to bring improvements in the following areas:
       Improving the budget process and medium-term fiscal planning
       Enhancing financial management and fiduciary standards and increasing accountability
through a more transparent and improved auditing function
       Improving human resource management
       Strengthening sub-national fiscal functions
       Instituting measures that increase the ability to assess and collect taxes and royalties from
mining

3.      The Government Assessment of the Objectives
The Government views the DPG as a critical reform package focusing on a number of priority
areas for reform. The objectives were set after consultation with the relevant authorities in the
Government ensuring acceptance and ownership as demonstrated by the satisfactory achievement
of most of the reform objectives. The DPG objectives also focused on areas of reform that had not
been covered under budget support operations such as the improvement of the human resource
management of the Government, sub-national fiscal functions and reforms in the mining sector.



3.1.    Outcomes

                                                                                                  26
3.1.1.   Macroeconomic Performance

3.1.2.   Improved Budget Process and Medium-Term Fiscal Planning

The Ministry of Finance submitted the MTFF, along with the 1388 (2008/09) national budget to
Parliament, allowing policy and decision makers to review the medium term fiscal sustainability
of government policies, and also assisting with transparency. An updated MTFF was sent to
Parliament along with the budget 45 days prior to the start of the year, as required by the PFEM
law. The MTFF has now become a central policy tool in the national budget cycle.

The Fiscal Policy Unit of the MoF included estimates of the medium term costs of the Pay and
Grading (P&G) reform by developing a costing model for the P&G reforms after consultations
with IARCSC and the World Bank technical team to agree on assumptions. The FPU at MoF
developed a close working relationship with IARCSC and a joint working group met roughly
once per month. Moreover, this led to capacity building on part of FPU since they worked closely
with the WB consultants. Using this experience, other costing assumptions have been developed
for the MTFF (i.e. security, martyrs and disabled pensions). In order to make the MTFF more
effective and persuasive, there need to be presentations to Cabinet and Parliament on the MTFF
so that they fully understand the medium-term implications of spending decisions.

During the appropriation of the 1388 budget, the DPG target for development budget execution
was realistic. However, the low execution during 1388 was due to unexpected factors influencing
Government operations. Although the operating budget execution target was reasonably met with
a 91% execution rate, the core development budget could only achieve 39% against a target of
65%. Some of the extraordinary factors contributing to low development budget execution
included the lengthened and delayed presidential election, a large carry-over of unspent budget
from the previous year (2008/09), and a delay by the Parliament in approving the mid-year
revised budget.

Learning from the previous year’s lessons, the budget department stretched back the budget
calendar, starting the budget appropriation process from April in order to allow enough time for
line ministries to prepare and Parliament to approve the next year budget. Moreover, the Minister
of Finance with a team of concerned people form MoF, ARDS, MoEc and other relevant agencies
has engaged with and visited the biggest spending line ministries during the current year to
identify the impediments in budget execution and find solutions to overcome them.

A Pre-budget Report (available on www.budgetmof.gov.af) was prepared for the SY 1389 budget.
This contained an updated MTFF and budgetary ceilings for all line ministries / budgetary units
for the SY 1389 budget. Continuing this practice, the pre-budget report for 2011/12 was prepared
earlier and approved by Cabinet. It is considered to be an important tool by the Budget
Committee of Parliament in the SY 1390 budget hearings. It is noteworthy that the inclusion of
the DPG benchmark has been an important reason for the development and continuation of this
practice.

3.1.3. Improved Human Resource Management
The physical targets for re-grading of Ministries/Agencies have been met. At the time of this
report, 15 ministries/agencies have completed Pay and Grading with all posts re-graded and the
Pay and Grading proposals fully approved. The proposal for IDLG is pending approval. Work
continues to progress well with increasing levels of competency and quality of work by the P & G
teams.


                                                                                              27
To ensure that verified Government employees are paid on-time in the correct amount, without
payments of salary being made to ‘ghost employees’, the roll-out of the verified payroll plan
(VPP) proceeded ahead of schedule during 1388, and as of October 2010 over 285,000
Government Employees were receiving salary payment via transfer to their bank account across
28 of 34 Provinces.

3.1.4. Enhancing Financial Management and Improved fiduciary standards
ARTF Monitoring was completed for 1388, and the results reported through the ARTF Trust
Fund Administrator. From 1387-1388 there has been a slight improvement in the eligibility ratio.
A review of reports of the Monitoring Agent has been carried out in the Treasury Department to
identify systemic issues resulting in ineligibility. The Treasury Department has been working
with the Director-Generals Finance in Line Ministries and the Procurement Policy Unit to discuss
and follow-up on systemic issues, including the release of letters and circulars.

Associated with the enactment of the procurement law, short courses and workshops were
conducted. The audience of these workshops and courses included auditors, provincial financial
officers and Mostofis.

In an effort to establish and ensure continuity of a transparent and accountable IT-based public
procurement system in the country, standard bidding documents have been utilized, increasing
transparency in procurement procedures in the line ministries and minimizing disputes and
ambiguity in the process. Capacity has also been built in the procuring entities and awareness has
been created on the public procurement law and procedures.

3.1.5.   Increasing Transparency and Improving Auditing Functions

The Internal Audit Department (IAD) of MoF has improved under the DPG. IAD carried out an
AFMIS audit to determine whether its structure, policies, and procedures help to ensure the
proper operation, implementation, data integrity, and security of the AFMIS system, as
maintained by the Treasury Directorate of MoF. Besides some general control weaknesses and
shortage of professional & technical IT personnel, no major risk or direct threat to the system was
identified. It was found that the AFMIS works successfully and smoothly, providing real time
connection to 46 line ministries & 24 provinces with the very limited technical IT staff (all 34
provinces are now connected to AFMIS). However, it is recommend for an assessment / survey
be conducted for the purpose of attaining actual requirement of technical personnel for smooth,
successful and uninterruptible AFMIS system throughout whole Afghanistan.

As part of the DPG target, A Fraud Investigation Unit was established within IAD to ensure
transparency, accountability and corruption control from within the various departments of MoF.
Significant outcomes have been achieved by this department and in the solar year 1388 a total of
86 investigations were carried upon various complaints received from the complaints unit of the
Ministry of Finance.

3.1.6. Strengthening sub-national fiscal functions
Strengthening of sub-national fiscal functions was and remains an important policy objective of
the Government. Under the DPG, the aim was to have completed a draft strategic sub-national
financing framework. To a great extent, this was achieved with the approval by Cabinet in March
2010 of the Sub-national Governance (SNG) Policy. The Policy covers a whole range of sub-
national issues, of which sub-national fiscal relations is an important part.


                                                                                                28
Whilst the overall policy was finalized and passed by Cabinet, it can still be considered that the
details of sub-national fiscal relations are still in draft form. The Ministry of Finance has been
continuing with its Provincial Budgeting Initiative, aspects of which have been in partnership
with the World Bank. The key principles of Provincial Budgeting and the SNG policy are very
much aligned. In both, the Government is seeking to make allocations for spending at the sub-
national level more objective, equitable and transparent.

3.1.7.   Instituting measures for taxes and royalties related to mining

Afghanistan achieved candidate status of the EITI in early 2010. The Minister of Finance was
appointed as the Afghanistan Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (AEITI) champion.
The Government set up the institutional structure of the AEITI with the secretariat housed in
Ministry of Finance. The budget and work plan for the AEITI was approved and submitted to
EITI secretariat. AEITI multi-stakeholder committee with representatives from the civil society
has been appointed. Already three multi-stakeholder meetings have been convened. A baseline
inventory of companies in the extractive industries in Afghanistan and list of mine titles with
specifications (permit number, company name and address, mine location) have been published
on MoF’s website. AEITI’s website is under construction and will be up soon. This progress is
evidence of Afghanistan’s strong and continued commitment to improving transparency in this
area that will gain more and more importance over the coming years.

4.       Lessons Learned

The implementation of the DPG and predecessor budget support operations by the World Bank
has benefited the Government in a number of areas. Besides provision of critical discretionary
funds for the unfunded national priority areas, the DPG operation has contributed to reforms of
line ministries through reviews of their structures, and implementation of a merit-based P&G to
attract qualified and quality employees, and hence delivering better services. It has also
strengthened the budget process greatly and has laid the foundation for better fiscal forecasting
through the MTFF.

Key lessons learned from DPG operations has been the need for greater collaboration and
partnership between the participating agencies/departments and Ministry of Finance. A key lesson
learned in reference to training on complex procedures and laws (such as procurement law) was
that more work and preparation in explanation is required. Another lesson related to reform is that
greater emphasis needs to be placed on expected quality levels. Furthermore, a proper
communications strategy and provision of required resources help in reaching to the stakeholders
and creating an environment conducive to change and reform.

The Government acknowledges that greater progress could have been achieved in increasing
development execution spending, strengthening sub-national functions, and decreasing ARTF
ineligible spending. However, the government is committed to reforms and will pursue remedial
actions in these areas through successor reform programs or otherwise.

5.       Assessment of the Government’s Performance

The implementation of the Strengthening Institutions Development Policy Grant has helped the
Government of Afghanistan further the reform agenda. Continuing on the PFM reforms during
the PSIB series, the Strengthening Institutions Development Policy Grant further expanded the
reforms into areas like transparency in mining revenues and public administration. The DPG-

                                                                                                29
supported reforms contributed to improving public finance management, enhancing fiduciary
standards, improved budget planning and medium-term fiscal forecast, human resource
management in public sector and transparency in mining revenues.

The government performance has improved, partly due to the DPG validated by the improved
country performance assessment (CPA by ADB). Moreover, given the reforms aimed at
strengthening the budget performance, Afghanistan has shown improvements on the Open Budget
Index (from 8% to 21% in 2008 - 2010).

Despite the progress, limited capacity in the government agencies, although improving, has
proven detrimental in achievement of some of the reform areas. And to conclude, almost all of the
reform targets have been achieved.

6.      Assessment of the World Bank’s Performance

The Government is grateful to the World Bank for assisting in the preparation and
implementation of the DPG. The expertise that the Bank brought and the quality of supervision
and advice provided during the operation meant that most of the reform targets were met. Regular
supervision and DPG missions resulted in a number of useful recommendations. The Government
is particularly thankful for the open and frank discussions concluded with the World Bank DPG
team. The relevant Government officials and entities have benefited immensely and deepened
their understanding of the reform areas covered.

The World Bank provided generous support throughout the operation to the relevant departments.
For example, the internal audit department (IAD) of Ministry of Finance acknowledges the World
Bank support as very helpful in the achievement of the targets relevant to them and in increasing
accountability and transparency of public finances. However, a shortfall in the World Bank
management, communication and cooperation resulted in delays in issuance of NOLs in
appointment of international consultants (IARCSC) which should be remedied in the succeeding
operations.

7.      Proposed Arrangements for the future

Given the effectiveness of the development policy operations and following the discussions
during the mission (Sept 19 – Oct 1, 2010), the government welcomes further development policy
operations in the future. As discussed with the World Bank team, the government supports reform
areas in the following important areas:
        Mining Sector Reforms;
        Justice Sector Reforms;
        ICT Sector Reforms;
        Custom Reforms and Reforms in Ministries collection Non-tax Revenues

The Government sees the development policy grant operations of the World Bank as an excellent
tool for reforms and would like to emphasize the importance of continuation of World Bank
budget support for the provision of critical discretionary resources that can be utilized to fund
priority programs that would have remained otherwise unfunded. The government also prefers a
series of development policy operations, rather than stand-alone operations as many reform areas
that require more time and effort can be undertaken through a series. Moreover, the government
finds it particularly useful to keep the frank and open dialogue with the Bank, which has
developed over the budget support operations in the recent.

                                                                                               30
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                                                    31
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Program Document, May 2009 (Report No. 48167-AF)

Financing Agreement, Grant H501-AF, Strengthening Institutions Development Policy Grant,
July 7, 2009

Aide-Memoire, Identification Mission, October 16, 2008

Implementation Supervision Report (ISR), March 2010

Implementation Completion and Results Report for Programmatic Support for Institution
Building II (PSIB II) and Programmatic Support for Institution Building III (PSIB III), June 20,
2009

Afghanistan Country Interim Strategy Note (ISN, 2009-11).

Afghanistan Economic Update, October 2008, April 2009

Afghanistan Reconstruction Trustfund (ARTF) SY1388, and SY1389 Annual Reports

Afghanistan Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment (PEFA) 2008.

United Nations’ Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Report 2008




                                                                                             32
Annex 7. Monitoring & Evaluation Framework - Progress Indicators for the Strengthening Institutions DPG
                                                               Closing date: August 31, 2010
                                                             Fiscal Year: March 21 – March 20
  Objectives            Prior Actions          Progress Indicators
                         By May 2009                                          Baseline             Target           Monitoring and                 Progress
                                               Over next 12 months            SY1387             August 2010          Evaluation
                                                   2009-2010                                                         Arrangement




1.1 Improving     (1) The government has:     (a) The MOF-IARCSC         First meeting in      Once per month        The MOF will        a) Completed.
    budget            (i) submitted to            working group on       April 2009                                  provide the World   A copy of 1388, 1389 budget
    process and       Parliament a Medium-        the fiscal                                                         Bank with the       documents sent to WB.
    medium-term       Term Fiscal                 implications of the                                                SY1388 budget
    fiscal            Framework (MTFF)            P&G reform is                                                      and MTFF as         The MOF-IARCSC
    planning.         budget statement for        meeting once per                                                   submitted to        committee meets regularly,
                      discussion as part of       month during                                                       Parliament.         on average every 45 days.
                      the Solar Year (SY)         SY1388.                SY1388 submitted      SY1389
                      1388 budget                                        to Parliament in      submitted to       The MOF, co-chairing   b) Completed
                      discussion, which       (b) Timely submission      time                  Parliament in      the joint-working      The SY1389 Budget was
                      includes expenditure        of the SY1389                                time               group, will provide    submitted 45 days before end
                      estimates based on          budget to Parliament                                            the World Bank with    -SY1388 to Parliament.
                      reasonable                  (according to the                                               minutes of each        However, it was only
                      approximations of the       Public Finance and                                              monthly meeting and    approved 45 days within the
                      medium-term cost            Expenditure                                                     request input from     new fiscal year, (Lower
                      impact of the Pay &         Management Law 45                                               World Bank experts     House on April 24).
                      Grading (P&G)               days before end of                                              as needed.
                      reform, and (ii)            fiscal year)           n/a (previously                                                 c) Completed
                      established and             accompanied by an      there was one         Strategy Budget                            Strategic Budget Framework
                      appointed members of        updated MTFF.          Strategy and          Framework for      The government of      1389 report prepared and
                      a joint Ministry of                                Budget                SY1389 prepared    Afghanistan (GOA)      approved by Cabinet
                      Finance (MOF)–          (c) A Strategy and         Framework in          by December        will monitor
                      Independent                 Budget Framework       SY1386)                                  alignment of the
                      Administrative              report feeding into                                             budget and the MTFF    The GOA has taken measures
                      Reform and Civil            the SY1389 budget                                               with the ANDS.         to align spending of the line
                      Service Reform              preparation process    SY1387 operating      SY1388 operating                          ministries according to the
                      Commission                  is developed.          budget: 95 percent,   budget at 90                              objectives of the GOA and




                                                                                                                                                                   33
   Objectives             Prior Actions            Progress Indicators
                           By May 2009                                            Baseline            Target            Monitoring and                  Progress
                                                   Over next 12 months            SY1387            August 2010           Evaluation
                                                       2009-2010                                                         Arrangement


                       (IARCSC) technical                                    SY1387               percent or above,                           ANDS. New approaches of
                       working group on                                      development          SY1388                                      clusters and bankable
                       P&G reform                 (d) Implementation of      budget: 49 percent   development                                 programs are also a new tool
                       implementation.                SY1388 operating                            budget at 60                                to prioritise government
                                                      budget at 90 percent                        percent or above                            spending and align with
                    (2) The Budget                    or above (baseline                                                                      ANDS.
                        Department is                 SY1387: 95 percent)
                        reorganized along lines       actual expenditure                                                                      Within Budget Directorate, a
                        of the Afghanistan            of original budget.                                                                     comprehensive business plan
                        National Development          Implementation of                                                                       is being formulated to
                        Strategy (ANDS)               SY1388 core                                                                             monitor and evaluate
                        priority sectors with         development budget                                                                      performance of individual
                        the view to ensuring          at 60 percent or                                                                        units’ work relating to the
                        that: (i) the budget          above (baseline                                                                         budgetary activities.
                        becomes an                    SY1387: 49 percent)
                        implementation                actual expenditure                                                                      d) Partially Completed
                        instrument for the            of original budget.                                                                     Development budget
                        ANDS; and (ii) is                                                                                                     execution rate was 39
                        approved by                                                                                                           percent; operating budget
                        Parliament in a timely                                                                                                execution rate 90 percent.
                        manner.
1.2 Enhance         (3) Enactment of              (a) Procurement                                 SY1388:             The GOA will work       a) Partially Completed.
    financial           Amendments to the             manual finalized                            Procurement         on further              Prepared, but not published
    management          2008 Procurement              and published.                              manual published    improvements of the     and awaiting manual
    and fiduciary       Law providing for,                                                                            Procurement Law,        modifications, incorporating
    standards.          inter alia, the                                                           SY1388: SBDs        including stakeholder   WB comments.
                        reinstatement of                                                          disseminated        consultations, as
                        transparency of the                                                                           needed, and will        The GOA will work on
                        procurement process                                                                           monitor progress in     further improvements of the
                        with respect to low-                                                                          procurement with        Procurement Law, including
                        value procurement;                                                                            input from the World    stakeholder consultations, as
                        and reissuance of a                                                                           Bank procurement        needed, and will monitor
                        circular restoring                                                        SY1388: IAD         team.                   progress in procurement with



                                                                                                                                                                           34
Objectives     Prior Actions         Progress Indicators
                By May 2009                                       Baseline             Target               Monitoring and                     Progress
                                     Over next 12 months          SY1387             August 2010              Evaluation
                                         2009-2010                                                           Arrangement


             Afghanistan                                                           reports on                                        input from the World Bank
             Reconstruction and                                                    compliance with       The MOF Internal            procurement team.
             Development Services                                                  the ARDS              Audit Department will
             (ARDS) procurement     (b) Standard Bidding                           circular,             substantiate that the
             oversight.                 Documents (SBDs)                           established a         ARDS circular was           b) Completed.
                                        completed and                              baseline for          complied with in            SBDs completed and
                                        disseminated.                              SY1388                SY1388 and report           disseminated for:
                                                                                                         results to the World        (i) Health sector goods;
                                                                                                         Bank Public Financial       (ii) Non-consultancy services,
                                                                                                         Management (PFM)            being translated for
                                                                                                         Specialist.                 publishing.

                                                                                                                                     Awaiting WB comments:
                                                                                                                                     (i) Large works;
                                    c) The Internal Audit                                                                            (ii) Plants Procurement
                                    Department (IAD) at                                                                              Manual (Goods, Works and
                                    MOF reports on                                                                                   Consultant Services).
                                    compliance with the
                                    ARDS circular, which                                                                             c) Completed. The MOF
                                    will establish a                                                                                 Internal Audit Department
                                    baseline for SY1388.                                                                             reports the ARDS circular
                                                             SY1387 ARTF                                                             was complied with in
                                    (d) Improved fiduciary   recurrent cost        SY1388 ARTF                                       SY1388 and report results
                                    standards: SY1388        window                recurrent cost        The independent             sent to the WB -PFM
                                    expenditures eligible    reimbursement         window                Monitoring Agent            specialist.
                                    for Afghanistan          eligibility ratio -   reimbursement         (MA) for the ARTF
                                    Reconstruction Trust     wages: 89 percent;    eligibility ratio -   will provide the GOA        d) Completed. The report of
                                    Fund (ARTF),             other, 62 percent     wages: above 85       and World Bank with         the independent MA for the
                                    recurrent cost window                          percent; other,       quarterly reports on        ARTF:
                                    reimbursement as a                             above 60 percent      the eligibility ratio for   Salary eligibility ratio 89.1
                                    percentage of all                                                    reimbursable                percent;
                                    submitted                                                            expenditure under the       non-salary eligibility ratio
                                    expenditures for wages                                               ARTF recurrent cost         60.4 percent. Trends show




                                                                                                                                                                 35
  Objectives            Prior Actions             Progress Indicators
                         By May 2009                                             Baseline             Target          Monitoring and                  Progress
                                                 Over next 12 months             SY1387             August 2010         Evaluation
                                                     2009-2010                                                         Arrangement


                                                above 85 percent, and                                               window.                deterioration in the eligibility
                                                other, above 60                                                                            ratio of the ARTF over past
                                                percent (baseline                                                                          three years.
                                                SY1387 89 percent and
                                                62 percent,
                                                respectively).
2.1 Improve       (4) Official gazetting of a   (a) Number of               SY1387: 5             SY1388: 10          The IARCSC will      a) Completed. 15 ministries
    human             new Civil Servant             ministries that         ministries finished   ministries          provide the World    regraded with Cabinet
    resource          Law with new P&G              finished re-grading     re-grading            finished re-        Bank with            approval. 2 Agencies
    management.       scale.                        by end SY1388: 10                             grading             quarterly updates    awaiting approval., but staff
                                                    (baseline SY1387:                                                 on the progress of   not yet reappointed (2nd
                                                    5).                                                               the re-grading       stage)
                  (5) Increase direct                                       SY1387: 258,139                           exercise.
                      deposits under the        (b) Size of civil service                         SY1388: under                            b) Completed. Civil service,
                      GOA Verified                  (non-uniformed)                               300,000                                  according to payroll, below
                      Payroll Plan (VPP)            does not exceed                                                                        300,000. However, civil
                      from 50,801 civil             300,000 anytime in                                                                     service ceilings are above
                      servants at the end of        SY1388.                                                                                330,000
                      SY1386 to at least                                    SY 1387: Draft
                      95,000 by the end of                                  strategy              SY 1388:            The GOA is
                      SY1387.                   (c) Pension                                       regulations         providing the        c) Completed. Regulations
                                                Regulations are                                   approved by         World Bank with      approved by Cabinet (July
                                                approved by Cabinet.                              Cabinet             updates on the       2010)
                                                                                                                      status of the
                                                                                                                      Pension
                                                                                                                      Regulations and
                                                                                                                      works closely with
                                                                            SY1387:141,007                            the Bank’s pension
                                                                                                  SY1388: 180,000     specialist.
                                                                                                                                           d) Completed
                                                (d) Increased number                                                  The independent      The Treasury Department,
                                                    of civil servants                                                 MA for the ARTF      responsible for the VPP, is
                                                    under VPP by at                                                   will provide the     monitoring the number of




                                                                                                                                                                         36
   Objectives              Prior Actions           Progress Indicators
                            By May 2009                                     Baseline       Target          Monitoring and                   Progress
                                                  Over next 12 months       SY1387       August 2010         Evaluation
                                                      2009-2010                                             Arrangement


                                                    least 40,000 in                                        GOA and World          government employees’ bank
                                                    SY1388 (baseline                                       Bank with monthly      accounts for direct deposits
                                                    SY1387: 122,000).                                      reports on the civil   and will certify progress on a
                                                                                                           service head-count     quarterly basis to the World
                                                                                                           (total, uniformed      Bank.
                                                                                                           and non-               Preliminary figures: 250, 000
                                                                                                           uniformed).


2.2 Strengthening   (6) Report assessment of     (a) Completion of a                      SY1388: draft    The MOF will           a) Not Completed.
    sub-national        the provincial               draft strategic sub-                 strategic sub-   work closely with      IDLG prepared the sub-
    fiscal              budgeting pilot is           national financing                   national         the World Bank         national governance policy,
    functions.          issued by the MOF,           framework by end                     financing        sub-national           MOF provided input.
                        developing an                SY1388.                              framework        administration         WB prepared Technical
                        institutional position                                                             team on the            Guidance Note on norms-
                        on sub-national                                                                    strategic sub-         based provincial allocation,
                        financing reform.                                                                  national financing     implementation of the
                                                                                                           framework,             education pilot and a clear,
                                                                                                           including              norm-based budget ceiling for
                                                                                                           provincial             provinces.
                                                                                                           budgeting, and
                                                                                                           monitor progress
                                                                                                           in this area.
3.1 Institute       (7) Cabinet                  (a) The EITI GOA                      EITI GOA            The GOA will set       a) Completed. Minister of
   measures to          announcement to              champion is                       champion is         up the institutional   Financed Appointed
   increase             commit to the                appointed.                        appointed           structure of the
   capacity for         Extractive Industries                                                              EITI and monitor       b) Completed. Multi
   assessing and        Transparency             (b) All members of the                Multi-stake-        progress in setting    stakeholder Committee
   collecting           Initiative (EITI) for        multi-stake-holder                holder EITI         the baseline           appointed, with civil society
   taxes and            Afghanistan.                 EITI steering                     steering            inventory. The         representatives,
   royalties from                                    committee are                     committee           World Bank
   existing and                                      appointed.                        appointed           mining team will       First MSG meeting took
   planned                                                                                                 work closely with      place on May 5; second




                                                                                                                                                             37
Objectives    Prior Actions    Progress Indicators
               By May 2009                                Baseline       Target         Monitoring and                Progress
                               Over next 12 months        SY1387       August 2010        Evaluation
                                   2009-2010                                             Arrangement


mining and                                                                              the GOA and         meeting, Sept. 5, 2010.
quarry                                                                                  provide advice as   .
operations.                                                                             needed.
                                                                                                            c) Completed. Work
                                                                     Approved work                          planned, and budget for EITI
                              (c) Work plan and                      plan and budget                        approved and submitted to
                                  budget for EITI                    for EITI                               EITI secretariat
                                  implementation are                 implementation
                                  approved by the                    handed in to the                       -Afghanistan achieved
                                  multi-stake-holder                 EITI Secretariat                       candidate status on Feb 10,
                                  EITI steering                                                             2010.
                                  committee,                                                                d) Completed.
                                  published and                      Baseline                               Published on the MOF’s
                                  handed in to the                   inventory of                           website
                                  EITI secretariat.                  companies
                                                                     operating in the
                              (d) Create a baseline                  extractive
                                  inventory of                       industries
                                  companies n the                    published
                                  extractive industries
                                  in Afghanistan and
                                  publish a list of all
                                  mine titles with:
                                  permit number, type
                                  of permit, company
                                  name and address,
                                  location of mine, and
                                  commodity.




                                                                                                                                      38
   Objectives             Prior Actions            Progress Indicators
                           By May 2009                                       Baseline       Target         Monitoring and                Progress
                                                   Over next 12 months       SY1387       August 2010        Evaluation
                                                       2009-2010                                            Arrangement


3.2 Increase        (8) Establish in the IAD of   (a) The Internal Audit                SY1388: Internal   The GOA will         a) Completed.
   financial            MOF: (i) a Fraud              plan of MOF for                   Audit plan of      track progress of
   accountability       Investigation Unit            SY1388 includes                   MOF includes       the MOF Internal
   through              (FIU) with a qualified        reviews by the two                reviews by the     Audit Unit in
   transparent          auditor and a training        new IA units, the                 two new IA units   carrying out these
   and improved         program for staff, and        FIU and the IT Audit                                 tasks. The World
   auditing             (ii) an Information           Section.                                             Bank PFM
   function.            Technology (IT) Audit                                           SY1388: Audit of   specialist will      b) Completed. Audit
                        Section.                  (b) An audit of the                   the AFMIS          assist the IAD in    initiated
                                                  Afghanistan Financial                 initiated          the audit process.
                                                  Management
                                                  Information System
                                                  (AFMIS) will be
                                                  initiated in SY1388.




                                                                                                                                                      39
Annex 7.B. Table 1: Poverty and Social Impact (from PAD)
     Goal of DPG’s Pr ior            Size of            Channels and Direction of Impact on                 Main Gainers        Effects
      Actions by Theme             Distribution                  Living Standards                            and Loser s        on the
                                     Effects                                                                                     Poor

  Theme 1: Improve Fiscal         Gradual            (+) On-budget resources are more likely to be        Gainers:              Once
  Policy and Planning and         nature of          aligned with ANDS priorities, including              Beneficiaries of      targeted
  Financial Management            reforms is         poverty-related expenditures. Donors are             priority              pro-
  (1) Establis h the MTFF as      expected to        more likely to put aid funds through                 expenditures, es p.   grams
  a fiscal planning instrument    provide small,     government budget if medium-term planning,           social sectors;       are in
  by identifying medium-term      but positive       budget preparation and budget                        users of public       place
  revenue sources, expected       medium-term        implementation follow transparent processes          services, incl.       poor will
  expenditure pressures           effects.           and provide assurance of adequate fiduciary          infras tructure;      benefit,
  (esp. wage bill), and main                         standards.                                           NGOs working in       but this
  fiscal polic y and financ ing                      (+) Higher allocative efficiency increases           partnership with      is likely
  strategies underlying the                          predictability and reliability of resources for      GOA on service        to be a
  projections.                                       key social sectors. Impact of programs is            delivery.             more
                                                     increased and waste of resources is reduced                                long-
  (2) Preparation of the                                                                                  Losers: Those         term
  budget reflects better                             through lower transaction costs and less             who were
                                                     scattered and uncoordinated projects of the                                effect.
  ANDS sector priorities and                                                                              misusing public
  implementation realities in                        external budget.                                     (on and off-
  line ministries and adheres                        (+) Higher effic iency and transparency in           budget) funds for
  to the legally required                            budget implementation increases likelihood of        personal
  timeline.                                          services reaching the population, incl. the          enrichment or
  (3) Reinstate transparency                         poor.                                                gain; beneficiaries
  of the procurement process                         (-) Newly emerging priorities experienc e            of programs or
  and restore procurement                            funding lac k or delay.                              expenditures that
  oversight under the                                                                                     had to give way to
                                                     (-) Risk that absorptive capacity cannot hold        priorities.
  Procurement Law.                                   pace with increased and prioritized
                                                     expenditures.
  Theme 2: Strengthen             Improved           (+) Merit-based pay and grading leads to             Gainers:              Poor
  Public Administration           quality of civil   more equitable and less distorted public             Motivated and         will
  Reform and Sub-National         service            wages which attract more qualified people and        educated civil        benefit
  Administration                  provides small     retain motivated civil s ervants.                    servants; job         mode-
                                  positive                                                                searc hers, esp.      rately
  (4) Clear responsibilities                         (+) Higher accountability, pos itive incentives
  and rules are defined for       effects in         and better remuneration of civil servants-to         educated youth;       from
  civil servants. Pay and         public service     the extend they provide public services--            public servants       better
  grade levels reflect merit      delivery over      positively affects quality of services.              whose salaries        service
  and provide incentives to       the medium-                                                             were below other      delivery
                                                     (+) Increased transparenc y of payroll reduces
  qualified people to join and    term.                                                                   sectors; us ers of    and
                                                     waste of payroll resources by excluding ghost        public services,      less
  remain in the civil s ervice.   Long term          workers.
                                  medium                                                                  esp. in currently     distor-
  (5) Government’s payroll                           (-) Pay levels too compressed/low to compete         ‘under-funded’        ted
  payments only go to bona        positive
                                  effects on         with donors and attract quality senior staff.        provinces.            labor
  fide employees.                                                                                                               market.
                                  public service     (+) Sub-national financing reforms can lead on       Losers: Ghost,
  (6) Provincial budgeting        delivery           the provincial level to more inclus ive budget       unqualified and
  pilot informs sub-national      through better     preparation, more equitable resource                 overpaid public
  finance strategy for better     sub-national       allocation across provinces and, in effect,          servants;
  servic e delivery on sub-       financ ing.        better sub-national service delivery.                population in
  national level.
                                                     (-) Currently proportionally ‘over-funded’           currently ‘over-
                                                     provinces might receive fewer resources.             funded’ provinces.
  Theme 3: Incr ease              Medium             (+) Investments lead to employment, and              Gainers:              Poor
  Transparency and                effects of         substantial community development spin-offs,         Communities and       will
  Accountability in the           increased          lik e infrastructure and services.                   job searchers in      benefit
  Managem ent of Public           information        (+) Trans parency in revenues from natural           mining and            mode-
  Finances                        about public       resources promotes greater economic and              affected areas;       rately
  (7) Better acc ountability      revenues in        political stability; and ultimately contributes to   users of public       from
  and good governance in          medium to          the prevention of conflict based around the oil,     services;             higher
  the exploitation of natural     long-term.         mining and gas sectors.                              beneficiaries of      eco-
  resources, which in turn        Medium                                                                  social programs.      nomic
                                                     (+) Additional public revenues c an lead to                                activity
  can generate large public       positive and       higher public spending in social and other           Losers: Those
  revenues to foster growth       very visible                                                            who were              and
                                                     sectors, incl. poverty-related spending.                                   poverty-
  and reduce poverty.             short and                                                               misusing public
                                  medium-term        (+) Donors are more likely to put aid funds          revenues and          related
  (8) Decreased misuse of                            through government budget if there is better                               spen-
  public funds through better     effects of                                                              funds for personal
                                  better public      transparency and assurance of proper use of          enrichment or         ding.
  transparency, reliability and                      public funds (see above).
  timeliness of financ ial        financ ial                                                              gain.
  information.                    information.




                                                                                                                                            40
                     60°E                                                                                       65°E                                                                                                                70°E                                                                             75°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                       U Z B E K I STA N                                                                                 Dushanbe                                                 hob




                                                                                                  Am
                                                                                                   uD
                                                                                                        ar y                                                                                                                                                                                 Murg
                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                                                                      TA J I K I STA N
                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                        Chardzhev                                                                                       To                                                             TAJ IK IS TA N
                                                                                                                                                                    To                                                  ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kulob                                                     To Shazud
                                                                                                                                                                 Dushanbe                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                         ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                        Qurghonteppa
                            AFGHANISTAN                                 TUR KM E N I S TA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                             h
                                                                                                                                 ¯
                                                                                                                                 ¯
                                                                                                                            JOWZJAN
                                                                                                                            JAWZJAN                                                                     ndz
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pya
                                                                                                                                                          BALKH                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                KONDOZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                KUNDUZ                                                                        mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Taloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ¯ ¯                                            Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kondoz
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ¯                                                                                           h
                                                                                                                                   Sheberghan
                                                                                                                                           ¯                       Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                   Sharıf
                                                                                                                                                                       ¯                                                   TAKHAR                    ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                                                                     Saripul                                                                                                                                       u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tirich Mir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (7690 m)
                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                       Samangan
                                                                                                                                                                             ¯                                   Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¯                                                K
                                                                                                                Meymaneh
                                                           Mary                                                                                                          ¯
                                                                                                                                                                   SAMANGAN                                        ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                              BAGHLAN
                                                                                                    ¯ YA ¯
                                                                                                  F A R YA B                                                                                             z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         u
                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯o   ndu                                          d                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                              eQ                                                                            Chitral
                          To
                                                                                                                                   UL
                                                                                                                             SAR-E P OL
                                                                                                                              SARIPPOL                                                  a-
                                                                                                                                                                                          y                                              n
             35°N
                      Mashad
                                                                                                          Mor
                                                                                                                gh¯                                                             Da
                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯   ry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H         i             ¯    ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NURESTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NURISTAN
                                                                                                                  ab
                                   P
                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                  B A D G H ¯S
                                                                                            I                                                                                                          ¸ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mahmud-e Raqı
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¯ ¯ ¯ Nurestan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KAPISA Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     35°N
                                        a                                                                                                                               Bamıan
                                                                                                                                                                        Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                         ¯ ¯¯¯                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                              PARWAN                                        Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯ ¯
                                             r o             Qal‘eh-ye Now                                                                                                                        ¯                Charıkar LAGHMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KUNAR      To
                                                 p a                          e                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                      R a n g                                                                               ¯    ¯
                                                      m i s u s                                                                                                                                                                 Mehtarlam           Mardan
                                                                                                                      Chaghcharan
                                                                                                                               ¯                          B A M YA N                                         KABUL KABUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯                        ¯
                                                    Herat
                                                       ¯
                                                                           ır¯d
                                                                        Har¯
                                                                             u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PA K IS TAN
                                                                                                                                                                              WA R D A K                         Meydan Shahr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ¯                     Khyber Pass
                                     ¯                                                                                                                                                                           LOGAR                NANGARHAR
                               H E R AT                                                           GHOR                                                                                                                                                                To Peshawar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pol-e ‘Alam

                                                                                                                                                   nd                                                                      PAKTIA
                                                                                                                                            lma                                                        Ghaznı
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¯              Gardız
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 us
                                                                                                                                         He
                                                                                                                                                                  G H A Z N¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ind
             ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                                       I                                                    KOWST                 To
                                                                                                                        U ¯
                                                                                                                        OR U Z G A N                                                                                                    Kowst         Kohat 0          50              100     150 Kilometers
             REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                         Sharan
                                                                  rah
                                                                   ¯
                                                                Fa
             OF IRAN                                                      ¯
                                                                     FA R A H                                         Tarın Kowt
                                                                                                                         ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0                  50             100 Miles
                                       ut
                                    ¯r
                                   Ha
                                       ¯
                                                        Farah
                                                           ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                         P A K T¯K A
                                                                                                                                                                                                I ¯
                                                                                                                                                 ¯ U
                                                                                                                                               Z A B OL
                                                                                                                                                   Qalat
                                                                                                                                                      ¯
                                                                            h
                                                                          Kh¯ s
                                                                            a




                                                                                                                                            n¯ k
                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                        Tar

                        Hamun-e
                         ¯ ¯
                          Saberı
                          ˛¯ ¯
                                                                                    Lashkar Gah
                                                                                             ¯           Arghandab
                                                                                                                  Kandahar
                                                                                                                        ¯

                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AFG H ANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                               Zhob

                                                        Dasht-I Margo                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                               Zaranj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                             N ¯M R O Z
                                               I    ¯
                                                    U                     HI LMAND
                                                                          H EL M A N D                   ¯
                                                                                                   KANDAHAR                                                                                                                                                                             RIVERS
                                                Helm                                                                                                    To
                                                     and                                                                                                Quetta                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
             30°N
                                            Gowd-e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RAILROADS
                                             Zereh                                                                                                                                                                                           30°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 33358R
                                                                                                                                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
APRIL 2010




                                                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

              60°E                                         PA KI S TA N                                65°E
                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        70°E
