Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9514
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1323-SE)
APRIL 19, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department V
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      CFAF
US$1.00           =      CFAF 300 approximately
FRF 1.00          =      CFAF 50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 cm - centimeter             =      0.39 inches
1 m - meter                   =      3.28 feet
1 m3 - cubic meter           =       6.289 bbl = 35.3CF
1 1 - liter                   =      0.26 gallons
1 I.1 - barrel                =      159 1 = 5.6CF
1 .  - kilogram               =      2.2 pounds
1 b±m - kilometer             =      0.62 miles
1 km2 - square kilometer     =       0.39 square miles
1 t - ton                     =      2,205 pounds
1 kW - kilowatt               =      1,000 watts
1 . - megawatt               =      1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh - kilowatt hour         =      1,000 watt hours
1 GWh - gigawatt hour         =      1 million kilowatt hours
ABBREVIATIONS
AFE         Authorization For Expenditures
API         American Petroleum Institute
BBL         Barrel
BCEAO       Banque centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BCF         Billion Cubic Feet
BOPD        Barrels of Oil Per Day
CF          Cubic Feet
DMG         Directorate of Mines and Geology
ECU         European Currency Unit
EIB         European Investment Bank
GOS         Government of Senegal
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
MCFD        Thousand Cubic Feet Per Day
MDIA        Ministere du Developpement Industriel et de l'Artisanat
PCIAC       Petro-Canada International Assistance Corporation
PETROSEN    Soci4te des petroles du Senegal
SAR         Societe africaine de raffinage
SENELEC     Societe nationale de l'4lectricitd
TOE         Tons of Oil Equivalent
w.i.        working interest



TM woRtLo SAtK.                 FOXi OFFICIAL USE ONL
was"ton. OC. 30433
US
off at of Dtg.ctoweC"OT1L
op.?et1  Iyeuafm.
April 19, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Repvrt on Republic of Senegal
Petroleum Exoloration Prolect (Credit L323-SE)
Attached. for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Republic of Senegal - Petroleum Exploration Project (Credit
1323-SE)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
; S
Attachment
Thai 4aumment hua  resmud, disUibuton and nay beurd by mweam onlyin Um De  zn.e
of that O&a d*    la t Isongts MAY not Otrwue be ducimed wntoul Wodd Dantek &UMsa.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1323-SE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
Preface   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . i
Evaluation Summary ................ ii
PART I   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
2. Background .. . . . .   .   . . . . .                   1
3. Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . .    2
4. Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . .    3
5. Project Implementation
Credit Effectiveness
and Project Start-up  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Procurement  . . . . .   . . .   . . . . .  * * . .   6
Project Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Disbursements  . . . ..   . . . . . . . . . . .  .    8
Review of Main Project Component . . . . . . . . .
6. Project Results   . . . .   . . .   . . . . . . . . .   10
Objectives     . . . . . .  ... . . . . . . . .   10
Physical Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Financial Results  . . . . .      *. .  . ........    11
Impact of Project     . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
7. Project Sustainability   .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
8. Borrower's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
9. Performance of Co.nsultants and Contractors . . . . .   12
10. Bank Performance .n .................    .    14
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Planning and Execution . . . . . . . . . . .   15
2. Various Observations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
3. Overall Conclusions  ... .............. .    16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Credit Relevant to the Project  . . . . . . . .          18
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
3.  Disbursement Information  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
4.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
S.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . .    21
6. Project Cost and Financing
Project Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Project Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Allocation of Credit Proceeds . . . . . . . . . .    22
7.  Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
8.  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(Credit 1323-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum
Exploration Project in Senegal, for which Credit 1323-SE in the amount of
SDR 8.9 million was approved on February 8, 1983. The credit was closed on
December 31, 1988, four years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and
the last disbursement was on July 13, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division
of the Sahel Department in the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based on data available in the
Project files and discussions with members of the project team.



- it -
SENEGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(Credit 1323-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
The main objectives of the project were, first, to strengthen
the Government's capability to handle petroleum matters through (i)
establishing a modern legal/fiscal framework; (ii) training professionals;
and (iii) setting up an entity within the Government responsible for
executing agreements under the policy monitoring of the ministry in charge
(MDIA); and, second, to attract international oil companies to explore in
Senegal with the hope that the country ma, become self-sufficient in
petroleum supplies (para. 3.01).
Implementation Experience
Credit effectiveness and project start-up took much more time
than initially forecasted. From appraisal to effectiveness, the project
took some 18 months, and implementation over six years, the closing date
having to be postponed three times and delayed by three years. Initial
delays were due essentially to offshore border problems; delays during
project implementation were due to changes in project scope and the
difficulty of finding a joint venture partner willing and capable of
managing the gas development component (paras. 5.01 - 5.02).
Results
The project achieved the main objective of strengthening the
Government's capability to understand and deal effectively with petroleum
industry related matters, including exploration, production and marketing
issues. However, the attempt to attract oil companies to explore for
hydrocarbons either onshore or offshore has not yet produced the intended
results which would include exploration agreements with major oil companies
to develop the petroleum potential of Senegal (paras. 6.01 - 6.04).
Findings and Lessons Learned
The main finding is that oil industry's perception of Senegal's
petroleum potential remains rather pessimistic and that a new promotion
effort should be considered. Basically, the new effort should corxist of
repackaging the previous work including all data recently acquired.



- iii -
Th. main lessons learned from the project aret
a)   the Bank should question the rationale for the
establishment of a national oil company until such time as
there are meaningful hydrocarbon disc -eries;
b)   in case a national oil company is already in place, the
Bank should be more attuned to oil industry experience
whereby exploration money comes from profits and not from
borrowing (para. 10.03);
c)   the procurement of the drilling services for the well
program should have been done by adhering strictly to the
Bank's guidelines, rather than agreeing on a special case
to accommodate the operator on the assumption that the
drilling cost would be lower by drilling the wells with an
operator-owned rig. This decision resulted in considerable
differences between the parties over costs and
responsibilities and almost caused the drilling project to
be aborted (para. 9.05).



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(Credit 1323-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Name                 : Petroleum Exploration Project
Credit Nu-ber        s Credit 1323-SE
RVP Unit             : Africa Regional Office
Country              : Senegal
Sector               : Eriergy
Subsector            : Petroleum
2.   Background
2.01      At the time the project was prepared and appraised, Senegal's
energy resource base was moderately diversified, yet little developed.
Hydropower of nearly 500 MW was potentially the most important energy
source but has not yet been utilized since sites were located along the
Senegal and Gambia rivers, a considerable distance away from major load
centers. Forests and woodlands extending over 7 million hectares had been
seriously depleted because of fast consumption growth and lack of
reforestation. There were also relatively small natural gas accumulations
near Dakar and some oil in an offshore structure (Dome Flore), which has
been studied by the GOS for possible exploitation. Recently discovered
reserves of peat (37 million i3) are still being considered for power
genuration. While bagasse is used as boiler fuel in the only existing
sugar refinery, little energy use is made of other vegetable wastes and the
renewable solar and wind energy potential remains virtually untapped.
Lacking domestic production of petroleum, coal and hydropower, Senegal had
to rely on petroleum imports to a high degree (53Z of total energy
consumption) of the 1.5 million TOE equivalent in 1980. Petroleum products
are largely processed locally from imported crude in the SAR refinery.
2.02      Senegal's sedimentary basins cover a total surface of 175,000 km2
of which 110,000 km2 have potential for liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons.
Exploration started in 1954 and since then over 140 wells have been drilled
of which only 30 to 40 are deemed significant from an exploration point of
view. This represents an average density of only one well per 2750 k?2,
which is very low. At appraisal time, Chevron and Marathon/Husky were
holding exploration acreage in Senegal offshore, but in 1990 only Marathon
holds prospecting rights.
2.03      Responsibility for petroleum matters, be it exploration.
production, refining or distribution, rests in part with the Energy
Directorate and in part with the Directorate of Mines and Geology (DMG) of
the Ministry of Industrial Development and Craftsmanship (MDIA). However,



-2-
it was decided early on in the preparation of the project that a new
entity, more attuned to commercial requirements, should be che implementing
agency. The main reason was to by-pass administrative and bureaucratic
constraints, particularly regarding procurement and staffing. As a result,
PETROSEN (Socidtd des petroles du Senegal) was created and became the main
beneficiary of the sub-loan 1/ made by the Government of Senegal (GOS),
the Borrower. The other beneficiary of the subloan was DMG. EIB and PCIAC
also contributed to tne financing of some project items.
2.04      As an initial step, the Government identified Dome Flore in the
Casamance offshore as an area in which early production could be expected.
Requests were then made for IDA's assistance in financing the promotion of
the area and EIB financing for possible development of the potential
petroleum resources. At the same time, it was obvious that in order to
attract oil companies to explore in Senegal, it would be necessary to
gather together all the existing surface and subsurface geology
information, and prepare an integrated report which would discuss Senegal'w;
geology within the framework of modern concepts. Furthermore, it was
necessary to update the petroleum legislation to put it more in line with
prevailing exploration terms and conditions, and make it more favorable to
the GOS.
3.   Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.01      Proiect Objectives.  The project was designed to assist the GOS
in strengthening the upstream petroleum sub-sector and to attract foreign
oil companies to negotiate petroleum exploration/production contracts. The
project was to:
(a) help GOS promote petroleum exploration by international
companies in Senegal's prospective sedimentary basins;
(b) assist the Government in carrying out the exploration and,
if warranted, the production of natural gas in the Diam
Niadio area near Dakar;
Petrosen's commentss appraise the possibility of petroleum
production in the Dome Flore region (to the south of the
Casamance offshore); evaluate and produce natural gas and
petroleum in the Diam Niadio area, near Dakar, in light of
the problems arising from the border dispute with the
Republic of Guinea-Bissau.
tc) strengthen DMG as the Government's policy-making body for
the petroleum sector and PETROSEN as the instrument of this
policy.
3.02      Proiect Description.  The Petroleum Exploration Project (Cr.
1323-SE) consisted of:
1/   The agreement between PETROSEN and .n  GOS called for the
reimbursement of the loan in full or in part, depending on the
financial results and overall situation of PETROSEN.



-3-
(a) Basin studies: including, in the first phase, a
comprehensive study of Senegal's sedimentary basin and, in
the second phase, Senegal's share of two integrated, basin-
wide, regional studies with its neighboring countries,
namely, Mauritania, Guinea-Bissau, and the Gambia (th's
became known as the MSGB Study); the results of both
interventions to be used to promote, with foreign
companies, exploration in the on-land and offshore basins;
then in supervising exploration work including seismic
surveys and exploratory drilling. During both study
phases, the Borrower's and PETROSEN's staff participating
in carrying out said studies were to receive on-the-job
training by consultants;
(b) Strengthening of PETROSEN: (i) Technical Assistance
including the services of one senior petroleum
engineer/geologist to help set up PETROSEN's exploration
department (30 man-months); 90 man-months resident
specialists to complement and train as necessary, PETROSEN
staff; consultants to help promotion and negotiate
contracts (13 man-months) and to evaluate investment
proposals (15 man-months); and staff training abroad; (ii)
Purchase of equipment and office materials; (iii) external
audits; (iv) exploration consultants to assist in the
promotion of a continuing exploration program in Senegal,
including the definition of such program, the monitoring
thereof, the conduct of negotiations with foreign petroleum
companies therefor and evaluation of the feasibility of
PETROSEN's investment proposals.
(c) Strengthening of DMG: 48 man-months of petroleum
specialists to complement and train DHG staff; 48 man-
months of legal consultants to revise petroleum
legislation; acquisition of office and laboratory
equipment; and training abroad.
(d) Diam Niadio Development: A first phase consisting of
gravimetric and detailed magnetic surveys, 400 line km
semi-detailed land seismic survey and a second phase
consisting of a semi-detailed onshore seismic survey 500
line km aimed primarily at the shallow horizons, if
justified by the first phase.
(e) Exploration of the Casamance Offshore Basin: approximately
2,300 km of marine seismic lines, and processing and
interpretation thereof, and exploratory drilling, if
justified.
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.01      The project was identified in April 1979 and prepared under
financing from two PPF advances: the first in the amount of US$200,000
approved on January 31, 1980; and a second in the amount of US$800,000



-4-
approved on March 6. 1981. The Initial Project Brief was distributed on
June 30, 1980 for a project restricted to the Dome Flore appraisal
drilling. However, because of boundary complications with Guinea-Bis-au,
the offshore appraisal drilling component was dropped from the Bank-
financed project in 1981 which then became the Petroleum Exploration
Project with a Final Project Brief dated June 3, 1981. Petrosen has
requested, in its comments of the PCR, that the abz.ve date of June 30, 1980
be change to April 13, 1.98'.  The project was appraised in November 1981
(no Staff Appraisal Report was issued). Negotiations were held in Dakar in
December 1982.
4.02      Early on, it was proposed that a PPF for US$200,000 be granted
to finance the evaluation work of ar. oil discovery at Dome Flore and also
tile preparation for the possible development of this discovery. The Dome
Flore structure which is located in the Casamance offshore had been
prospected by private interests. The discovery dating from 1974 was deemed
non-commercial ar.d, therefore, the acreage was relinquished. Under PPF
financing, marine seismic data over the Dome Flore area were acquired and
the results helped in locating a new drilling site. The Government and
PETROSEN received a grant of US$13.7 million equivalent from PCIAC in 1982
to cover the cost of technical assistance to DMG, of a deep seismic survey
over the Diam Niadio area near Dakar and of drilling a confirmation well on
the Dome Flore structure. The offshore drilling was stopped abruptly in
1984 by an unfriendly interver.tion of Guinea Bissau which was claiming the
Dome Flore area as its own territory. The claim went to the International
Court of Justice and Senegal came out vindicated in an early 1990
arbitration decision. However, the decision is still being challenged by
the Government of Guinea-Bissau.
Petrosen has requested that the following details be included:
sic:  In order to clarify t}. various stages by which operations in the
Dome Flore region and its surroundings were executed, we wish to provide
the following information:
'In October 1980, a consultatLt produced an initial ;ttudy of Dome
Flore, based on the compilation and interpretation oi existing
data. As a result of this, a high-resolution seismic survey was
performed in May 1981. The resulting Oata and their
interpretation were contained in a report produced in November
1981, accompanied by revised economic data. A promotion was
then presented in Dakar (June 1982) and Houston (July 1982), and
negotiations were held with PPT (Productive Production
Technology, SA) from September 1982 to January 1983, but were
terminated at the end of 1983 because the firm had been unable
to obtain the necessary financing. In October 1982, PCIAC
provided the Government (through PETROSEN) with aid in an amount
of US$13.7 million equivalent to partially cover the cost of
technical assistance for DMG and seismic acquisition (2,780 km)
on the Casamance offshore outside the Dome Flore region (from
March 24 to April 26, 1983). Interpretation of these data led
to the drilling of SENCAN 011 by PCIAC at the end of 1983.
Although the drilling took place in the Dome Flore area, the



- 5 -
objective was not to  onfirm known deposits, but to sesi deeper
deposits on the sides of domes F and G."
4.03      Under NORAD finar.cing, the Government hired in 1981 a firm of
Norwegian Petroleum Consultants to revise the petroleum/fiscal legislation
and to prepare a model exploration/production contract agreement in line
with current oil industry practice. In November 1981, an exploration
consultancy firm was hired under PPF financing which was supplemented with
an EIB grant of approximatelly US$584,000 equivalent to carry out a
preliminary compilation of data from Senegal's sedimentary basins and also
to prepare technical assistance and training programs for DMG and PETROSEN.
This project preparation served as a basis for the appraisal of the
project, in particular the component for promoting petroleum exploration in
the country. In parallel to this effort, PCIAC offered to undertake an
offshore seismic survey over the entire Casamance in order to promote the
area to the petroleum industry. The preparation for the promotion of the
Casamance offshore took several years and the promotional meeting took
place in April 1986.
Petrosen wishes the following additional aspects to be included:
Some of the information in the final part of this paragraph does not
accurately reflect the various stages of PCIAC's operations in the
Casamance offshore. In fact, PCIAC undertook acquisition twice in this
areas  in Harch/April 1983 (2,780 km), and March/April 1987 (1,700 km).
The first series resulted in the drilling of SENCAN 011 by PCIAC, and the
same data were also used in the geological evaluation of the area that
formed part of the study of Senegal's sedimentary basins. The results of
the latter project were presented at the Dakar seminar on April 23, 1986.
One year after this seminar (and therefore after the project to study
Senegal's sedimentary basins), PCIAC -- by agreement with PETROSEN --
carried out a further seismic survey, the results of which were presented
to the industry in April 1990. The April 1990 promotion was based not only
on the results of the PCIAC operations, but also on a seismic survey of the
Casamance offshore financed by the industry on behalf of PETROSEN. These
operations took place after completion of the World Bank project. For the
sake of clarity, we suggest that the last two sentences (beginning 'In
parallel to this effort ...*) be deleted.
4.04      Basically, the Exploration Project had the following components:
(a)  Dome Flore Appraisal Drilling - evaluation of a heavy oil
and a light oil discovery and recommendations for
delineation drilling subsequent to a seismic survey;
(b) basin studies - evaluation of Senegal's sedimentary basins
including the regional geologic framework extending through
five countries (Mauritania, Senegal, Gambia, Guinea Bissau
and Guinea);
(c)  preparation of promotion reports collowea oy the
organization of promotional seminars to attract risk
investment;



-6-
(d)  review of Diam Niadio gas resources (Dakar promontory) and
follow-up with joint-venture(s) that would include the
newly formed PETROSEN;
(e) seismic surveys onshore and offshore;
(f) training of professionals from PETROSEN and DMG;
(g) purchase of field and office equipment for PETROSEN and
DMG.
4.05      In the first half of December 1982, the Credit was negotiated in
Dakar and on February 8, 1983 was approved for SDR 8.9 million (US$9.5
million), PETROSEN being the implementing agency through a Project
Agreement and a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (September 5, 1985).
5.   Project Implementation
5.01      Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up.  During the early
stages of the project, it was necessary to start preparatory work before
the credit became effective. To this end, an adva..e was provided from the
Project Preparation Facility. Board approval was originally planned for
June 1981, but actual Board approval took place on February 8, 1983 and
credit effectiveness was declared on May 6, 1983. The delay was due to
lengthy discussions within the Bank and also with the GOS concerning the
offshore border dispute with Guinea-Bissau. Finally, the Bank project,
rhich originated with the idea of developing the reported Dome Flore light
oil discovery, was modified and the Dome Flore drilling was to be financed
by a PCIAC grant.
5.02      Implement'tion Schedule.  The project was originally scheduled
to be completed by June 30, 1985. It was necessary to extend the Closing
Date for the credit three times, to December 31, 1988. Almost 9 and 1/2
years passed from the first PPF approval (Jan. 31, 1980) corresponding
approximately to the hiring of the first consultants and the final
completion date of June 30, 1989.   Petrosen's comments were:  "The delay
in project implementation was due first to the reorientation of the project
resulting from the border dispute. The Dome Flore appraisal drilling
project, suspended because of the dispute, and then the Diam Niadio
project...'. Indeed, the main source of delay once the credit became
effective, was the great difficulty in finding an oil company willing to
come to Senegal and develop meager confirmed gas reserves for local
consumption and to explore for additional reserves. Also, the preparation
of the legal documents for the Sebikhotane joint venture consisting of
PETROSEN, Tullow Oil Plc of Dublin and SAIM of Dakar (a private Senegalese
investor) took considerable time. An establishing convention, an operating
agreement and the updating of the credit and project agreements had to be
discussed and prepared.
5.03      Procurement.  With IDA's assistance at the begirning, documents
were properly prepared in that the Bank's guidelines were followed for all
Bank-financed procurement. However, an exception was made for the
procurement of the drilling rig used in the Sebikhotane permit. Initially,



-7-
the joint venture, in which Tullow was the operator (para. 5.08-F), decided
to go to ICB for a drilling contractor to drill two development wells and
two exploration wells. Six bids were evaluated, but the lowest one was for
a rig which did not have the capacity to drill the deeper wells that a new
geologic interpretation called for. The next best bid turned out to become
more expensive (because of high stand-by fees) in view of the need to
increase the drilling program once a contemplated new financial instrument
would be in place. The joint venture agreed, and the Bank, in the interest
of avoiding further delays in implementation and in view of the economic
advantage, supported the decision to have the operator do the drilling work
themselves with a recently purchased rig. As it turned out, this approach
was a mistake. particularly because of the lack of drilling experience of
the contractor-operator.
Petrosen wishes to provide the following clarifications:
*Initially the joint venture, in which Tullow was the operator, decided to
.... Six bids were evaluated. Tullow first selected the lowest one, from
Microdrill. After several months of discussion, Tullow decided that
Microdrill's technology could not be used to achieve the objectives in
question. Without reconsidering the other bids, Tullow then proposed to do
the drilling work itself with a rig purchased through a number of
intermediaries. In spite of PETROSEN's objections to this procedure, the
Bank finally supported this decision in the interest of avoiding further
delays in implementation (which proved to be illusory, in light of the time
drilling took) and in view of the economic advantage that it was presumed
to offer, but in the event did not provide."
5.04      Proiect Cost.  The total cost estimate of the project was
US$25.2 million, of which Petro-Canada International (PCIAC) financed
US$13.7 million, the Government of Senegal/PETROSEN US$1.5 million and the
Norwegian Agency for International Development (NORAD) US$0.5 million. The
estimated project cost to be financed by IDA at appraisal was SDR 8.9
million or at the time of signing USS 9.5 million. The entire SDR 8.9
million were disbursed and this amount corresponded to a total of US$
10,250,380.91 or about US$ 750,000 more than the initial corresponding
amount. This difference is due to exchange rate variations during the 6
112 years of disbursement period.
5.05      The Credit could have been entirely disbursed by December 31,
1988, had not EIB come up, in mid-1988, with a risk loan in the amount of
ECU 600,000 to cover the cost overrun of the Diam Niadio/Kabor drilling
program. The cost overrun, which was foreseen in early 1988, was above the
IDA credit balance and PETROSEN's own contributions that came from its own
funds as well as from its share of gas sales' proceeds. Because of EIB
disbursement rules, in particular, obligations to reimburse already paid
expenditures only and finance of goods only (to the exclusion of services),
IDA agreed with GOS request to implement a newly designed scheme to
accommodate the critical situation (ongoing drilling program). Basically.
some expenses already paid for under the IDA credit would be reimbursed to
the credit so that the EIB loan could finance these expenses. In order to
avoid even the most remote possibility of financing the very same expenses
twice, a mechanism was designed whereby the proceeds of the EIB loan would
be deposited in a new PETROSEN's account to satisfy EIB requirements and,



-8-
then, would be immediately transferred to the IDA account. That last
transaction would occur simultaneously with the release by IDA of the
expense justification. This scheme, whose implementation was time
consuming, was carried out very smoothly.
5.06      Disbursements.  The credit was slow in being disbursed because
of the need to readjust some components of the project. Disbursements for
incurred expenditures were made in a very efficient manner thanks to the
system agreed by GOS and the Bank, whereby PETROSEN was responsible not
only for preparing the payment requests but also for signing and
dispatching them to the Association with only copies made to the
appropriate ministries. The setting-up by PETROSEN of a special account in
foreign currency with a local bank to be periodically replenished worked
very well for making payments (average between two to four days for
overseas payments) but its replenishment was sometimes made very difficult
because of the very slow pace of transactions at the central bank level
'BCAO) and in other banks (up to 2 1/2 months).
5.07      Difficulties arose with the drilling operations when cash-calls
had to be made in a timely manner. The notion of cash-calls is not always
clearly understood. These are payments to the operator of a joint venture
which are required in advance according to agreed-upon budget and
authorizations for expenditure (AFEs) that the operator plans to make a
given month. The reconciliation between cash-call deposits and actual
payments of expenditures usually comes two months later. Frequent
discussions occurred concerning cash-call payments and their justification.
The Association had the opportunity to show its conciliation capability
more than once.
5.08      Review of Main Project Components.  Because of the complexity of
the project and its changing objectives over time, the main components of
the petroleum exploration project are reiterated.
A - Dome Flore Appraisal Drilling. The component financed under
the project consisted of a feasibility study to develop mainly a light oil
show reported by previous operators. The results of the study were
encouraging and PCIAC decided to finance additional seismic acquisition and
the drilling of an appraisal well. As the well was being drilled, Guinea-
Bissau sent an ultimatum to stop the operation and remove the rig from the
contested offshore area. Rather prompt acceptance to remove the rig was
achieved through threatening air force jets flying low over the rig.
Petrosen's comments: PCIAC's 1983 -eismic program was not concerned with
the Dome Flore known deposits, since it was implemented away from the
domes. The purpose of well SENCAN oil 011 was to study the sides of the
salt structures.
B - Legallfiscal and Contractual Framework. Specialists in
petroleum legislation were brought in early on to revamp and modernize the
existing petroleum code dating from October 10, 1960. Efficient revision
of the law prnved to be difficult for specialists not familiar with French
legislation. Therefore. GOS turned to two well-known firms to prepare a
new petroleum law with a model contract, as well as the fiscal provisions.
At the same time, the firms prepared the necessary legal documents for the



-9-
joint venture PETROSEN-Tullow Oil-SAIM (para. 5.02). As a result, Senegal
now has a modern and dynamic petroleum legislation with the Petroleum Code
of April 14, 1986. It should help to stimulate petroleum exploration and
to encourage foreign high-risk investments.
C - Basin Studies and Acreage Promotion. The geologic
information gathered as a result of previous exploration by oil companies,
both surface and subsurface, was compiled with considerable efforts into a
single report for all the sedimentary areas of Senegal. The report was
sold to interested companies (about thirty copies were bought) and a
promotion seminar was held in Dakar on April 23. 1986, Eight companies
were represented at the meeting where the petroleum geology was discussed
as well as the new petroleum legislation, including the proposed model
exploration/production contract. However, the response of the oil industry
was unenthusiastic, since no oil company has filed for any acreage as of
May 1990. One of the areas recommended in the promotional report was the
Dakar promontory (Sebikhotane) with its light oil and gas possibilities in
Diam Niadio and Kabor. These prospects had been discovered by an
international oil company, but discarded because of their relative small
size. They, therefore, became the focus of activity for the joint venture
of Tullow Oil/PETROSEN/SAIM (para. 5.08-F).
D - Regional Basin Study or MSGB Report. The reason for the
regional study was that the Senegal coastal basin extends beyond its
northern and southern political borders, and consequently, there is a need
to deal with the basin as a single geologic element, probably complex but
nevertheless capable of considerable undetected petroleum potential. The
report, which is an amalgam of five different studies, one each for each of
the countries involved, outlines four exploration themes. These themes are
not necessarily all represented in one given country. The strategies
highlighted in the report are: (i) a salt dome trend; (ii) a listric fault
trend; (iii) a Paleozoic trend and (iv) a shallow gas with oil
possibilities focus. So far, the report has not sold well (only five
copies), probably because when the countries finally agreed on issuing the
report, the momentum was lost, and also because no regional promotion
meeting could be organized since some countries had run out of funds.
Petrosen would like the above paragraph to be revised as
follows: 'The report brings together regional reports on five countries:
Mauritania, Senegal, The Gambia, Guinea-Bissau and Guinea, and is a true
synthesis report covering the whole basin. The basic data available in
each country were completed and extrapolated to the neighboring countries.
In particular, the study made it possible to develop the following
objectives:
-    Paleozoic and synrift prospects;
-    prospects relating to the carbonate platform and its margins;
-    the possibility of wedges toward the east of the basin;
-    geochemical:  the possibility of generation, maturing and
migration;
-    the possible applications of stratigraphic seismic surveys.



- 10 -
It is nevertheless true that conditions for promoting these operations were
not good".
E - Training. A number of Senegalese professionals were trained
as a result of the project. On-the job training was effected with the
accounting, exploration and drilling consultants. At the same time, short
courses, seminars and the provision of technical publications were arranged
so that technical personnel were kept abreast of all the latest thinking
and developments in their field .
F - Diam Niadio/Kabor Development and Exploration Drilling.
This component is the result of an important change in project scope
because of the need for PETROSEN to have access to additional funds and at
the same time, the need for Senegal to find ways to decrease its petroleum
import bill by substituting natural gas for diesel. The objective of this
component was to evaluate the Diam Niadio and Kabor gas prospects near
Dakar (Sebikhotane permit) by a joint venture which eventually consisted of
PETROSEN, (with a 20 to 50Z working interest), Tullow Oil, an Irish private
oil company (70-40Z w.i.) and SAIM a private Senegalese company (102 w.i.).
The revamped component called for shallow seismic exploration and the
drilling of a minimum of four wells, two development and two exploration
wells. The results of the drilling were disappointing in that only the
first exploration well discovered gas (DN-12) which was promptly linked to
a rehabilitated old line and sold to SENELEC for use in one of its
combustion turbine plants as a substitute for diesel. Although no
additional gas was discovered outside of the complex Diam Niadio structure,
and despite the fact that the meager Kabor gas reserves ran out rather
soon, the operation generated enough profits for the partners to cover
overhead and part of development expenditures. Until June 30, 1989, the
joint venture produced 501.512 MMSCF of dry gas and some 37,617 BBL of
light oil which was trucked for sale to the SAR refinery near Dakar. The
total gross income out of hydrocarbon sales from the start of production
until the end of the project (June 30, 1989) was for gas US$4,301,357 of
which US$1,363,215 went to PETROSEN or 31.7 percent of total sales
proceeds, and for oil US$680,054 of which 50 percent or US$340,026 went to
PETROSEN. The total hydrocarbon income to PETROSEN was thus US$1,703,242.
Petrosen's remarks: "The following will serve to complete the
data relating to production from the Diam Niadio/Kabor fields: The
Association's accumulated costs relating to this permit totaled about US$17
million as of the end of 1989. Cumulative revenue was about US$5.6 million
(of which US$1.7 million, or about 301, went to PETROSEN), consisting of
US$4.8 million for gas and US$800,000 for petroleum. The Association's
revenue was US$2.6 million in 1989 (including US$640,000 for PETROSEN), and
is expected to be US$l million in 1990'.
6.   Proiect Results
6.01      Objectives.  The project cofinanced with PCIAC and NORAD
included: (i) basin studies (IDA); (ii) technical assistance to PETROSEN
and DMG including consulting services, training, purchase of
office/laboratory equipment, audit of PETROSEN's accounts for 1982-85
(IDA/PCIAC/NORAD); (iii) exploration/development program in the Diam



- 11 -
Niadio/Kabor/Dakar peninsula area (IDA); and (iv) exploration program in
the Casamance offshore area (PCIAC). However, Petrosen reports that *the
exploration program in the Casamance offshore area (PCIAC) is not part of
the World Bank project".
6.02      Physical Results.  All the necessary work to complete the above
objectives has been undertaken, but not all the objectives have been
attained satisfactorily. In the case of the Casamance offshore program, on
the one hand, the drilling of the Dome Flore structure had to be halted
(para. 5.08-A) for political reasons and, to date, there are no plans to
resume the drilling program. On the other hand, the exploration program
consisting of geophysical and geological surveys and the data compilation
have been delayed so that only in April 1986 was a promotional meeting
organized. The Diam Niadio/Kabor exploration and development program was
disappointing, since only one of the two exploration wells discovered some
minor natural gas reserves, while both appraisal wells turned out to b'
non-commercial despite reported shows of gas and oil.  The other objec-aves
were all reached within the time frame assigned to them at appraisal.
Petrosen would like to add: 'The exploration program consisting of
geophysical surveys and modern geological interpretation was performed by
PETROSEN after project completion. In April 1990, PETROSEN organized
promotion seminars in Houston and London".
6.03      Financial Results.  At appraisal the designed project carried no
estimate of natural gas and oil production, and therefore sales, since the
proposed project had no rate-of-return computation and, thus, no appraisal
report. But with the change in project scope and the introduction of
potential production of oil and gas from the Diam Niadio/Kabor structures
near Dakar, gas and oil sales were made (para. 5.08-F). Oil production
started in October 1986 at an average rate of 29 BOPD and natural gas in
November 1987 at an average of 216 MCFD. During the first months of
intermittant gas production (it was a function of purchases which in turn
depended on an unreliable diesel engine), the average sale price was
approximately US$7.3/MCF. For the lighkt oil, the sales price was around
US$17-18/BBL. Because of lack of experience in patroleum accounting
practice, it was not possible to calculate the net income from the
hydrocarbon sales throughout the production period until project completion
(June 30, 1989). In spite of several Bank requests, an audit of the joint-
venture account was never received. Petrosen has declared that *It should
be stated that the production capacity of the natural gas well is 1.765
MMCFD, but that gas is produced in response to the needs of SENELEC'.
6.04      Impact of Proiect.  The project helped the Government to better
understand the country's petroleum potential and to become more realistic
about it, in its planning strategy. With a modern petroleum law and model
contract, the GOS is better equipped to deal with oil companies and to
negotiate favorable exploration contracts. The project also helped to give
confidence to PETROSEN professionals in performing complex operations and
in performing credibly on the international scene. For reasons which are
still unresolved, no oil company has so far applied for acreage except that
which the Tullow venture in the Sebikhotane Permit and the private
Senegalese company SOSEREP now holds in the Louga Permit along the coast
near the Mauritania border. Walter International, a small but aggressive



- 12 -
oil company of Houston, drilled one offshore well last year under a
Harathon Oil farmout. This well turned out to be dry and has discouraged
any further activity until a complete reexamination of the petroleum
geology is made.
7.   Proiect Sustainability
7.01      The sustainabililty of this project is in serious doubt, but not
because of poor design or implementation. Certainly Senegal has benefitted
by now processing technical departments staffed with better trained and
knowledgeable personnel, by having revised, updated and more apposite
legislation and contractual arrangements in the context of oil exploration,
and in the possession of data appropriate for future exploration. But
these benefits will not be sustainable unless the achievements of this
project are tranplated soon into positive steps by expatriate oil interests
to further investigation of Senegal's oil and gas potential. To date,
there are no signs of such interest.
8.   Borrower's Performance
8.01      Table 7, Part II, contains a summary of compliance with
covenants by the Borrower, the Government of Senegal, and the executing
agency, PETROSEN, the national oil company. The Government, with strong
support from PETROSEN, has been very serious about the project and had the
new petroleum law as well as the "Convention d'Etablissement' passed
promptly. All covenants except the one dealing with the final audit of the
project accounts have been complied with.
8.02      PETROSEN has improved considerably in the course of its short
existence both at technical and administrative levels. Procurement
guidelines were taken very seriously and were followed scrupulously once
accounting procedures were installed, the administration of the special
account was flawless, and the overall management approach was conservative.
PETROSEN's grasp of the oil industry know-how was slow but solid, and now
they probably understand that for a fledgling national company it is
financially more fruitful to be a carried partner than a full fledged
partner with not only technical but also financial responsibilities.
Although PETROSEN performed well and showed responsibility in its joint
venture association for the time since the operating agreement was signed
until the end of the IDA project, it had some difficulties in grasping the
meaning of cash-calls as per established oil industry practice. This often
led to bitter arguments with the operating partner. The partner, however,
was not above criticism in its preparation of AFEs and reconciliation
statements. Finally, PETROSEN and the GOS should be particularly commended
for their resisting the temptation to build PETROSEN into yet another
bloated public enterprise, and for keeping its staffing and operating
budget at the strict minimum.
9.   Performance of Consultants/Contractors
9.01      The original legal consultants did a credible job and completed
a first revision of the law. Subsequently, the GOS requested the services
of a consulting firm having great familiarity with the French legal system.



- 13 -
This firm prepared the new petroleum law, the model contract agreement,
PETROSEN's articles of association, the Establishment Convention and the
joint operating Agreement. The firm acted to the satisfaction of the GOS,
PETROSEN and the Association and served as negotiating advisers in contract
discussions.
9.02      The exploration consultants prepared the Senegal basin
evaluation and contributed to the MSGBG regional report. They did a
credible job but, for reasons not yet understood, no oil company has so far
applied for any exploration acreage.
9.03      The accounting consultants prepared a general report on classic
accounting principles related to joint-ventures which had no immediate
practical application in regard to the PETROSEN joint-venture. A
consultant was then hired on a direct contract basis to help PETROSEN sort
out the cash-call situation; his comments were useful for PETROSEN and the
Association. The consultant recognized that the difficulties arose from
the fact that both partners were not experienced firms used to handling
joint-venture bookkeeping and accounting communications on a regular basis.
9.04      An exploration adviser was hired by PETROSEN to assist in the
monitoring of Tullow exploration activities including the selection of
drilling sites, drilling contract negotiations and supervision of
geological results. This assignment was very helpful to PETROSEN who
decided to extend the initial contract beyond project completion date.
This extension was to be financed out of PETROSEN own funds.
9.05      The drilling contractor turned out to be a subsidiary of the
joint-venture operator and, did not give entirely satisfactory service,
essentially because the drilling rig was not properly certified prior to
shipment and because the rig personnel lacked the necessary experience to
operate the rig as efficiently as expected. Operations did improve once
the Association indicated its strong disapproval of the way the operations
were conducted. A competent drilling specialist was hired by PETROSEN at
IDA insistence to supervise the rig activities. His early criticisms led
to some angry reactions on the part of the drilling contractor who
eventually recognized the value of the specialist's advice to PETROSEN and
who thereupon took the remedial actions required to upgrade his services.
9.06      Seismic contractors were hired at different times either by
PETROSEN or by the joint-venture operator to do seismic acquisition,
processing of new lines and reprocessing of old vintage seismic. Results
were deemed sufficiently good for general interpretation. However, the
survey over the Dakar peninsula using air gun rather than traditional
seismic energy sources like thumper or vibroseis resulted in insufficient
definition and could not show mid-depth events.
9.07      After lengthy search for an experienced joint-venture partner,
PETROSEN selected a small and new Irish oil company, which was willing to
try its luck in Senegal and spend its own money. The exploration phase was
conducted rather efficiently and at low cost, whereas the drilling phase
turned out to be not so well conducted. Tullow Oil is a dynamic company
not shy in taking risks. It is staffed with young, qualified, very



- 14 -
dedicated and enthusiastic personnel, but its lack of experience became
obvious during the drilling operations. Petrosen's comments: *Tullow is a
dynamic company not shy in taking risks. However, its approach to
exploration indicates a lack of overall understanding of geological
problems, and an ad hoc strategy in which exploration is exclusively
directed toward achieving immediate results".
10. Bank Performance
10.01     Since identification and preparation of the project, the Bank
has always maintained an active role in advising the Government and the co-
lenders. The Bank's positive contribution was particularly relevant in the
following aspects of the projectt (i) improvement of knowledge of the
country's petroleum potential; (ii) establishment of a data base; (iii)
preparation of an attractive petroleum legislation including a model
exploration contract; (iv) assistance in directing PETROSEN in its search
for a joint-venture partner aiid in reviewing drilling operations; and (v)
support and understanding for implementing the complex transactions whereby
EIB loan funds were used to increase resources available under the project.
10.02     The Association showed interest in the development of the
project and creativity in certain circumstances (para. 5.05).
10.03     The quality of the Association's advice has been generally good.
However, one can question the approval of PETROSEN's participation in the
joint-venture as a fully responsible financial partner instead of a carried
partner until commercial discovery as is usually the case for an LDC
national company. These terms were negotiated on advice from PETROSEN's
consultants. Another aspect of the joint-venture which created unending
discussions on allotments of costs or profits and considerable dissention
if not sheer suspicion, was the variable split of the working interest - 20
or 50 percent for PETROSEN (and reciprocally 70 or 40 for Tullow) depending
on whether the expenses or profits were related to exploration or
production property.
10.04     The relations of Bank staff with the GOS and PETROSEN's
representatives were excellent at all times during project implementation,
although Bank restructuring created a temporary cooling-off in these
relations because entirely new staff had to learn the project.



- 15 -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1323-SE}
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Planning and Execution
1.01      In general terms, PETROSEN is satisfied with the planning and
execution of the petroleum exploration and development project financed by
Credit 1323-SE.
1.02      The implementation of the project led to the establishment and
active intervention of PETROSEN as an inoitution applying Senegal's
petroleum development policy and operating as an effective interlocutor
with the oil companies. Unfortunately the attempt to continue the efforts
already made, in the form of a second petroleum project, was not
intelligently handled. The new management of PETROSEN has prepared a 5-
year operating plan defining the new work program.
1.03      All the studies planned in the project were carried out to the
great satisfaction of all the parties concerned, except the Sedimentary
Basin Study, in which delays have to some extent affected execution of work
on the Sebikhotane permit.
1.04      The 'Training' and 'Technical Assistance' components promoted
effective technology transfer that benefited Senegalese technicians, given
the constantly changing methods and practices that characterize the oil
industry. However, a recent assessment makes it clear that there is still
much to be done in this area, given the specific features of the sector;
World Bank intervention will again be requested in the future.
1.05      As regards World Bank supervision, a feedback process was
constantly in operation from the beginning to the end of the project,
enabling the Bank to be associated with all the decisions taken.
1.Cj      The delay in executing the work on the Sebikhotane permit is the
result of questionable choices made by the Operator, constant budget
overruns and the lack of the Operator's experience in directing oil
operations.
1.07      Nevertheless, PETROSEN has achieved some not negligible results
and thus faces the future with great confidence.
1.08      Thanks to World Bank assistance with the financing of earlier
studies, with the support of PCIAC and other private sector partners, a new
policy is currently being implemented regarding the promotion of the
Senegalese Sedimentary Basin, involving the gradual disengagement of
PETROSEN in favor of the oil companies.



- 16 -
1.09      This process is reflected in the organization of Promotion
Seminars and the provision of new data to the oil companies, along with
applicatior, of the procedures established under the New Petroleum Code.
1.10      In light of the trend in oil prices on the international market
PETROSEN is currently in constant touch with the oil companies, who are
showJng great interest and will, we believe, be requesting exploration
permits in the near future.
1.11      We would note that the initial amount of the revolving fund
established by the World Bank, namely US$800,000, is clearly inadequate and
inappropriate for the execution of oil operations in light of the minimum
period of 45 days required for its replenishment. This has made it
difficult for PETROSEN to meet its obligations, notably as regards the
payment of its share of requests for funds; PETROSEN was obliged to use
every possible financial stratagem to retain the confidence of the Operator
and to honor its commitments.
1.12      In macroeconomic terms, the establishment and execution of the
Sebikhotane permit has generated foreign exchange from the sale of gas and
crude oil and has preserved employment levels, which may increase as a
result of the exploration of shallow horizons that currently are very
complex given the extremely complicated geology of the permit.
2.   Various Observations
2.01      Regarding the Bank's performance during project development and
execution, PETkOSEN regrets the administrative delays which nonetheless
improved as the project progressed, particularly after the restructuring of
the Bank during 1987 (sic).
2.02      As regards PETROSEN, we would note that the excessive delays in
decision-making inevitably led to additional costs.
2.03      Relations between Bank staff and PETROSEN have been very
cordial. The Bank representatives have spared no effort to make the
project a success.
2.04      PETROSEN took all the necessary measures to facilitate the work
of Bank staff by promptly providing all the technical and financial
information requested by the Bank.
3.   Overall Conclusions
3.01      Even though much debate centered around the PETROSEN/Tullow
joint venture during its implementation of the project, the experience has
been extremely valuable in enabling PETROSEN to adapt to the realities of
the industry, and this experience could not have been acquired if the
agency had been merely a carried partner.



3.02      The limitations of the latter form of participation are well
known, and prevent any real or instructive type of activity from being
developed.
3.03      Naturally, such a strategy calls for a certain amount of
investment, which in this case (and as has been emphasized) was cautious
and limited, partly as a result of World Bank monitoring. The overall
result was that PETROSEN has become an enterprise capable of assessing its
own needs and articulating them in action plans.
3.04      The petroleum industry did not make an adequate response to
previous promotions for the following reasons:
(1) The 1986 promotion came at a time when the depression in the
petroleum industry had obviously reached its lowest point,
particularly as regards exploration.
(2) Essentially, this promotion was based on earlier data.
Geological and geophysical methods and concepts had been
considerably revised and improved in recent years. It was
essential to compile new data based on modern techniques, with
interpretations based on modern approaches. The World Bank
projezt did not include financing for gathering such data, for
reasons that were both financial and related to short-term
economic factors. Never-theless, the efforts made by the World
Bank have provided an indispensable basis for future
development.
(3) It is evident that the existing data from explorations in the
Senegal basin (and of the whole MSGB area) are inadequate and
must be completed. The chances of discoveries seem reasonable.
Consequently, PETROSEN's efforts must be continued, at least
over the next 10 years. They must be concentrated on promotion
efforts within the industry.
This will require:
-    additional provision with regard to training and organization:
-    ongoing evaluation of results and petroleum potential;
-    permanent contact with the petroleum industry.
3.05      These past and future efforts are justified by the importance
for Senegal of the domestic production of energy resources.
3.06      Overall, the World Bank project has made a major contribution
toward these efforts, in which PETROSEN plays a key role.



- 18 _
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.       RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
A. Credit Relevant to the Proiect
Loan/Credit                                     Year of
No.         Title / Type of Business       Approval  Status
S-26-SE         Power Engineering & T.A.           81     Closed
Develop Energy Plan and
Reorganize the Power Sector
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Planned, revised and actual dates of project timetable
Date      Date      Date
Item                           Planned   Revised   Actual
IdentifIcation (EPS)                                       04/79
Project Brief                        6/30/80   031/04/8   06/03/81
Appraisal Mission                     12/80      11/81    11/02/81
Negotiations                          5/81       5182     12/07/82
Board Approval                        6/81       6/82     02/08/83
Signature                                                 03/31/83
Effectiveness                         4/83                05/05/83
Closing                              12/31/85  12/31/87  12/31/88
Completion                           06/30/85             06/30/89



- 19 -
8. DISBRSEMENT INFORMATION
(in U.S. S MILLIONS)
Appraisal Amt.    Actual Amt.    S of    S Of
FISCAL YEAR                           Cumulative        Cumulative    Actual   Total
September 1962
December 1982
March 1983                                      2.00
June 1908                                       2.00            0.09     22.2X    0.9X
1984
September 1908                                  5.80            1.08      6.6X    11.2X
December 198J                                   6.80            1.26      4.6X    1B8%.
March 1984                                      7.00            1.47      4.6X    15.6X
June 1964                                       7.00            2.01      3.5X    21.2X
1966
September 1964                                  9.80            2.88      8.6X    24.51
DOcesber 1904                                   6.80            2.68      2.9X    29.8X
March 19865                                     9.60            8.86      2.6X    86.41
June 1986                                       9.60            8.78      2.61    89.8x
1986
September 1986                                                  4.14              48.6S
December 1966                                                   4.06              61.1X
March 1986                                                      6.11              58.6X
June 1986                                                       C.81              65.9X
1067
September 1986                                                                     s £.5  50.0X
December 1986                                                   G.82              68.5X
March 1907                                                      6.86              67.2X
June 1907                                                       6.i0              78.5X
1966
September 1907                                                  7.?               79.21
December 1987                                                   7.9 68.8x
March 1988                                                      6.81              91.4X
June 1908                                                       9.82             101.81
1969
Sept.mber 1986                                                  9.89             104.1X
December 1966                                                  10.02             106.6X
March 1989                                                     10.04             106.7X
June 1909                                                      10.25 j           107.0X
Date of Final Disbursement:   July 13, 1989
1/ The total amount of US$10,250,380.91 disbursed or about US$750,000 over
the original amount, is due to exchange rate variations during the 6-
112 years of disbursement period.



- 20 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators             Appraisal Estimates              Actual Performance
Indicator 1:
Basin Studies     a) a complete study of Senegal's  a)  This report, which was of
sedimentary basins;                 good quality was
finalized in January 1986
b) a study of Senegal's portion        and a promotion seminar
of two basins shared with           held on April 23, 1986.
three neighboring countries.
b)  The MSGB report was
completed but promotional
efforts delayed.
Indicator 2:
Technical         a) to PETROSEN.  One senior         IDA funded technical
Assistance           petroleum engineerlgeologist   assistance to PETROSEN,
to help set up PETROSEN's       including training for DMG
exploration department (30mm); staff, progressed smoothly
90 mm resident specialists to  and with good effect.
complement and train as         Absence of interest
necessary, PETROSEN staff;      inhibited the provision of
consultants to help promotion  technical assistance
and negotiate contracts (13    designed to evaluate
mmn) and to evaluate investment investment proposals and to
proposals (15 mm); and staff   negotiate contracts.
traininlg abroad.
b) to DMG. 48 mm of petroleum
specialists to complement and
train DMG staff; 48 mm of
legal consultants to revise
petroleum legislation; and
training abroad.
Indicator 3:
Diam Niado        400 line km semi-detailed land    The seismic surveys were
Development       seismic survey and a 500 line km  completed as scheduled and,
detailed seismic survey.           aftez numerous delays the
Drilling of at least two           four wells were completed
exploratory and two development   with disappointing results.
wells.



- 21 -
5.    Project Results
A. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL IMPACT
Economic rate of return                                   n/a    2/
Financial rate of return                                  n/a    2/
B. PROJECT STUDIES
Purpose                  Status                         Impact
To promote, with            Completed            The first study of the
foreign companies,                               sedimentary areas of Senegal was
exploration in both                              sold, after a promotional semitLar
inland and off-shore                             represented by eight oil
sedimentary basins.                              companies companies, but in the
event, the response was
unenthusiastic, no oil company
filed for any acreage as of May
1990. The MSGB report did not
have the benefit of a promotional
seminar and sold only five
copies. As in the case of the
first study, no further interest
was evident.
To report on classic        Completed            The joint venture accounting
accounting principles                            study was of little direct
related to joint                                 relevance, but the cash call
ventures and to                                  assistance was useful.
assist in the
resolution of cash
call contentions.
2/ Because of the exploratory nature of the project and the uncertainty of
possible benefits. no economic or financial rates of return were
calculated at appraisal.



- 22 -
6. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A.  Prolect Cost
Appraisal Estimate      I         Actual
Foreign  Local    Total   l  Foreign  Local    Total
---(USt  O)              I            (      )------------------------(US$ 000)---------
Project prep. (PPr rftin)      1,000         0      1,000 l
Basin studios                  2,780       260      8,040 I  4,774      260    6,034
Assistanco to PETROSEN         1,900       710      2,610 1      0      416       416
Asoistance to DM0              1,270       270      1,640 I      0      162       162
Dlam Niadio                    3,800       460      4,260 I 11,723      460   12,178
Casamence Offshoro Expl.Prog.   7 460      730      8 180 I   16.888    730   17 618
Base CostN  18200        2,420    20,620   83,380   2T.017   WW
Physical contingencies         1,720       240      1,960 I    189      240      429
Price contingencies            2 460       206      2 868    2 878      206    8 081
Total contingencies    4,180      44i    -tW Ut,0W6 I          446
Total Project Cost:      22,880    2,865    26,246 I 86,446   2,462   88,907
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__----------
B. Project Financing Plan
Foreign  Local      Total   I Foroign      Local   Total
_______  -------   _______  I ______     -------   -----
IDA                            9,600        0      9,600 l 10,260             10,250
Government/PETROSEN                0    1,500       1,600 I  1,478   1,500    2,973
PCIAC                         12,420    1,810    18,730 l 16,262   1,310   16,572
NORAD                            460        65        515 I    116       66      170
EIB                                                            e 630             680
Tullow/Sal T                                                 5,446   2,866    8,811
Total:             22,380    2,065    25,246 1 88,177   5,730   38,907
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__----------
C. Allocation Of Credit Proceeds
Category                              Original         Final Disbursement
1. Training for Part A of
the Project.                           96                     91
2. Consultants' services
and training for Part B
of the Project                      1,922                  1,368
8. Vehicles and offico
equipment for Part B
of the Project                         64                      69
4. Consultants* services
for Part C of the Project           8,068                   8,606
5. Ooods and services for
Part D.2 of the Project             2,519                   8,577
6. Refunding of PPF Advances             993                     812
7. Unallocated                           843                     760 _/
Cat. 6 Fund                                                       22
9,600                  10,250
3/ Private partners in Diam Niadio exploration.
4/ This figures which brings the total disbursed amount to US$10,260.880.91 reprosents the
exchange rate variations during tho six-and-a-half years disbursement period.



- 23 -
7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Deserltion of Covenant                             A rement        Compliance     Remarks
Consultants employed by the Borrower to assist      DCA 8.02        Yes            none
In carrying out training undor Part A.1 of the
Project shall have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
Borrower shall maintain records and proceduros      DCA 8.08        Yes            none
adequate to record and monitor the progress of
the Project.
After completion of the Project, but In any         DCA 8.08       Yes             none
event not later than six months after the
Closing Date, the Borrower shall propare and
furnish to the Association a completion report.
PETROSEN shall mintain appropriate records In       DCA 4.01       Yes             none
accordance with consistently maintained             PA 4.01
accounting practiceo.
PETROSEN shall (I) have Its accounts and finan-    PA 4.02         Yes             none
cial sttemrnts for *ach fiscal year sudited by
Independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion; (11) furnish to the Association: (A)
certified copies of Its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such udit by sald auditors; and (111) furnish
to tho Association such other Information
concerning the accounts and financial statements
of PETROSEN and the audit thereof.
The Borrower shall obtain the Associ*'.ionln        DCA 4.02       Yes             none
approval prior to taking any aetion: (i) to
modify the share capital of PETROSEN, or
selling, transferring or otherwiso disposing of
any part of Its holdings of the stock of
PETROSEN If as a r ult of such action, or sale,
transfer or othor disposal the Borrower would
lose effective control of PETROSEN; and (11) to
substantially Increse its proportionate
holdings of PETROSEN's stock.
Unleos the Association shall otherwise agree,       DCA 4.02       Yes             none
the Borrower shall take all necessary stops in
order that, to the extent that Banque Nationale
de Dhveloppement du S6n6gal and Soc 6th
Financlire S6n6galaiae pour Is D6veloppement do
l'Industrie et du Tourism shall hold stock of
PETROSEN, such stockholders shall continue to
hold at lest one seat each on PETROSEN's Board
of Directors.
PETROSEN shall not, until the Project shall have   PA 4.08         yes             none
been completed, make any investment In excess of
the equivalent of S300,000 and shall not make
Investments In any year exceeding In the ag-
regato 31,000,000, unleos such investment or
nvostments shall be financially and econ-
omically viable.



- 24 -
8.   USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Input (SW)
Stage of
Proiect Cycle                                          Actual
Through Appraisal                                        33.2
Appraisal through Board Appr.                            44.3
Board App.  thr. Effectiveness                            8.9
Supervision                                            145.7
232.1
B. Missions
Month/   No. of  Days In                       Perform.
Year   Persons   Field       SD cializat1on   Roti
Loan 182S-SE
Approaisl                    11/1       3        16
Supervision 1                 2/83       4         5           FA, GST          1
Supervision 2                 6/83       2        6            FA, CST          1
Supervision S                 7/83       2        4            FA, CST          -
Supervision 4                11/83       2        4            CST, FA          2
Supervision 6                 3/84       3        4            CST, FA          1
Supervision 6                 8/84       1        3              E¢R            -
Supervision 7                10/84       1        14             EOR            -
Supervision 8                 2/86       3        2            FA, CST          -
Supervision 9                 5/86       3        6            FA, CST          1
Supervision 10                6/86       6        7         FA, CST, EOR        1
Supervision 11               10/86       2        8            FA, CST          1
Supervision 12               12/88       3        6          FA,GST, ECR        1
Supervision 18               11/87       2        4          ECON, CONS         1
Supervision 14                1/88       2        9            FA, CST          1
Supervision 15                8/88       2        4           ECON, CST         1
*/ FA a Financial Analyst; CST a Geologist; EOR a Engineer; ECON = Economist.
IlProblem free, 2=ioderate problems



