Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3425a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$9.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
January 18, 1983
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
Ltheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                CFAF
UJS$1.00                                     CFAF 340 1/
CFAF 1,000                                   US$3.5
CFAF 1,000,000                               US$2,940
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm  - centimeter                           0.39 inches
1m   - meter                                 3.28 feet
1 m   - cubic meter            =             264 US gallons
11   - liter                                 0.26 US gallons
1 bbl - barrel                               42 US gallons
1 kg  - kilogram                             2.2 pounds
1 km2 - kilometer                            0.62 miles
1 km  - square kilometer       =             0.39 square miles
1t   - ton                                   2,205 pounds
1 kW  - kilowatt                             1,000 watts
1 MW  - megawatt                             1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh - kilowatthour           =             1,000 watthours
1 GWh - gigawatthour           =             1 million kilowatthours
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
API       - American Petroleum Institute
ARL       - Atlantic Resources Limited
BNDS      - Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
BPD       - Barrels per Day
DE        - Directorate of Energy
DMG       - Directorate of Mines and Geology
EIB       - European Investment Bank
LPG       - Liquified Petroleum Gas
MIDC      - Ministry of Industrial Development and Craftsmanship
NORAD     - Norwegian Agency for International Development
NPC       - Norwegian Petroleum Consultants
ONCAD     - Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement
PCIAC     - Petro-Canada International Assistance Corporation
PETROSEN - Societe des Petroles du Senegal
SAR       - Societe Africaine de Raffinage
SENELEC   - Societe Senegalaise de Distribution d'Fnergie Electrique
SNEA      - Societe Nationale Elf-Aquitaine
SOFISEDIT - Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement
Industriel et Touristique
SONAR     - Societe Nationale Approvisionnement du Monde Rural
TOE       - Tons of Oil Equivalent
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                    The Republic of Senegal
Amount:                      SDR 8.9 million (US$9.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard IDA terms
On-Lending Terms:            The Government would make available US$9.4 million
equivalent out of the proceeds of the Credit to
PETROSEN as an advance.
Project Description:         The project would consist of:
(a) basin studies, including, in a first phase, a study
of Senegal's sedimentary basin and, in a second
phase, Senegal's share of two integrated basin-wide
regional studies with Guinea-Bissau and The Gambia,
on the one hand, and Mauritania, on the other;
(b) assistance to PETROSEN, including: (i) services of
one full-time senior explorationist and services of
other expatriate petroleum specialists to be hired
as the need arises; (ii) consulting services to
assist in acreage promotion, negotiation with
foreign companies, monitoring of exploration
programs, and evaluating the feasibility of
investment proposals in the petroleum sector;
(iii) training; (iv) vehicles and office equipment;
and (v) external audits.
(c)  assistance to DMG, including:  (i) services of
petroleum expatriate specialists to be hired as the
need arises: (ii) consulting services to assist in
revising the petroleum legislation; (iii) training;
and (iv) office and laboratory equipment.
(d)  a geophysical program in the Diam Niadio area,
including gravimetry, magnetometry and a land
seismic survey.
(e) an exploration program in the Casamance offshore
area, including a marine seismic survey and, if
justified, exploratory drilling.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Estimated Costs:
Foreign     Local      Total
-------- (US$ ooo) -------
Project Preparation (refinancing PPF)   1,000             -      1,000
Basin studies I/                          2,780         260      3,040
Assistance to PETROSEN                    1,900        710       2,610
Assistance to DMG                         1,270         270      1,540
Diam Niadio Geophysical Program           3,800         450      4,250
Casamance Offshore Exploration Program  7,450          730       8,180
Base Cost (1982 prices)               18,200      2,420      20,620
Physical contingencies                    1,720         240      1,960
Price contingencies                       2,460         205      2,665
Total contingencies                    4,180        445       4,625
TOTAL PROJECT COST 2/                 22,380      2,865      25,245
1/ Includes the cost of consulting services for the promotion of future
acreage.
2/ Exemption of taxes and duties is provided by Petroleum Code.
Financing Plan
IDA                                       9,500           -      9,500
Government/PETROSEN                           -       1,500      1,500
PCIAC                                    12,420       1,310     13,730
NORAD                                       460          55        515
TOTAL                               22,380      2,865      25,245
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The major benefits of the project would be: (i) to help
promote exploration in Senegal by-providing the
information and institutional and legal fram,ework
necessary to attract foreign oil companies on favorable
terms, and (ii) to assess the potential of the Diam
Niadio and Casamance offshore areas with a view to
attracting private oil company exploration. The risk
associated with the promotion of exploration is
possible failure to attract sufficient industry
interest. The risk associated with the two exploration
programs is that the size of the deposits (if any)
would not warrant commercial development. Given
present indications, both risks are acceptable.



(iii)
Estimated Credit Disbursements:
IDA FY           -- FY83 --             FY84 ------       ------- FY85 ------
2  Sem.      1Is  Sem.    2  Sem.      It Sem.   2  Sem.
Annual               2.0            3.8         1.2           1.3         1.2
Cumulative           2.0            5.8         7.0           8.3         9.5
Rate of Return:             Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  None
Map:                        IBRD No. 16310






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR
A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opmaent Credit to the Republic of Senegal for SDR 8.9 millions (US$9.5 million
equivalent) to help finance a Petroleum Exploration Project. The Credit would
be on standard IDA terms.  Under parallel agreements already signed, the
Petro-Canada International Assistance Corporation (PCIAC) and NORAD (Norway)
have made grants for the project of US$13.7 million equivalent and US$0.5
million equivalent, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I'
2.       A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980,
followed by a President's Report for a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, which contained an expanded section
on the economic situation. Since approval of the Structural Adjustment
Lcan/Credit, a series of supervision missions have visited the country to
monitor execution of the program. The following paragraphs reflect the
conclusions of those missions. Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.       Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstay of the tradi-
tional economy is millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. The modern sector of the
economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of about one million in-
habitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent port facilities,
an important industrial sector, and a small but fast-growing tourism indus-
try.  With a population of 5.8 million in mid-1981, Senegal's per capita GNP
for 1981 was estimated at US$500.
4.       During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stagna-
tion as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per annum,
hardly more than the rate of population growth. With Independence, Senegal
lost its privileged position as the center of French West Africa, and subse-
quently had to adapt to its reduced economic, administrative, and political
circumstances. Moreover, in the latter part of the decade, income from
groundnuts (the principal export) fell, due to unfavorable weather and de-
clining export prices.
T7ICThe text of this Section is substantially unchanged from that included in
the President's Report for the Rural Health Project distributed to the
Executive Directors November 29, 1982.



2
5.       In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was again hit by
sharp fluctuations, and even with higher rates of both private and public in-
vestment, average annual growth did not rise above the level of the previous
decade. After recovery from the earlier droughts, real GDP increased at about
5 percent a year between 1973 and 1977, but between 1977 and 1981 it declined
by 2 percent a year, reflecting the effect of three severe droughts during
this period. 1982 is expected to show a recovery from the previous depression
with 10 percent GDP growt,h. Reports on the present agricultural season are
excellent, which could substantially improve Senegal's chances to overcome its
present economic difficulties.
6.       The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by the
price movements of Senegal's major exports and imports. In 1974, the terms
of trade improved by over 21 percent because of exceptionally high prices for
phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however, in 1975, export
prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed in 1976 by a drop in export
prices for phosphates. Increases in oil and rice prices brought a further
deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in income between
1974 and 1982 of roughly 6 percent of GDP. This deterioration in terms of
trade, together with the unsatisfactory performance of the economy as a whole,
led the Government to develop an economic and financial stabilization program
which it launched in 1980. This program was informally but extensively dis-
cussed with the Bank and the Fund, and was the basis for an agreement on the
purchase of US$243 million equivalent under the IMF Extended Facility approved
by the IMF Board in August 1980, and a US$60 million Structural Adjustment
Loan/Credit (SAL) approved by the Board on December 18, 1980. The global ob-
jectives of the Government's program were to stabilize the economy during the
first two years of the five-year Plan period, and to achieve a rate of
economic growth of 4 percent a year in the following three years.
Execution of the Structural Adjustment Program
7.       The structural adjustment program had a slow start as a result of the
change in Government in early 1981, and also because of a record low 1980/81
groundnut crop and steep increases in the price of imported rice. The new
Government reaffirmed the general objectives of the program, but during its
first year in office chose to focus on the economic and financial crisis
caused by the drought. Some of the measures and policies adopted by the new
Government contradicted the objectives of economic stabilization and
structural reform undertaken by the previous Government, and the agreed
calendar for execution of the SAL program was not respected (para 9 to 16).
In early 1981, the IMF suspended Senegal's access to the Extended Fund
Facility, to replace it later in the year with a Stand-by, Arrangement to help
the Government overcome its severe short-term financial difficulties. The
Bank has so far withheld release of the SAL second tranche of about US$16
million. Although considerable progress has been made by Government since
1981, to date only the first tranche of the SAL, US$40 million, has been dis-
bursed, pending the implementation of a renegotiated action program in the
agricultural sector.



3
Balance of Payments
8.       The new balance of payments policies introduced under the rehabili-
tation program were based on strict control of overall demand through tax and
conisumer price increases, combined with increases in the prices paid for the
major export crops and the introduction of special incentives for manufactured
exports (para 9). However, the targeted reduction in the resource gap could
not be achieved, mainly because of the 1980/81 drought, and also because of
organizational problems in the agricultural sector. The fall in groundnut
product exports from a past five-year average of US$220 million to US$94
million in 1980 and US$34 million in 1981, together with exceptionally high
import bills for petroleum, rice, and oil seeds, increased the resource gap in
1981 to US$523 million, or about 21 percent of GDP. In 1980 and 1981, Govern-
ment received exceptional aid from bilateral and multilateral donors, aver-
aging US$170 million a year. This was, however, insufficient to avoid a
further fall in net foreign assets of US$78 million, to a level of negative
US$463 million at the end of 1981. This was financed by the IMF for an amount
of US$148 million. For 1982, the resource gap is estimated at 16 percent of
GDP. The good rainfall during the 1981/82 growing season permitted a five-
fold increase in the value of groundnut exports, despite exceptionally low
world market prices for vegetable oils.  Moreover, the good local cereals crop
in this year, combined with measures to contain urban demand (para 11), are
expected to limit overall import growth to about 11 percent in current
prices. A second year of good crops may shrink the resource gap to 12 percent
of GDP in 1983. However, with projected imports for 1983 still at a level of
40C of GDP (as compared to 33 percent in the early 1970's), further economic
adcjustment has to be achieved in the coming years, mainly through strict
containment of urban consumption levels, further import substitution of
imported rice by domestically grown cereals, and strong promotion of exports.
Producer and Export Incentives
9.       The structural adjustment program laid the basis for further balance
of payments improvements through an export premium system on certain
manufactured goods. The export premium system has already significantly
increased export and employment levels in the sectors to which it was
a-pplied. An extension to 18 other agricultural and industrial branches, as
well as a considerable refinement of the system, will be implemented during
the current fiscal year.  In February 1982, after a 31 percent increase in the
official consumer price for imported rice, the Government also completed the
introduction of basic import duties, although more frequent price adjustments
are required to reflect changes in import costs, mainly related to the
realigzment of Franc zone currencies. Senegal's competitive position has been
improved by constraining average wage increases in 1982 to only 10 percent.
This is a remarkable performance considering urban cost of living increases of
about 20 percent following the series of value-added tax and consumer price
increases passed by Government in 1981/82.
Public Finances
10.      The first budget (1980/81) under the new financial and economic
policies respected the 15 percent public savings target set under the struc-



4
tural adjustment program. However, the economic depression drastically
reduced tax receipts, particularly on corporate profits and luxury imports.
On the expenditures side, under pressure of growing unemployment among
graduates from the school system, the Government was lax on restraining civil
service growth; after an increase in the wage bill of 36 percent in FY80, the
wage bill continued to grow at a rate of 11 percent a year. Moreover, the
price stabilization fund started to generate vast losses. The severe
deviations from the budget estimates put tremendous strain on the Treasury,
and it soon became clear that Government's inability to pay its bills
threatened the stability of the entire economic system. Whereas Government
had always given priority to payment of its external obligations, in mid-1981,
it asked the Paris Club for a rescheduling of publicly-held foreign debt, and
in October 1981, a rescheduling of US$81 million amortization was agreed.
During the same month, Government also called a donors' converence to save the
core of the investment program from a complete lack of local counterpart
funds.
11.      In accordance with the IMF standby arrangement, subsidies on basic
food and petroleum products were removed by increases ranging from 25 to 60
percent in the Government-controlled consumer prices. Other consumer prices
were affected by increases of 1 to 2 percentage points in value-added tax, and
4 to 12 points for taxes on various services. Government purchases were
reduced to an absolute minimum and IMF credit ceilings were respected. In
fact, by end-June 1982, all performance criteria established by the IMF had
been met. But despite satisfactory fiscal performance, it is unlikely that by
1935 Government will be able to finance from its net budgetary savings 25
percent of its public investment program, the target Government set itself in
the original structural adjustment program. The main reason for this
shortcoming is that in 1982/83 debt service will reach 33 percent of
Government receipts instead of the 15 percent projected in 1979, owing to an
additional 20 percent of previously unregistered debts, debt service on
exceptional aid during the drought years, rescheduled amortization payments,
and debt service on the US$265 million debt of ONCAD (paras. 14-16). Because
of these unfavorable public finance prospects, in November 1982 the Government
asked the Paris Club for another round of debt rescheduling. The Government
also agreed with the IMF on the renewal of the stand-by arrangement, based on
a program of further tax increases, reduction in the growth of civil service
and other measures linked with the SAL program.
Investment Program
12.      The outlook for the national investment program has deteriorated
drastically since the establishment of the structural adjustment program in
1980. While the latter imposed ceilings on the investment program to re-
establish macro-economic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced
program has become the main problem. Private investments are stagnating
because of the depressed national economy. Government investments are
suffering from financing problems because, for the next few years, the budget
will not be able to generate an investable surplus, the country is uncredit-
worthy for commercial loans, and domestic credits are under tight IMF
ceilings. A positive development is the progress being made on the new
parastatal phosphoric acid and fertilizer complex based on locally-mined phos-



5
phate rock, and with production intended largely for export to India and other
African states. Since the Government continues to give priority to projects
in productive sectors, the share of directly productive projects will probably
reaLch 65 percent and, thus, surpass the objective of 55 percent set in the
structural adjustment program. The combined investments of the public and the
parapublic sector will be in the vicinity of the agreed ceiling of 10 percent
of GDP set for this category.
Parastatal Sector
13,,     The Government has made the establishment of "program contracts" with
public enterprises an active policy instrument aimed at reducing budgetary
support to the companies, increasing the autonomy of their managements, and
al'Lowing these enterprises to achieve their objectives. So far, the
Government has signed or is negotiating eight contracts with public
enterprises, and five more companies are to enter into negotiations this
year. The growing importance of these contracts will oblige the Government to
establish an overall ceiling on financial support which the budget can afford
in favor of public enterprises.
Agricultural Reforms
14.      At the launching of the economic and financial rehabilitation program
in 1979, the problems in the agricultural sector had been vastly
underestimated, both in terms of the size of financial deficits generated, and
the strength of the vested interests supporting existing structures. The
liquidation of the Government-controlled agricultural marketing organization
(ONCAD) set in motion a slow process of sorting out these deficits and
building up a national consensus around the new organizational formulae.
15.      The heart of the envisaged reform is in the cooperative structure and
credit system, where farmer groups at the village level would collectively
maintain their credit rating and undertake certain tasks such as storage of
groundnut seed. A new law for agricultural cooperatives that determines the
legal status of these farmer groups has been presented to the National
Assembly. Regarding credit, the Government has absorbed the farmers' old seed
debts, considered irrecoverable after the drought years, and announced crea-
tion of a new agricultural credit organization in which a French agricultural
credit bank has been asked to participate. Tests with the new system are on-
going in several areas including in a few districts in the Groundnut Basin.
In the interim, the absence of agricultural credit for the majority of
groundnut farmers would be dealt with by a system of cash sales for fertilizer
and a levy on the groundnut purchase price to finance seeds.
16.      Little progress was, however, achieved in the reform of field opera-
tions. SONAR, a state enterprise created in 1980 to phase out the Govern-
ment's direct involvement in the supply of agricultural inputs, has already
shown some weaknesses of the former ONCAD. It inherited a good part of
ONCAD's staff, more than required to execute its limited functions. It
promised to sell fertilizer at an 80 percent subsidy, but since it could not
make the usual down payment to the fertilizer factory, only a minimal quantity
could be delivered for the 1982-83 season. Subsidies on centrally distributed
seed accounted for one-sixth of the US$67 million losses that accumulated last
year in the State's price stabilization fund. Because of the high subsidies,



6
the private sector could not enter the market for agricultural inputs, while
farmers already experimenting with more efficient systems of stocking seed at
the village level were discouraged. The Government is now considering
modifications in the SONAR system for the 1983/84 crop; the Bank is waiting
for the beginning of its implementation to make a final ruling on the second
tranche of the SAL.
Long-term Prospects
17.      The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for development of areas less
afflicted by drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown. Agricultural research will be oriented more to
farming systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lowering the
costs of agricultural techniques propagated, and better adapting them to far-
mers' needs. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the arid nor-
thern part of the country along the Senegal River. The construction of one of
the two planned dams on the Senegal River has started, but the high level of
state subsidies required on irrigated rice will force the Government to pace
new irrigation development prudently.
18.      The phosphoric acid project is now well advanced, and the export
premium and realignment if the Franc Zone currencies will, hopefully, attract
more light export industries and tourism once the world econmy has improved.
Construction of a ship-repair yard has been completed. However, these export
diversification efforts are unlikely to offset the severely lessened prospects
for groundnuts, still Senegal's main export commodity. Groundnut oil exports
suffer from irregular supplies and from improvements in competing vegetable
oils; exports of groundnut cake suffers from the risk of aflatoxin contami-
nation, which diminishes their value as cattle fodder. As a consequence, in
the next few years, the share of total exports in GDP is expected to remain
below the levels attained in the early 1970's.
19.      The Government's economic policies and the exceptional foreign aid
granted to Senegal have helped the country pass through the most difficult
years of its economic history, but these efforts have not been enough to bring
the economy back on a path of balanced growth. The overextended public sec-
tor, as well as the vast arrears and debt service charges (more than 30 per-
cent of Government revenues), will impose heavy burdens on the State Treasury,
and may create a need for further debt rescheduling. The Treasury will not be
able to absorb substantial additional recurrent cost charges from public
investment projects, and for a few years, will need exceptionally high shares
of foreign financing for projects in order to maintain minimum investment
levels. The unfavorable balance of payments situation calls for a reassess-
ment of Senegal's longer term prospects and the establishment of a new program
of action to achieve the required structural adjustments. The Bank will focus
its country dialogue on these problems and, in the interim, reduce consider-
ably the IBRD share in the Bank Group blend Senegal receives.



7
PART IT  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
20.      As of December 31, 1982, the Bank Group has had 53 operations in
Senegal for a total of US$453.2 million including 28 IDA credits, 14 Bank
loans, 4 blends of Bank and IDA funds, 5 IFO operations, 2 blends of Bank and
ITC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. Most project lending has
been for agriculture, transportation and education.  Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations in Senegal.  Physical execution
of projects is progressing reasonably well, although some operations are af-
fected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing
difficult public finance situation as described in Part I of this report.
Institutional weaknesses in several sectors and a lack of qualified local
staff for key positions constitute serious obstacles to efficient project
implementation.
21.      The Bank's Group strategy for Senegal is to offer financial and
technical assistance in areas where the Government is ready to take necessary
corrective action to: (i) implement investment policies and incentives to
develop and diversify Senegal's production and export base; (ii) increase the
efficiency and savings capacity of the public sector; and (iii) maintain
existing infrastructure. Top priority is given to improving policies in the
agricultural sector where projects can be expected to have a beneficial impact
on economic growth, export earnings, income distribution and rural incomes.
Progress in agriculture, however, is hampered by slow implementation of policy
ref'orms under the SAL and unsatisfactory performance of several key government
and parapublic agencies.  The Bank is also planning to continue financial and
institutional support through project lending and technical assistance
operations to institutional reforms that would encourage a stronger role for
the private sector, as in the phosphate and petroleum industries.
22.      In agriculture, project lending will continue to promote productivity
improvements for traditional food and cash crops, together with diversifi-
cation into new crops and new regions. This effort has led IDA to finance a
high-priority Agricultural Research Project focussing on agricultural systems
improvements, that should give a new impetus to extension services and lead to
a more integrated approach to rural development in semi-arid areas. The Bank
is now preparing a cotton/food crop project in the rainfed Eastern and
Casamance regions, and is considering support for a Fourth Irrigation Project
that would rehabilitate and expand existing medium-sized irrigation
perimeters. The feasibility of new activities in the GrouAndnut Basin depends
orn further progress with structural reforms in input distribution, qrop
mELrketing and agricultural credit (paras 15-16).
23.      The Bank Group has also supported diversification of the economy by
lending to the growing industrial sector through the Societe Financiere
S6n6galaise pour le Develcppement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT),
a development finance company established with Bank assistance in 1974, and
for whicn a third line of credit was approved in FY81. The Bank is also sup-
porting execution of the phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex by financing the



8
rail infrastructure component, and is now preparing a project designed to ex-
tend the life of the Taiba phosphate mine. Diversification is also pursued
through a project of tourism infrastructure which is almost completed. As
part of this project, a special line of credit is designed to provide long-
term financing as a catalyst for potential private investors. Senegal's
economy is greatly dependent on oil imports. After the 1973 and 1979 oil
crises, the Government embarked on an active policy of promoting the discovery
of new energy resources and application of new technology. The Bank has
supported this new orientation by preparing the project presented in this
report, by providing technical assistance and advice, and by financing several
studies which may lead to promising operations.
24.      Bank Group projects have supported economically desirable moderniza-
tion and expansion of the country's infrastructure. But with the stagnant
economy and heavy infrastructure investments in the past, emphasis is now
given to better utilization and maintenance of existing facilities. Thus the
Bank is now preparing a project designed to support the Government's policy to
preserve the road network through adequate maintenance; similarly, the Bank is
preparing a project at the Port of Dakar to finance facilities required to
accomodate the increasing container traffic.
25.      While the Bank Group's overall lending strategy responds to the
importance in Senegal of financing directly productive projects, it also
recognizes the need for some assistance to the so-called social sectors.
Project design and preparation have taken due account of the ability of
Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved. In education,
efforts have been directed to technical and vocational training to support
activities in the productive sectors. The Bank Group is now finalizing
preparation of a Regional Management School Project scheduled for Board
presentation later in FY83. A possible Fourth Education Project would focus
on reversing the current downward trends in access to primary education. A
ruraJ health project was approved by the Board in December 1982 and a Water
Supply Project in eleven secondary centers has been appraised and will be
submitted to the Board in early FY84.
26.      As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic and
financial problems went beyond the limits of specific subsectors, the Bank
started to shift some of its program toward multi-sectoral technical
assistance and structural adjustment lending. A FY78 technical assistance
operation to the parapublic sector and a FY81 Structural Adjustment Loan-
Credit are examples of this changing strategy. The latter aims at supporting
the Government's efforts to control aggregate demand, redirect its public
investment program and promote industrial exports and other productive acti-
vities through improved price and incentive policies. The local currency
counterpart funds of the SAL are being used for financial rehabilitation of
some parapublic enterprises which have agreed with the Government on
comprehensive "program-contracts" spelling out their respective objectives and
obligations. A proposed Second Parapublic Project would help consolidate the
results already achieved, and possibly also create a medium-term facility to
support rehabilitation of viable public enterprises. The FY81 Technical
Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning will strengthen the
Government's capacity to expedite preparation of selected investment projects,



9
and to identify bottlenecks in project execution and take remedial action.
Additionally, substantial technical assistance is being provided under the
BanLk's economic and sector work program, as well as under engineering loans
and credits and PPF advances for project preparation.
27.      Given the need to focus Senegal's public investment program on high
priority projects and to finance almost all of this program from external
sources, improved donor coordination now assumes increased importance.  The
Bank is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in close coordination with
the IMF, and with strengthened consultation with bilateral and multilateral
donors.  Recognizing the importance of helping Senegal extend its access to
donor assistance, the Bank financed consulting services for preparation of a
donor conference in October 1981, and has been participating actively in
follow-up discussions on policies and investment priorities in specific
sectors.
28.      The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Senegal
over 1982 will stay at an average of approximately 18 percent, of which
roughly two thirds is in IDA financing, largely reflecting the disbursements
on existing Bank Group commitments. The Bank Group's share in outstanding
disbursed debt was 21 percent in 1981, and may approach 25 percent by 19f.5.
The Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase from 4.3
percent in 1980 to about 9.5 percent in 1q85.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
29. In recent years, Senegal has depended almost entirely on increasingly
expensive oil imports to meet its commercial energy requirements. In 1981,
net oil imports totalled US$175 million, about 51% of merchandise export
earnings. This debilitating reliance on oil imports bas severely aggravated
the country's already critical balance of payments situation.
Energy Resources, Supply and Demand
30. Senegal's energy resources are moderately diversified, yet limited. At
present, nearly half of the country's overall energy consumption is derived
from wood (i.e., firewood and charcoal). Forests and woodlands cover about
14 million ha, but are rapidly being depleted as a result of recent droughts,
overexploitation, and lack of reforestation. Most other energy forms remain
largely untapped. The only hydrocarbon resource currently exploited is a
emall gas deposit (40,000 TOE) near Dakar used for electricity generation
(para. 44); however, oil shows have been discovered in the Diam Niadio and
Dome Flore areas (see paras. 43 and 44). The hydropower potential of the
Senegal and Gambia rivers, shared with other riparian countries, is estimated
at some 1,400 MW (about 1.9 million TOE per year) but development is hampered
by the considerable distance to major load centers. Peat reserves (about 3.7
million TOE) have recently been discovered, and their potential use for power
generation, industrial or household fuel, or in agriculture, is being
situdied. Solar, wind and biomass energy potentials appear to be substantial,
but have not been fully evaluated. Lignite occurrences are widely reported,
but information on the quality and size of these reserves is lacking.



10
Consequently, Senegal must rely on petroleum imports more than most other
countries in the region.
31. In the last five years, the country's total energy consumption has grown
about 5'9 per annum. In 1980, total primary energy demand amounted to 1.5
million TOE: petroleum provided the largest share (53<), followed the fuelwood
and charcoal (45%) and bagasse (21). Per capita energy consumption has risen
to 270 kg of oil equivalent, relatively high by African standards, due to the
advanced consumption patterns of Senegal's urban population. In 1981, gross
electric consumption reached 673 GWh, about 115 KWh per capita, with electric
power generating capacity (exclusively thermal-based) approaching 180 MW.
2ectoral Institutions
32. Responsibility for making energy policy lies mainly within two
directorates of the Ministry of Industrial Development and Craftsmanship
(MIDC): the Directorate of Mines and Geology (DMG) oversees fossil fuels, and
the Directorate of Energy (DE) administrates power generation and distribution
as well as overall energy planning. DMG supervises the "Societe des Petroles
du Senegal" (PETROSEN), the newly created national oil company, and monitors
the activities of foreign oil companies and the "Societe Africaine de
Raffinage" (SAR), which operates the Dakar refinery (see para. 36), while DE
supervises SENELEC, the state-owned power utility. Upon respective
recommendations from SAR and SENELEC, energy prices are jointly set by MIDC
and the Ministry of Finance. In addition, three other Government institutions
have energy sector responsibilities: the Ministry of Hydraulics (for
hydropower resources), the State Secretariat for Forestry, and the State
Secretariat for Scientific and Technical Research (for solar, wind and other
renewable energy resources). To facilitate coordination among these various
institutions, a Natural Energy Commission was formed in late 1980, under the
chairmanship of the Prime Minister, with primary responsibility for energy
planning. Under the Power Enginering and Technical Assistance Credit (No. S-
26-SE, 1980), the services of two senior energy advisors are being financed to
help MIDC and DE formulate an overall energy policy and a national energy
plan, and proposals for organizing the energy sector. This institutional
setup remains ineffective due to poor coordination between DMG and DE and the
reluctance of policy makers to take full advantage of available technical
expertise. These issues are currently being addressed by a Bank Energy
Assessment mission which visited Senegal in June 1982.
Sectoral Policies
33. The Government's energy policies aim at promoting indigenous energy
resources, while controlling the growth of energy consumption with appropriate
pricing policies.
34. Investments. Total proposed investment in the energy sector for the
1982-86 period is about US$260 million (1982 prices). The power subsector
accounts for 57% of this figure, the petroleum subsector for 30%, forestry for
111 and renewable energy for 2%. In addition to expansion of existing
transmission and distribution systems, proposed power subsector investments
mainly provide for additional thermal units since anticipated hydropower



11
schemes in Yanantali (Senegal River) and Kekreti (Gambia River) would not
materialize before the end of the decade. Use of peat for power generation is
currently being studied, but commercial use is not expected before the late
'80s. A 25-year master plan for development of the power subsector, financed
by Canada, was completed in 1981; further studies of future power generation
needs and sector organization are being carried out under IDA financing
(Credit S-26-SE). Hydrocarbon investments would include revamping and
expanding the Dakar refinery (from 0.9 to 1.2 million tons) for a cost of
about US$43 million to be financed mostly by French export credit. The oil
exploration program under the proposed project and the activities of foreign
oil companies holding exploration acreage would complete the hydrocarbon
investment program. Present forestry investments include a project supporting
reforestation, forest management and institutional upgrading financed by FAO,
the French Government, and IDA (Credit 1103-SE, 1981). Further assistance in
forestry is being provided under USAID financing. Finally, pilot projects for
non-conventional energy usage are planned with other bilateral aid.
35. Prices. Current energy prices in Senegal are by and large in line with
economic costs, although, for reasons of social and industrial policy, some
cross-subsidization exists between the various consumer classes and fuel
types. Electricity tariffs range from US cents 13.5 per kWh for residential
use to US cents 7.1 per kWh for large industrial consumers. Electricity
tariff structure is based on the long-run marginal costs which prevailed when
the structure was designed in 1977, and their levels are periodically adjusted
to reflect increases in oil prices. A tariff study, carried out under IDA
financing (Credit No. S-26-SE), was completed in late 1982 and made
recommendations on bringing SENELEC's future rates into line with today's
long-run marginal costs. Internal retail prices for petroleum products have
kept pace with increases in international oil prices and generally remain in
line with those prevailing in similar African nations. Mid-1982 prices for
typical products with corresponding international prices (CIF Dakar) are shown.
below::
Unit Prices (US$/gallon)
Product                  Senegal         International
Gasoline (premium)                   3.04              1.03
Gas oil                              1.70              0.98
Kerosene                             1.59              1.04
Fuel oil (industry)                  0.83              0.59
Fuel oil (SENELEC)                   0.65              0.59
Total Goverment fiscal revenues from petroleum product sales, including
excise taxes, the 15"0 import duty on crude oil and contributions to the
Stabilization Fund, amounted to 71 of the Government's current revenues in
1981. This percentage is likely to decrease in 1982, however, since prices
were not raised to compensate for refining cost increases and the effect of
the currency depreciation in the first half of the year.



12
Petroleum Subsector
36. Senegal's crude oil imports totalled 800,000 tons in 1980. Crude oil is
imported from Nigeria, Algeria, and the North Sea and processed in the Dakar
refinery.  The refinery, operated by SAR, is a joint venture of SNEA  France),
several other oil companies, and a Government-owned development bank.-/  It
supplies most of the domestic fuel requirements, and some exports (lo% of its
output), mostly to neighboring Mali, Gambia and Mauritania.  Ten percent of
domestic demand, primarily premium gasoline, jet fuel, and gas oil, are met by
importing refined oil. About two-thirds of domestic consumption of petroleum
product is concentrated in the Dakar-Cap Vert area. Although domestic
consumption increased at an average of 7% p.a. between 1974 and 1979, it fell
by 3% in 1980 and an estimated 4% in 1981 due to recent price hikes and the
slowdown in economic activity.  Transportation accounts for 46t of petroleum
products' demand, power generation for 269o, industry and agriculture combined
for 24%, and the residential and commercial sectors for 4%. About 40% of
total consumption is fuel oil; 21% - jet fuel (mostly bunker sales to
international airlines); 151 - gasoline; 14' - gas oil; and 101 - other
products (diesel, kerosene, and LPG). Distribution is handled by five
subsidiaries of international oil companies. (The Government holds a 25%
interest in one subsidiary.)
37. The net cost of petroleum imports has risen sharply from US$48 million in
1978 to US$175 million in 1981, or 19% of total merchandise imports and 51% of
merchandise exports in the latter year. Following the decline in 1980 and
1981, petroleum consumption is expected to rebgund with an average growth
forecast of 4% p.a. in the 1982-1990 period, -/ assuming appropriate fuel
pricing policies and efforts for substituting domestic energy resources for
imported petroleum products are continued. However, if domestic production is
not significantly increased, the cost of oil imports (net of exports) could
reach US$300 million (current prices) by 1987, imposing an even heavier burden
on the country's balance of payments.
Institutional and Legal Framework for Petroleum Exploration
38.  Until 1980, Government responsibility for petroleum exploration and
production rested entirely with DMG, which is still in charge of defining
Government policies in the sector and supervising their implementation.
However, with a professional staff of only seven engineers and geologists, DMG
is understaffed and poorly equipped to carry out such a mandate. Improvement
of tnis situation is impeded by budgetary restrictions imposed on Government
departments.
1/ Although the Government had, in early 1982, announced plans to take
a majority participation in SAR, these plans now appear to have been
put in abeyance.
2/ Based on expected average GDP growth of 3.8% for the period.



13
39.  In May 1981, the Government created PETROSEN, a mixed enterprise with a
capital of' ,FAF 130 million (about US$500,000) in which it kept a 90t direct
interest. -  PETROSEN's other shareholders are two Government-controlled
development banks (BNDS and SOFISEDIT), each of which has one representative
on PETROSEN's seven-member Board of Directors.  By creating a parapublic
entity, the Government provided itself with the necessary administrative
flexibility (e.g., in procurement and staffing) and opened the possibility of
joint ventures with foreign oil companies.  PETROSEN's short-term role is:
(a) to assist DMG in the handling and interpretation of geological and
geophysical data and in the promotion of exploration by foreign companies
(para. 46); and (b) to initiate exploration and possible development in
Government-held areas--Dome Flore, Diam Niadio, and the Casamance offshore--if
possible, in association with foreign oil companies (paras. 47 and 48). Given
the uncertainty related to the level of future petroleum operations, the
Government has initially given PETROSEN a light structure.
40.  PETROSEN's full-time staff curtently numbers four, including the General
Manager, who is a qualified geologist with a background in petroleum. This
number is expected to increase, as the proposed project is implemented, to
about nine local professional staff by 1984.  In addition, PETROSEN would
receive assistance from outside consultants, as well as DMG and MIDC staff as
required, and would complement its permanent staff by hiring expatriate
petroleum specialists, under financing from the proposed IDA Credit (para.
52). PETROSEN has agreed to reassess its staffing needs periodically in
consultation with IDA, as better information becomes available on Senegal's
oil prospects and the scope of PETROSEN's future operations (Section 3.01(b),
draft Project Agreement). The Government has also agreed to maintain BNDS and
SOFIDEDIT representation on PETROSEN's Board unless IDA otherwise agrees, in
order to ensure an appropriate degree of autonomy and efficiency in PETROSEN's
management (Section 4.02 (b), draft Development Credit Agreement). Lastly, in
order to ensure that PETROSEN devotes all its resources to sound investments
in the petroleum sector, the Government has agreed that, before undertaking
any investment in excess of US$300,000 or investments in any year exceeding in
the aggregate US$1 million, it would provide IDA with evidence that such
investments are technically, economically and financially justified (Section
4.03, draft Project Agreement). The proposed IDA credit also includes funds
for feasibility studies (para. 52).
41. The Petroleum Code of October 10, 1960, governs petroleum exploration and
production in Senegal. It provides for exclusive exploration permits which
are granted for five-year periods and can be renewed twice, each time with
partial relinquishment (50%) of acreage. In the event of a commercial
discovery, production concessions are granted automatically for 50 years.
Fiscal clauses provide, inter alia, for royalties (creditable against taxes)
of up to 12.51 on oil and 51 on gas, as well as a 50% income tax after a
1/ The Government's share of PETROSEN's paid-in capital and PETROSEN's
operating budget until the end of 1982 are financed under an EIB grant
(para. 47).



14
depletion allowance equal to 50% of net profit. The Petroleum Code offers
rather attractive terms to oil companies; however, it is inflexible and ill-
adapted to today's industry practices. In particular, it does not provide
sufficient incentive for the development of small fields nor does it protect
the Government's interests in the case of a large discovery.  The Government
has hired Norwegian Petroleum Consultants (NPC, Norway), under NORAD financing
(para. 54), to assist in revising Senegal's petroleum legislation, preparing
model exploration contracts in line with present industrial practice, and
reviewing PETROSEN's legal status accordingly. NPC's work would help
establish the framework to be proposed to oil companies seeking exploration
contracts in Senegal. The Government has agreed to consult IDA on any
proposed changes in petroleum legislation or in PETROSEN's status resulting
from NPC's study (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Exploration History and Current Status
42.  Senegal's sedimentary basins cover a total surface of 175,000 km2, of
which 110,000 km2 are prospectable for hydrocarbons. Exploration started in
1954 and since then over 140 wells have been drilled. Of these, only 30 to 40
can be considered significant from an exploration point of view, which is a
small amount for such a large area. Until recently, the whole sedimentary
area has been covered by exploration permits, yet exploration activity has
been very slow, consisting mostly of seismic and airmag surveys l1. Currently,
the Government holds only the offshore Casamance permit relinquished by
Chevron in October 1981 and two small areas around Dome Flore and Dakar
(paras. 43 and 44). The first partial relinuishments of areas now under
permit are due in June 1983 (about 11,500 km ) and January 1984 (about
36,500 km2).
43. The Dome Flore, a salt dome located 60 km offshore Casamance, was
explored between 1958 and 1971 by COPETAO, an association between Compagnie
Francaise des Petroles and Texas Gas Sulphur. Drilling resulted in the dis-
covery of a heavy oil deposit in the northeast culmination and in light oil
shows in the southwest culmination of the Dome. Both were determined to be
uneconomic at the time and, thus, abandoned. The permit for the Dome Flore
area (about 250 km2) was relinquished in 1975 and, since then, the area has
been kept by the Government. Reevaluation studies carried out by consultants
under a PPF advance (para. 46) suggested the possible existence of a light oil
field exploitable for commercial purposes; heavy oil remains uneconomical to
exploit under present conditions. A subsequent seismic survey, carried out in
May 1981 under PPF financing, permitted better definition of the faulting and
blocks on each structure, particularly the southwest culmination. On the
basis of these studies, PETROSEN has approached the pe.troleum industry and
requested proposals for an exploration/development joint venture (see para.
47)-
1/ A deep well drilled by SNEA in Casamance (onshore) was completed in
September 1982, without success.



15
44.  In the Diam Niadio/Dakar peninsula area, which extends inland east of
Dakar (see attached map), 47 wells were drilled, most at shallow depths,
between 1953 and 1976. Oil and gas shows were frequent, but only one small
oil discovery, made in 1960 at Diam Niadio, was commercially viable.  Oil
production (34-37 degrees API) at this well reached 60 BPD, but then declined
rapidly, and the well was abandoned in 1962, with a cumulative production of
34,000 bls. A small gas discovery nearby is still producing to feed a small
gas turbine. In spite of past drilling activity, no overall evaluation of the
area has been completed, but available information indicates two distinct
prospects: one in the shallow Maestrichtian sands and the other in the deeper,
medium-to-low Cretaceous. Tn light of changes in economic conditions since
the area was first explored and given its proximity to Dakar, there is a good
likelihood that even a small level of production, particularly at shallow
depths, would be profitable for the Government, although such prospects may be
too marginal to attract foreign oil companies. Annex V describes in more
detail the history of exploration in Senegal and its current status, in
particular for the Dome Flore and Diam Niadio areas.
Government Strategy for Petroleum Exploration
45. Traditionally, the Government played only a passive role in petroleum
exploration, being content to award concessions on a first come, first served
basis, with the exception of Dome Flore, in which it had tried to interest
Venezuela without success.  The Government has now devised, with IDA's
assistance, an overall strategy for petroleum exploration in Senegal: it
calls for systematic promotion of the Casamance offshore region and other
areas where permits would be relinquished in June 1983. At the same time, the
Government intends to initiate specific exploration efforts in two small areas
which it currently holds:  Dome Flore, where it hopes to attract a foreign
partner, and Diam Niadio, where it intends to use external financing to cover
the cost of exploration/development if no interested private partner can be
found.
46. Exploration Promotion. Although most of Senegal's sedimentary area is
presently under permit, the pace of exploration has been slow. The Government
has decided therefore to follow a systematic approach in the promotion of
exploration: a complete compilation, review, and interpretation of all
existing geological and geophysical data on its basins. It will also revise
the existing legal and contractual framework for petroleum exploration. In
November 1981, consultants (ARL, Portugal) were hired under PPF financing to
carry out a preliminary compilation of existing data and to prepare technical
assistance and training programs for DMG and PETROSEN.  The April 1982
consultants' report is the basis for the basin studies and technical
assistance components of the proposed project (see Part IV). Pa-rallel to this
effort, the Government is planning to commission, under financing from POIAC
(the Canadian Government's aid agency for the petroleum sector), a seismic
survey of the Casamance offshore area, which then could possibly be followed
by exploratory drilling, in order to promote the area to the industry. The
Government has also hired consultants to revise the Petroleum Code and prepare
model contracts, taking into account current industry practices and the
country's hydrocarbon potential (para. 41).



16
47. Exploration. In 1979, the Government identified Dome Flore as a
prospective area where production could be expected shortly, and asked for
IDA's assistance in promoting it to foreign oil companies. Under financing
from two TDA PPF advances (US$200,000 in January 1980 and US$800,000 in March
1981) and an EIB grant of about US$520,000 (February 1981), the Government:
(a) retained exploration consultants to carry out a comprehensive
reinterpretation of existing data; (b) commissioned a high resolution seismic
survey of Dome Flore (May 1981); and (c) had consultants carry out an economic
analysis of the appraisal and development of the area, prepare institutional
arrangements and contractual terms for proposal to private partners, and
organize promotion seminars for the industry in Dakar and Houston (June-July
1982). Oil companies were requested to make proposals for entering into a
joint-venture with PETROSEN for the exploration/development of Dome Flore.
PETROSEN has received one proposal, and negotiations are currently
proceeding. EVT has informed IDA that it is considering financing PETROSEN's
share, possibly with private partners.
48. The Government has also requested IDA and POIAC assistance in initiating
an exploration program in the Diam Niadio area (para. 44). A preliminary
study is being carried out by PETROSEN consultants (under PPF financing) and
PCIAC. A program for further geophysical work which would permit coverage of
both shallow and deep prospects was agreed upon at a joint meeting in July
1982. IDA would finance works aimed at shallow depths and POIAC would finance
those aimed primarily at deeper horizons. The first phase of this program, to
be financed by PCIAC, includes gravimetric and magnetic surveys, a semi-
detailed seismic survey (about 400 line-km), and some high resolution seismic
tests (about 100 line-km), primarily to detect deposits in the shallow sands
(para. 44). If the results justify continuation, IDA would finance the second
phase, a detailed seismic survey (about 500 line-km) of the shallow
prospects. With the results of this geophysical program, the Government would
then decide on further steps--either promoting the area to oil companies,
carrying out exploratory drilling under external financing (possibly as part
of a second IDA project), or discontinuing any further activity altogether.
Since nearly two-thirds of the prospective area is under the permit currently
held by SNEA (with first relinquishment due in January 1984), arrangements
satisfactory to IDA should be concluded between SNEA and the
Government/PETROSEN to allow for the exploration and development of the Diam
Niadio area by PETROSEN. Negotiations are now underway and an agreement
should be forthcoming shortly. Disbursement of the IDA credit against the
second phase of seismic works would be conditional upon the conclusion of such
an agreement (para. 59).
IDA's Role
49. This Government strategy is both cautious and well-advised since it
limits the Government's financial exposure and should lead to accelerated
exploration by foreign companies in most of Senegal's basin. As indicated
above, IDA has played a major role in helping the Government to develop it.
IDA's future role should be: (a) to continue to strengthen the sector's
institutions by providing appropriate technical assistance; (b) to help the
Government prepare a systematic promotion to foreign companies of the areas to
be relinquished in 1983 and 1984 (by developing a comprehensive data base on



17
the country's basins and an appropriate legal/contractual framework): and (c)
to help the Government assess the potential of the areas it currently holds
jointly with other co-financing sources, with a view to promoting them to
foreign companies whenever possible.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
50.  The proposed project was identified during an IDk mission to Senegal in
April 1979, prepared under financing from two PPF advances made in January
1980 and March 1981, and appraised in November 1981. Negotiations were held
in Dakar in December 1982. The Senegalese delegation was headed by Mr.
Mamoudou Toure, Minister of Planning and Cooperation. k Credit and Project
Summary appears at the beginning of this report, and a Supplementary Project
Data Sheet is given in Annex III.  No Staff Apraisal Report has been prepared.
Project Objectives
51.      The objectives of the project are:
(a) to help the Government promote petroleum exploration by foreign
companies in the Casamance offshore area and in the rest of Senegal's
sedimentary basins where partial relinquishments of permits are due
through 1984;
(b)  to assist the Government in carrying out exploration of the Diam
Niadio area where production prospects may be too marginal to
interest foreign companies but whose development might still prove
profitable for the Government; and
(c)  to strengthen DMG as the Government's policy-making body for the
petroleum sector and PETROSEN as the instrument of this policy.
Project Description
52.      The project would consist of:
(a) basin studies, consisting, in the first phase, of a complete study of
Senegal's sedimentary basins, including the compilation, review, and
interpretation of existing geological and geophysical data (about 143
man-months), and, in the second phase, of Senegal's share of two
integrated basin-wide studies with Guinea-Bissau and The Gambia, on
the one hand, and with Mauritania, on the other (about 15 man-
months). These three countries share two large basins with Senegal,
and such studies would facilitate full understanding of their
geology. These three countries' shares are also to be financed by
IDA (under Credits 1175-MAU, 1095-GUB, and 1187-GM, respectively).
Each Government would enter into a contract with the consultants and
supply them with available data. After completion of each study,
each respective Government would receive a basin report and a



18
separate country report. During both study phases, Senegalese staff
would be trained by the consultants;
(b) assistance to PETROSEN including: (i) the services for 30 months of
one full-time expatriate senior explorationist, to help set up
PETROSEN's Exploration Department; (ii) 90 man-months of resident
expatriate petroleum specialists (e.g. geologists, drilling engineer
and/or production engineer) for 2 to 6 month assignments to
complement and train PETROSEN's local staff as the need arises:
(iii) consultants to assist in the promotion of Government acreage,
negotiations of contracts with foreign companies, monitoring of
current and future exploration programs (about 13 man-months), and
evaluating the feasibility of investment proposals in the petroleum
sector (about 15 man-months); (iv) vehicles and office equipment
necessary to support both PETROSEN and consultant activities, (v)
training of staff abroad; and (vi) external audits (para. 59);
(c)  assistance to DXG, including: (i) 48 man-months of expatriate
petroleum specialists (engineers and economists) to complement and
train DMG's own staff; (ii) about 48 man-months of legal consultants
to revise the present petroleum legislation and contractual framework
and review PETROSEN's legal status; (iii) office and laboratory
equipment; and (iv) training of staff abroad;
(d)  geophysical program in the Diam Niadio area, including: (i) a first
phase consisting of gravimetric and detailed magnetic surveys, a
semi-detailed land seismic survey (about 400 line-km) aimed at deep
structures previously identified, together with some high resolution
seismic tests in specific locations to be determined; and (ii) a
second phase, detailed seismic survey (about 500 line-km) aimed
primarily at the shallow horizons, if justified by the results of the
first phase (para. 48). IDA financing of the second phase would be
subject to submission of satisfactory justification and a detailed
program as well as to the conclusion of an agreement between the
Government/PETROSEN and SNEA (para. 59).
(e) exploration of the Casamance offshore area, including:
(i) approximately 2,300 km of marine seismic lines, and processing
and interpretation thereof, and (ii) exploratory drilling, if
justified.
Cost Estimates
53.      The total cost of the project, net of duties and taxes 2',  is
estimated at US$25.2 million, including refinancing of the two PPF advances
totalling US$1.0 million. The foreign cost is US$22.4 million, i.e., 89% of
total project cost. The average cost of consulting services and expatriate
experts has been estimated at US$14,700 per man-month (1982 prices), including
travel, subsistence and overhead. This amount is reasonable taking into
I/ Exemption of taxes and duties is provided by the Petroleum Code.



19
account the high level of expertise required and prevailing fees in the
petroleum industry.  The cost of seismic surveys (including processing and
interpretation) is estimated at US$6,000 per line-km inland and US$1,000
offshore.  Tot.al cost estimates include physical contingencies of 10A for all
project components. Price contingencies of 8% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for
1984 and 71 for 1985 have been applied.
Financing Plan
54.      The proposed IDA Credit of US$9.5 million equivalent would cover the
foreign cost component of: (i) the basin studies; (ii) most of the assistanice
to PETROSEN and part of the training of DMG's staff; and (iii) the second
phase of seismic works (those aimed at the shallow horizons) in Diam Niadio,
if justified, as well as the refinancing of the two PPF advances (para. 4:7).
In October 1982, PCIAC made a grant of Can$16.2 million (US$13.7 million
equivalent) to Senegal to cover the cost of: (i) most of the technical
assistance to DMG; (ii) the initial geophysical works (including the semi-
detailed seismic survey) in Diam Niadio; and (iii) a seismic survey in the
Casamance offshore area. PCIAC's grant also includes a contingent amount of
Can$10 million (TIS$8.5 million) for exploratory drilling.  (This has been
included in the Casamance exploration program for purposes of presentation,
but could partially be used in other areas held by the Government/PETROSEN, if
warranted). Arrangements for parallel co-financing would be made between
PCIAC and IDA. In May 1982, NORAD (Norway) approved a grant of NK3.1 million
(US$0.5 million equivalent) to cover the cost of legal studies to be carried
out by NPC (para. 41). In addition, the Government has agreed to contribute
an aggregate amount of at least US$1.5 million equivalent towards the cost of
the project (US$750,000 in 1983, US$485,000 in 1984, and US$265,000 in 1985);
these amounts represent the local cost portion of the IDA-financed components
of the project (US$815,000) and PETROSEN''s estimated administrative
expenditures during the project implementation period (US$685,000) and would
be made available to PRETROSEN at the beginning of each calendar year. The
project financing plan can be summarized as follows:
Financing Plan 1/
(US$ million)
IDA      PCIAC    NORAD    Gov't       Total
Refinancing PPF                   1.0          -         -         -       1.0
Basin Studies                     3.4          -         -      0.3        307
Assistance to PETROSEN            2.2          -         -      0.9        3.1
Assistance to DMG                 0.1        1.3       0.5        -        1.9
Diam Niadio Geophysical Program 2.8          2.0         -      0.3 2      51
Casamance Offshore Exploration    -         10.4         -      -         10.4
(incl. contingent drilling)
TOTAL                      9.5      13.7       0.5       1.5       25.2
1/ all figures rounded.
2/  includes estimated damage claims related to the land seismic survey.



20
55.      The proposed Credit would be made on standard IDA terms and passed on
by the Government to PETROSEN as an advance, except for US$0.1 million, to be
kept for training DMG's staff (Section 3.01, draft Development Credit
Agreement). After project completion, and in consultation with IDA, this
advance could be converted into debt, in light of PETROSEN's forecast earning
capacity (Section 3.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
56.      The Government would entrust the basin studies to PETROSEN.
PETROSEN, in turn, intends to retain ARL, which carried out the preliminary
work (para. 47). This arrangement is satisfactory to IDA. PETROSEN would
also receive ARL's assistance in the promotion of acreage, contract
negotiations and the monitoring of current and future exploration programs
(including those for Diam Niadio and the Casamance offshore), in setting up
its external training program, and in identirying suitable candidates for the
expatriate specialists' positions. PCIAC would arrange the recruitment of the
expatriate specialists for DMG. The gravimetric, magnetic, and semi-detailed
seismic surveys in Diam Niadio would be carried out by a Canadian contractor
selected by PCIAC, in consultation with PETROSEN and IDA; the detailed seismic
survey, if justified, would be carried out by foreign contractors with IDA
financing (para. 53) and under the supervision of PETROSEN, assisted by ARL.
Efforts would be made to minimize the damages to crops and property resulting
from the seismic program. The exploration program for the Casamance offshore
area would be implemented by Canadian contractors selected by PCIAC, in
agreement with PETROSEN and in consultation with IDA. Proper environmental
and safety criteria would be applied in carrying out the program. The review
of the petroleum legislation is being carried out by NPC under DMG's
supervision, and is scheduled to be completed by M4arch 1983.
57.      The basin studies are expected to be completed by mid-1985.
The review of the petroleum legislation would be completed by February 1983
and assistance for the promotion and negotiation of future blocks would be
provided through mid-1985, by which time a contract on the last area to be
partially relinquished should have been concluded. In Diam Niadio, the
gravimetric and magnetic survey is scheduled to take place in early 1983 and
the semi-detailed seismic survey should be completed by mid-1985. Further
seismic works could extend into the first half of 1984. The marine seismic
survey in the Casamance offshore area is scheduled for the first quarter of
1983 and subsequent drilling could take place during 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.      Consultants financed under the proposed Credit would be retained
according to IDA guidelines (Schedule 1, draft Project Agreement). IDA-
financed vehicles and office equipment (about US$75,000) would be procured
locally after receiving price quotations from at least three qualified
suppliers. Contracts for seismic works financed by IDA (about US$2-7 million)
would be awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance
with IDA guidelines (Schedule, draft Project Agreement).



21
59.      Disbursements would be made for 100% of training expendityres, 95% of
the total cost of locally-procured vehicles and office equipment,- and 100%
of foreign expenditures for other goods and services financed by IDA, and
would be fully documented. As a condition for disbursements for the
integrated basin-wide studies, arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be made
for implementing these studies between Senegal, The Gambia, and Guinea-Bissau,
on the one hand, and between Senegal and Mauritania, on the other (Schedule 1,
draft Development Credit Agreement), and proper geological and geophysical
data would be made available. Disbursements for the second phase of seismic
works in Diam Niadio would be subject to the conclusion of an agreement,
satisfactory to IDA, between the Government/PETROSEN and SNEA for the
exploration/development of the Diam Niadio area and to the presentation to IDA
of satisfactory justification and a detailed work program (Schedule 1, draft
Development Credit Agreement). In the case where such seismic works in the
Diam Niadio were deemed unwarranted, or if no arrangements could be made for
the implementation of the integrated basin-wide studies, the corresponding
portions of the Credit would be cancelled. Advances from the Project
Preparation Facility, totalling US$1 million, would be refunded from the
proceeds of the Credlt (Section 2.02 (b), Development Credit Agreement).
The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1985.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
60.      PETROSEN completed setting up its accounting system in December
1981. Proper accounting records are currently being kept by a service bureau
due to the relatively low level of expenditures handled by PETROSEN (about
US$1.3 million in FY82).  However, a full-time accountant would be hired by
mid-1983, i.e., when PETROSEN would start to incur large expenses under the
proposed project. PETROSEN has agreed to maintain its financial statements in
accordance with sound accounting principles and to have them audited yearly by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditor's reports would be
submitted to IDA within four months of the end of each fiscal year, starting
with FY83 (Section 4.02, draft Project Agreement). External audits for FY83
to FY85 would be financed under the proposed credit. PETROSEN would submit
both quarterly and annual reports on project implementation in a format
acceptable to IDA, as well as a project completion report no later than six
months after the closing date of the Credit (Section 3.03, draft Development
Credit Agreement and Section 2.05, draft Project Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
61.      The benefits of the basin studies and technical assistance components
of the project would be to help promote petroleum exploration in Senegal by
providing the Government with the information and institutional and legal
framework necessary to attract foreign oil companies on favorable terms for
the country. The main risk of these components would be failure to attract
sufficient industry interest. However, given the recent discoveries made in
other parts of West Africa, the proposed exploration promotion is expected to
I/ Net of taxes and duties.



22
draw a good response from. oil companies.  Technical assistance to DMG and
PETROSEN would provide them with the technical and human resources needed to
liaise with foreign oil companies, monitor their activities, and conserve and
interpret any data acquired.
62.      The benefits of the exploration program in the Casamance offshore
area would be proper assessment of the area's potential, in order to promote
it to the industry oni favorable terms for the country. The benefits of the
Diam Niadio geophysical program would be proper assessment of the potential of
an area which, although prospects are probably too marginal to interest
foreign oil companies, appears to offer a good opportunity to meet some of
Senegal's petroleum needs from domestic resources on an economic basis. The
major risk of these two components is that the size of the deposits (if any)
would not prove sufficient to make development of the fields economically
viable; however, given the current data on both areas, it is believed that
this risk is outweighed by the potential benefits associated with a commercial
discovery.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and PETROSEN, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
64.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by M. Qureshi
Attachments



- 23 -
Page I
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE GAOES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             196.2                                 MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      109.0              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                  2iO.0        260.0     450.0                 1053.2                   1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      116.1       116.6      253.1                 610.1                    713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TEOUSANDS)  3076.0       4267.0    5661.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.6         23.7       25.4                  28.3                     47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          34.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        15.7        21.7       28.1                  54.7                     35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      31.0        40.8       50.6                 129.9                    420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.7        43.9       44.7                  46.0                     44.3
15-64 YRS.                          54.3        53.2       52.5                  51.1                     52.4
65 YRS. AND ABCVE                    3.0         2.9        2.8                   2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         3.3        2.8                   2.8                      2.8
URBAN                               2.4         3.7        3.5                   5.2                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.9        46.8       47.8                  47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.5        23.2       21.3                  15.7                     12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         3.2        3.2                   3.2                      2.9
FAMILY PLANhNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
ENDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PEP CAPITA (1969-71=100)          125.0        83.0       86.0                  90.7                    100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREIMENTS)                  109.5        98.8       94.8/c                93.9                    108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           73.2        66.2       63.77T                54.8                     71.9
OF WHICH ANIHAL AND PULSE        22.5        20.8       18.6/c                17.0                     18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY 3         41.8        36.8       31.8                  23.9                     15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2         40.3       43.2                  51.0                     56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           181.7       164.4      146.8                 118.5                    104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      37.0/d                  ..                     59.1
URBAN                                ..           ..      68.0/d                  ..                     83.1
RUtEAL                               ..           ..      23.0                    ..                     39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          21971.4     16224.3   15709.6/c              14185.2                   4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2839.5/e    1888.1    1392.5/c               2213.2                   1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             735.0       790.3      900.5/c              1036.4                    641.7
URBAN                             391.3/f     346.5      422.07h               430.8                    538.3
RURAL                            1812.47T    1311.9    1432.9Th               3678.6                   2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         22.2      29.2/c                                         25.5
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..          7.6/g
RURAL                                ..         6.0/g
AVERAGE NLMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.5/h         ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URRAN                                ..           .
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 24 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 27.0         38.0       42.0                   83.3                      88.7
MALE                  36.0         47.0       51.0                   96.1                     104.5
FEMALE                17.0         30.0       34.0                   80.4                      72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          9.0       10.0/j                 15.3                      39.7
MALE                   4.0         13.0       14.0/J                 19.4                      49.3
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0        6.o073                11.3                      29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  23.1             9.2        ..                    4.7                      10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             43.2/f       45.0       42.3/c                 38.6                      34.1
SECONDARY                           34.0         34.3       21.0oT                 23.4                      23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           5.6/i       10.0      10.0/c                 35.6                      43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.5           9.0       9.2/k                 31.9                      17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          40.6         62.8       54.4                   71.8                     131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         0.3        0.4                   17.9                      44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     6.5          4.7       4.5                   19.1                      31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..       0.7/d                  0.6                       1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1424.0       1860.3    2311.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    39.5         39.0       38.4                   36.5                      10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               84.0          80.0      76.0                   56.5                      42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0           7.0      10.0                   17.7                      27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  46.3         43.6      40.8                   37.0                      26.0
MALE                                   56.3         53.7      50.8                   46.9                      46.2
FEMALE                                 36.4        33.7       31.0                   27.2                       5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.3                        1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8/1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.5/1            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.27./.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED AESOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                  507.0                     279.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..      82.0                  200.6                     178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      194.0                  523.9                     403.6
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                  203.6                     285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                     ..                      22.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                     ..                      30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1976;  /e 1963;  /f 1962;  /g 1973;  /h 1955;  /i African population only;  /j 1975;
/k 1974; /1 Population.
May, 1982



DEft'lNITIONS OF SXtCOM  ItDICATRIS
lts    letegh thedtar  d-st from  so--e  o--rily jadged the etatoittesdreibe   tsol   loh  noted t,Ihat they toy no  ht ine--
sociealy cmprbie -eoo   of bth  loot of otdardoed lefititi.t and concPts omdb   ifrn   anoe   ocletn    he data.  The dat- r,  or
thele... omega1 to descibe ordeo of mgoitode, indicate t-dt, and  oa                       --eie  eti, major differ--a  hntceeoIo..teltt.
fthe  frec       _goos  r (_)tenn   non  goy5  h   ojn  cntny ot  (2)- acostrY go-P mith tosehan highe Inecago boon                                   thannh  country g-op
so   snf  siort  oustionmstb  roeotad i  re-idi --avrae  of- the l _d                ,,tnt  ...th.. ihs.     segsaeol   sts.o   optn   h   aeo
Ttl-Tonal a-efa-  are        1inctlg lan'd are  ad icloodoucet; 1919 dat.-ahc   o   oa)dnsdb   ii  epcbcohno   occlhd
foecrPs, P--cr-t  machen and oilhcb-         eso  to its folos  9197  data.                 hohil-ita .l ..c..te   R. noyofaratbfhsst pouetynrtd
US$                                                          b~~~~                                                ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~y atlatoopymoet   tufhec   rndlog p=NttpIly  cas
im    f  tOIh  it -- dt1tcpt   utsraa   srn  soha   -se    a-                                dia  car  are Sen isldd    otlh-iao. snn   nooshuo
tutord bysomecoonrsio  meho-   a  tlart d gas  Ii-  (19783-bl hootm  ; 191,d medical  _eceo0  pecaesl  gnfe'yapyiin(o  y
G971, an '!gy na          i-.                                                                      medit- WoostAnt  tore.sidit,  ho-ptei-l    otter tnp nes  ootom
WD, -d 19813                                                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~ann  sdptodeaiefe   rses    effud tby litA . pehya
ff.11  Cfflg PiO  Ph      PITAt     Mois  ..os.option of  craeabltosgy (fitio-l p-rpme  osg   tptl   oloehf   cota/gsclhniat
otl iglt, pet-oem   ostct1 got And hydc-,  -oleat aed goothe-1s slt-                        acd tota  hosPfcit-, loca  ot rua   opnl-sdmdcl  o  oenn
tdlice   aiigosofco   ntoet  eo   is   oI  1971, tod 1971                                        octc.ittlodhm it:ls or_olddot  o  cttl
data.                                                                odmiomloes pee nampina.Vtl mod - Tnt  cusor of  dm ei-o-  to or disoh-eg-
POPULATION ~~~~ID VITAL STATLSTICS                                       I~~fet-  hoP!tytatdiNidod by she ss-hc  of bedo.
Totl  Psltis   idls   tbnod)- At of Joly 1; 1960. 1971,..so  1980                           HOUSNGfit
Udos                                                                                           ncefleoAatbdlyreoprbnced- tunl,una,  edroo-
tlbonepltn  (pocen  ofttl       ai   f cabs to tocu1  Aaoaot                                      h. -oobol  -anta-  ot         o   of foiid-al echo  obh-  liningqaenr
differen  defi.teicn  of -bho  aromy offe-   -sa-bilily  of data                               v-d  he_  main meals.  A  aa-d- oc lodger soy ormy no  he islaled Is
._ameo _otete-; 1963. 1973. and 1980 duts.                                                     the hotehaid fo m-      ostclpoepsoes
t-e1 Popolatton hy age ad se  cod nhegr -toenity and geo1n-              oe.delig,rsetvl.flelnss  nectperaotecooa- eac
Peojeoftan parameters for sartaliy rates ropisa of three 1-nei  _sosbco_pted pats.
nag lfIf  -tyrraty an hi,th i-r--oto  Jth  a_-te. per capita itom                          tese  lorct   srrno   elooy-   total.arhac  sod  ural 
lend  asdlocae lit ePct-ao  stabtlistcg at 77.3yet.  Th   os                          onttl-I dmelilon.ih eetrtly vsiheft  qoar-- o  pn-cennge
mecte  far ferllt tp  rate elsa bone thre  levels anosI        eoosInotta,rb,anerldelog te etnfy
fotiyZ_       edt5c i    nit_s-    1-01 sod pas  family psas-no  pertormace
lathf-oonn  to then  -ntited on  of these nice  _oitaloe. of mortality                  EDUCATION
sd _frility ned  far pejecloproes                                                         doidtooleetiosP-...
ittani--ay -papoisto   -Iooaftrpouaion there tot   eehceePteyOho]-ttl   oealfsl-i sttl    atndttl
itheyeolhlgaodnc_in  nO d-t-dntn-  -atilmnrat  tarop..a-t-                                  fctayo a-stal,m-I-'aedfamale-Ynmiofd-  aehilde; seodoer1
meet  ioe.                                                                                      dnt.toeqalesof- em   fotyato ppraned priay,.                      nuaie
eantcseypopalati-o Is _oL-ed - Tho yea  thee stet...sy pspslanioe                       pronide   eea,vctsa.o  taher   tein ltrslsi fTc poptlm
aloe sil h.o..e.                                                                               salylfct2oto Lpeey-sftgtoarcssn __c-cra..r -00cly
Per~, s k.h.   Mittd-y-a  populatios per sq-ar  hiloete-  (1ff h-ot-eee  ofIottnlnolmn(prenfsnodyt-toaonlonbnim
total ace; 1900, 1970 sad 1179 dat.                                                         Otolado  ohla.hdaca.o   te   rtoseihoeaooeea
Per so.he. aelaulturl lcad- Insstd 05 abtv  to- sti-lcotoo   lost                      -ttlp s  Os depa-ton-  of veosdarYlnttt,
only; 1966, 1971 end 1979 date.                                                           Pnc-eo          ano-pIay  edscooy-tota  -cd-ts enrolled In
paaann   atOnocc   Cpccnl                ildcon  (n-li years.), macine-age (is-                  peimary sod  . ot-dat  lene   dinided by  -noe-  cC toh-bIratneb
hi years). sod t'i"d (h5 yn-rm  -tdse)a  percent. of ,dO-yea  pop-                             -acrep-od,s   ee
ltatto; 1963, 1970, aad 19Sf dan.-                                                              l  itec    ontntet                 ...lcteo     adults (able no ot-d sod eitef
patonltoso sooct,mate lerorac  - toal - evoastgo-on  t-lc  of nata  aid-           osoactiof tota  odolt  pspoltt- toed  v pear  ead seer.
yea popolatino far 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1sp0-8n.
popultioj    cotbRt  (ecn)     ro  -   nA-I getet  eatto  of neh- Pop.-                     ClltSttTINm
lati-o  fto  1911-Al. 1960-70, and 1970-8i.Pssecicnpethaodopllof-aseg.tcoopinmcr
fCode tiedton  irntomn) -hnl lti- biths too th-n-ed of sid-yeac                                  oars    atio  len  that eight pttss;eahde-ael                   h-- bate  and
.pepatIl..; 1960, 19700 .ad 1990 data.                                                        avtsynhfls
npalts;16.I .ad18t dat a.leanan   to   o-na  poblln Pns tondof popuIltL-n; coo I'de s-
trt   eeoottslte - A-erag   -nh- of d-oglhr-- aaasall hea  in                           loend retn. tcot  a   n  i   st   h rgorna   of radio
tiIycne   saly fineb-ra  anraem     diog to 19Af. l97ll..an  1981.                   mstoten abolished Li--asog
Pamtl  Plsafag- loeytns, .casa  (thoaasn) -donnln-b-e of ac-ptnre              TI ensye  (e  hoon   oplto) - TV rteie    orhrnloaft to
Po _lyPla      U.-ler               __ret  tmried mct   _tnng   o   arid                    tvcnn_ite i.~and to nest  shareltrtscv  TV st  a  to  ffnt-
ma:In ofhoild -heola  ogeIll-44 yeast) ohs  g  bteth-ce-l  dentesc- taeoe,ioltis(e   hoadpcn.ln)-Iosteeeastc
oi   arsd  oe   _rsaeg  g-np.                                                         sateof 'daily g--erl tot-csse-pop-c, dousedasapWdtindoa
F11ODDO ANDfPfITIlnT                                                                               ta be e1011.i yff te ap.pea__a tloath  loo    _,meIncek
ledesnf Pol POdtntio penispis (lyy~llayfI- inle  of Pen nopit a-sova            tisaAea   ttmso   e  ain-e eeOod sothe ouchor nf
peadott-    of all frd -cnedelit.- Ptenri-n -ne,des toad atd feed and                        tilhet  mold dorteg tho~ Year. i-lndig admIsions- to dcri-in oln-es
to antl-d-t y-u  hasim.  Camndltie_ noe  peigary ga-dt (... eng_-as                           and sobile o_lt~.
i-et-d ol -tir) stOol ar  edithlsadc-ttiaetress(e.g.  afte- sea
tea are  sldod).  Aggregate rt_dccla  or eah   otti  based atLABCne FORCf
natiaot anoogepeadaer prce cighen  190-65 , l1t9 ao  198f dat.-                 Total labor Poros (eo     ,oo         - .lo ioolty actlne p--as, i-olodtag
Psr capta onpiy of cterieslpeea-t eL-esotscati  - lopotod trom                         atmd faees  00-sepln.ytd inenlcn   escbe,saec.e
pee lay.   nA-ilbhle mppLies  -opeime d-matic  eeanie,gpsrtn Itsn                             net -sgact.la; 1961. 1911 and 19ff lots.
-sot,te    hnoiontc . Io  n-ppli-s  -Icdr animal feed,  -edt.                       Po-le heO-_ett  _- peou.a fois    i       - asP_-nenafea  at-1 lbtt  torte
cat -toe timtd b3 FAO hoad ophysiloli-cl neds foe norma   coi-                           fihn   s   eossf itoa  labon funny  1960  1971Y at  ly98tna
nlep an _halh  -aosdeeicg ao.r..       na  toprnaa  hotethn   i                                aaeyfe           )-Lubos foect  in  ting,  ...st-otiac, stftne
and sco dstetbasno  at poynlnfan. an  al-oing  lt Pc_on  "innbottot,                 an-   lceon,stcad   gar-                 peatgof tatat labor fore
banoehel  lenel;  961-il,1970 eed 1977 dat.                                              19A11  1970 ao-1d    dot.
-et-pplyat ffolpe P       an   net apyf tasl iadafirad sohn.-  it-attnopacsetmatdosrl    l    n    m                                                     aleosfa-     a
qur 1os  o   l  cstttte  rntsjhlibr bYUSDth pnsnidt for onso-                        pe-tscges  tofntal, male  td f_mle  aaatso   l   gmepciey
alto..o.e  of hI g-aa  ftonal P--t-p-e dal and If icons at anisl ast                         1960, i970, atl 1910 data.Then  ac  b-td no  lfs part icp.tin  eaten
Pu,s pa_beto. of  hid  IO i-n  aLsoid ha animal pc-i-   hea  stood-                           er tletlg an-se    ---cnr  of the  -papl-ts  and loot tIe tred.A
aeds are Iore  b  thatnhv  of 71 itam   of tota  prtein  -td 23 gross of                      fecviatoaefeat sotan..l  -nso-.
anmlpetf  so an -veag  ins the todd. prap-sd by PAt it thr IAhtd                    tootntlysloa   ai  - lat. of  .poplation and- II and 65 sod s
Atoll Pool 5o-a; 1961-65,l9Pialf177 dto.                                                      to tht total lmb-r forte
fe   aieeoesstl-freaIa   e   os   Petetai capply si food do-
dee   Ire  otmlo  odpalrsin  roo  pr ny;19b1-h651970 sod 1971 dat.           INtlOth tITftIBllTtnN
thid(so  i-it4      otlt  (e   h ad   - o 1a deaths tar ah-sad is                              eceem   ot tomato  Inno   (both in  -oa  se, hind) - boomed by rh.btt
agId on  "itI cor,n tldrt- ic thia -ge seoss  f-r mettnlln   os                                  ec , ciohegt 20 pecren, pn-eet 70 gt-cs., -an  posees. Of4  p--ost
Itee  daodeIed"P       slt  tabls; 16(.191C od 1980 lisa.o   __arhsdm.
itiliytl_Ptflttlf  708b1-_i1960f
Lifefopoc  a   it  (years) A- erge to-t- of year  of liff  -ematieg                           Thbtfnlluaisg ot o   areny typ-iotmaem  seso  pone-y ien-b,
atbtl;110   971an  1980 da.nd snoald be-t-ter--d mOth  -sssd-rbln   ochs
..ot  tettygt        e (Par th-o...ad) -   oA-1 loathe atf ictattoan~tt  n  yea               Lntimatod Aholr- Poery_som   tene  (iIs$.e  cpett) - -rh   nd enro -1
ot se  per th ...adltine Iltrtb; 1960, 1911  aol 1980  Aana                                  Melote porercy istnm   teo   stathcs-eelblscic      tis
Oceassfe Wtt(tooofacatet-ttlore,adoal-tns-                                                 -otcti-ally adequat  dIet plotrscna  oso-f-leoteetst  o
bsr sI pnotle (it -,uban, ad tora) nit  ro ~Tmtile macems cfsae                                tfodbo.,
moo_tp ly (itIlide  frtted  oet    c  macee trneeasd hat o-tt-eh-ted                     latimated Re.i-tn  Panetly Ioonm  Ito1 (1111 ye  -sita) - seb.a and es-t
yecet-5_ of ibsis  cten -         patni-I.fAasm      .              A s  rateopbhlitproa   eoc   ftecaip.I                               iali  Inind frmthe carol.
f-totis -o s_map-a .. tate  sot mat that 200  atore ftee  ahbo- may be                          - lev lhsu  adjoet-et f-o high., tooo   tieg inseaoaras
-ea-bsle  -.em   ma-Id irtly tta- the hoso--its or meter  of eto b-ehald                      aed focal - Perco  of T.Eopolet    (orb- soad   -Ieal  otto ere   amt
In man hmet  spood A diepeopoetismat  poet of the day  Lo gtaiog the
Nocee  f popl  (ttal  tbas  ae  rual)coredb'y e-tee   dispoca..as
sod            bey-aeei  mate-btoet  aymte   a  the eec of Pie Prieiee ael sei-
PoeomtnoOc eheetrias -                   dsas  nhi~led he -e.ho  ot eme--ise etsfi-                                                 tcoimetatlData  iloe
sito mifiiie  les  a malteal ethol At melecesiy leVel.                                                                   teo-ott  do-lpets an  Preteietstie. DPeotm
Oceoatto  earitmeiassPeest -  apeiniosdivided by eamim  ci prtLmitstg                                                                 May 1952
mal aa  meleiedmreoees  astsca  mtes,ps.ctrl  neseAMd



Dec. 3- 1982.
Page 4
SENEGAL-ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 5,864 (mid-1981, thousands)
GNP per capita: US$500 (1981)
Amount
(million US$                                                           Annual gruwth rates (d) at constant prices
Indicator                  at current prices)                              Actual                                       Preliminary                                      Projected
1980                  -------------------------------------_---------------------------_--__--__--                                     __-- __-- __-- __-- __-- __--__ -
1975         1976          1977        1978          1979          1980          1981          1982          1983        1984         1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product a/                   2744                   7.0           7.9          0.8        -9.0            8.1        -7.6           -0.4          10.2           4.5          3.3          3.7
Agriculture                              623                   9.2           9-5          -7.2       -6.2           17.1       -11.7           -5.8          19.9           5.6          4.4          4.8
Industry                                 686                   5.1           7.5           4.5      -10.6            9.8       -14.9             6.3         10.6           5.3          4.6          4.0
Services                                 1431                  6.7           7.3           3.4       -7.7            7.5        -6.2           -2.7           7.7           4.2          2.6          3.8
Consumption                                 2838                   6.5           2.4         18.7       -14 4            1.5        -5.3            -.5           4.5           2.3        -0.5           1.4
Gross Investment                             386                 -28.6         38.9           4.0         1.0           38.9       -33.5           54.3           3.5          13.6         7.6          6.3
Exports of GNPS                              785                  12.0          24.9          5.3      -27.9            35.3       -11.8          -17.9          41.2           6.7          2.0          1.5
Imports of GNPS                             1265                   1.2         20.9           9.6         3.5           11.5       -20.3            8.3          -5.3          -5.1        -1.3          0.5
Gross Domestic Savings                     -94.2                 -24.1        113.6         -34.0      -29.0                                                     64.4         149.1         46.7        25.6
PRICES
GDP Deflator (1979 = 100)                                          -             -            -           -              100         112            124           148
Exchange Rate (USt=           )                                  214.3        239.0         245.7       225.6         212.7        211.3          272.0         340.0
Share of GDP at Market Price7                                                Average Anausl Increase (
(at current prices)                                                       (at constant prices)
1970         1975          1980        1985                       1970-1975           1975-1980            1980-1985
Gross Domestic Product                                           100.0          00.0        1O0.0       100.0                          2.3                  0.5                  4.3
Agriculture                                                   24.0          30.2          22.7       22.0                           3.0                -0.8                   5.5
Industry                                                      25.5          24.0          25.1       26.4                           3.8                  5.6                 6.2
Other                                                         50,5          45.8          52.2       51,6                           1.4                -1.6                   2.9
Consuimption                                                     89.0          90.0         103.4       88.0                           0.7                  1.8                  1.0
Gross Investment                                                  16.0          18 0         14.1        20.0                          4.7                  0.4                 15.0
Exports (GINFS)                                                   27.0         36.0          28.6        28.0                             -                 2.8                  3.3
Imports (GNFS)                                                    32.0         42.0          46.1        36.0                             -                -2.1                 -0.2
Gross Donestic Savings                                            11.3          12.3         -0.4        12.0                          3.0                  0.7                 40.0
PUBLIC FINANCE b/                                                 FY76         FY77          FY78        FY79          FY80           FY81            FY82
(in billion CFA francs)
Current Revenue                                               77.1          91.7          97.1      107.5          134.1          125.5           147.2
Current Expenditures                                          77.2          83.1          94.1      101.4          131.8          139.6           155.6
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                                    -0.1           8.6           3.0        6.1            2.3         -14.1             -8.4
Capital Expenditure                                           14.9          21.6           9.5       12.5           13.2           21.39/           5.4
Surplus  +-) or Deficit (-)                                  -15.0         -13.0          -6.5       -6.4          -10.9         -35.4            -13.8
aTAt market prices                                                                                                                                     ____----
b/ Central government only, excludes parastatals.
c/ Includes CFAF 8.8 billion for settlement of 5th plan operations.



Dec. 31. :992.
Annex 1
SENEGAL - EXTERNAL TRADE
Populiation: 5,864 (mid-1981,thousands)
GNP per capita: IJS$500 (1981)
Annual Growth rates   )at Conatant Prices
Amount                                 Actual                                   Preliminary                                     Es timat.
Indicator                                   (million TJS$ at            ---
currant prices)          1475         1976         1977        1978         1979        1980         1981                            1982
1980
EXTERNAI TRADE
Merchandise Exports                                492                21.9         34.6          6.0       -40.2         27.9       -31.5        -14.3                            52-5
PrimarV                                        324                 38.0        37.0          0.5       -49.4         44.5       -33.0        -16.7                            72.0
Manufactures                                    81                -15.6        39.1         19.5       -16.3         -2.3       -50.0        -20.0                             16.7
Petroleum                                       87                 -4.3       -27.3         87.5          6.7         3.1         60.0         0.1                             12.5
Merchandise Imports                                905                 2.3         25.8        13.6         -7.9         16.2       -16.4          2.2                            -1.6
Food                                           195                -23.9        41.5          7.6          6.5        18.0       -29.0         15.0                              0.1
Petroleum                                      276                  4.2          4.4        12.8          5.7        14.0         65.5         6.2                              7.8
Machinery and Equipment                        157                -13.0        12.1         18.4       -21.5         32.8          0.1        -3.7                              7.7
Others                                         277                 33.2        28.1         14.5        -8.9         10.3        -35.3        -4.0                             -1.4
PRICES
Export Price Index (1979 = 100)                                         89           78           97         101          100         114          152                             141
Import Price Index (1979 = 100)                                         87           86          92           93          100         120          141                             160
Terms of Trade Index (1979 = 100)                                       102          91          105         1O9          100          95          108                              88
Composition of Merchandise Trade (4)                                        Average Annual Increase (7)
(at current prices)                                                   (at constant prices)
1975        1980         1982                                 1975-1990                                           1980-1982
Exports                                                               100.0        100.0       100.-                                       -4.2                                                35.7
Primary                                                             70.5        65.0         69.1                                      -5.7                                                 48.5
Manufactures                                                        22.5         16.A        15.5                                      -_.0                                                  3.2
Petroleum                                                            7.0         17.5        15.4                                        1.7                                                 2.7
Imports                                                               100.0        100.0       100.0                                        4.6                                                17.5
Food                                                                23.2         23.3        24.0                                       12.1                                                37.'7
Petroleum                                                           12.0         30.5        27.2                                        9.0                                                 9.0
Machinery and Equiipment                                            18.4         17.3        16.1                                      -0.8                                                 14.8
Others                                                              46.4         28.9       -32.7                                        2.3l.
Share of Trade with                                 Share of Trade wits                                   Share of Trade with
Industrial Colntries (4)                            Developing Countries (4)                       Capital Surplus OLi Exporters (4)
1970          1975          1980         1981          1970         1975         1990       1981         '970          1975         1980          1981
DIRECTION OF TRADE                    *_____
Exports                                                               66.4          50.4         47.3           --          20.0         36.6       36.2          --            --           2.5           2.9
Imports                                                               67.1          60.6        68.4           --           11.5         18.7       15.8          --           4.1          18.0          12.9



Dec. 31, 1982.
Annex I
Page 6
S8.NFGAL - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTCERNAL_CAPTTAL AND DEBT
-        million~~s-T 03$at:_ cu rrentpr_ice.Sy
Population: 5,864 (mid-1981, thousands)
GNP per capita! 11S5O50 (1981)
ActuAi.                               Preliminary                                     Projected
Indicator                                                    1976          1977         1978          1979         1980          1981                            1982
Exports of Goods                                                 511.7        666.2        464.6          626-3       491.9         433.0                           494-1
Imaports of Goods                                                656.7        171.5        840.7         1004.2       905.2         919.1                           820.6
Services (net)                                                   -53.3        -69.5        -69.4         -11 3.1     -118.0        -143.4                           -120.6
Net TCransfers                                                   106.2        107.3        136.7          181.7       206.2         197.8                            127.0
Current Account Balance                                         -92-1         -67.5       -308.8         -309.3      -325.1        -431.7                           -320.1
Officiail Capital                                                 50.0         58.1        125.2           8 2.6      161.1         175.4                           180.3
Private Capital                                                   32.9         36.2         62.8           66.7        85.8          41.5                           38.2
Monetary Capital                                                   0.8         -0.4         -0.4           32.9          ----
Errors and Omissions                                               6.7        -17.5         37.2            --        -31.7          36.0                           -
Allocation of SDBs                                                 ---                        -5.6                      5.2           8.1                           -
overall Balance                                                   -1.7          8.9        -84.1        -121.5       -104.7        -170.6                           -101.5
Change in reserves (-increase)                                     1.7         -8.9         84.1          121.5       104.7         170.6                           101.5
Net foreign assets (inel. 1FF)                                   -43.0        -55.0        171.4         -315.0      -3B6.0        -463.5                           -562.4
1975         1976          1977       -1978           1979         1980          1981                            18
EICTERNAIL CAPITAL~ AND) DEBT
Gross Disbursements
Concessional Loans                               30.1         23.1          38.0        54.7           63.8         68.2         187 .5-                         149.6
DAC                                          11.6           8.6          15.8        12.8           10.5         12.5         37.2                           44.5
OPEC                                          0.2           2.2           2.2         0.0            6.7          3.7         60.0                           26.5
IDA                                          11.8          12.0          7.7          9.7           16.2         12.0         62.0                           44.2
Other                                         6.5           0.3          12.3        32.2           22.4         40.0         28.3                           34.4
Non-concesslonal Loane                           45.8         60.7          62.2       169.4          159.9        214.3         111.8'                          145.5
OEC                                           5.7           3.3           6.9        26.7           40.5        72.9          53.2                           42.8
IBRID                                         7.1           4.7          12.9         6.6           11.0         17.9         21.9                           29.5
Other Multilateral                            0.0           0.0           0.2         6.6            1.8         13.6          9.4                           25.7
Private                                      33.0          52.7          42.2       129.5          106.6        109.9         27.3                           47.3
Gxternal 'Debt
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                 296.6         351.4         428.3       614.4          797.5        957.4       1175.5                            1394.8
Official sources                            164.6         187.5        245.4        349.5          464.4       617.8         875.4                           1 101.17
Private sources                             132.0         163.9         182.9       264.9          333.1       339.6         300.1'                          293.1
Undisbursed Debt                               227.9         275.7         401.2       568.4          533.1        674.0        316.0                           790.3
Debt Service
Total, Service Payments                          39.4         42.9          56.5        99.5          122.6        180.0         1 27 .4                         127.0
Interest                                     18.5          18.2         20.8         30.5           44.1        57.0          46.5                           51.0
Payments as f Exports                             5.7          6.2           6.6        15.2           13.0         21.2          19.01 /                        16.6Ok'
Average Maturity on Bew Leans ()23.1                              19.2         11.2         12.8          20.9          8.0           8.0                           18.9)
Orficial                                         32.2         25.8          18.1        21.2           25.5          -             --
Prl-vate                                          5.4          6.2           6.2         6.7            6.5          -             --
a. rlid of Yost Becent
Year (1981)
Maturity Structure of Debt Outstanding
Principal dule within 5 years                                                                                           30.1
Principal due within 10 years                                                                                           56.8
Interest Structure of Debt Outstanding
Interest due within S yeasr                                                                                             18.6
1T-excludin-gIMP rep-orches..~
West Africa Begion



- 29 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1982)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan/Credit                                                               (US$ Million)
Number        Year    Borrower        Purpose                    Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Seven Loans* and sixteen Credits fully disbursed                    29.0    104.4
530-SE          1975    Senegal      Education II                            15.0          2.40
1113-SE         1975    Senegal      Agric. Diversification          4.2                   0.23
1222-SE         1976    Senegal      Third Highway                  15.0                   1.65
633-SE          1976    Senegal      Livestock                       4.2                   0.48
1332 SE         1976    SOFISEDIT   Second Development Finance   4.2                       0.31
1405T-SE        1977    Senegal      Port of Dakar                   6.0                   0.68
1412T-SE        1977    Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism            8.0                    2.64
1413--SE        1977    Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism             5.6                   1.83
764-SE          1978    Senegal      Para Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                           6.3          0.10
775-S,E         1978    Senegal       Irrigation                              20.0         4.98
1518--SE        1978    RCFS         Railways III                   11.0                   2.02
1665 -SE        1Q79    Senegal      Second Airport                 7.0                    3.58
S-23-SE         lq79    Senegal      Water Supply Engr.                       2.5          1.01
908-SE          1979    Senegal      Education III                           22.0         14.41
991-SE          1980    Senegal      Small Rural Operations                  11.0          9.26
993-SE          1980    Senegal      Fourth Highway                          28.0         17.25
1810-SE         1980    Senegal      Fourth Highway                 10.0                  10.0
S-26-SE         1980    Senegal      Power Eng and T.A.                       3,3          2.51
1931-SE         1980    Senegal      Structural Adjustment          30.0                  16.71
1061-SE         1981    Senegal      Technical Assistance                     4.4 3/       3.53
1973-SE         1981    SOC FIN      Investment Promotion            6.5                   6.5
SEN TOURIS
1136-SE         1981    Senegal      Investment Promotion                     2.25 2/      2.04
2025-SE         1981    Soc.D'Expl. Rail Transport 2l               19.3                  19.3
Ferroviaire
1103-SE         1981    Senegal      Forestry                                 7.83 3/      7.55
1176-SE         1981    Senegal      Agri. Research 2/                       18.2323/    18.23
Total                                     155.80   249.41       149.20
of which has been repaid                12.54     1.47
Total now outstanding                     143.26   247.94
Amount sold                     3.4
of which has been repaid   3.2          0.20      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         143.26   247.94
Total undisbursed                          65.45    83.75       149.20
*   A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was
cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/  From the US$7.0 million oroginal amount, US$2.8 million was cancelled on
June 25, 1982.
2/  Not yet effective.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1982)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal           Obligor           Type of Business          Loan  Investment  Total
1967     Societe Industrielle   Fertilizer Plant             2.45      1.01       3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)    BUD Senegal S. A.
1973)                              Vegetable Export          -         0.84       0.84
1976)
1974      SOFISEDIT                Development
Finance Company          -         0.24       0.24
1980      Banque de l'Habitat    Money and Capital
du Senegal, S.A.         Market                     -        0.47       0.47
1980      Societe Hoteliere
du Barachois, S.A.       Tourism                   3.00      -          3.00
1982      Industrie Chimique
du Senegal               Fertilizer               25.00                25.00
Total Gross Commitments                           30.45      2.56      33.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                               2.45      1.05       3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC                 28.00      1.51      29.51
Undisbursed Balance                               25.34      0.00      25.34



ANNEX II
- 31 -                             Page 3
B.   Projects in Execution l/
Cr. 530                Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 19, 1975: Effective April 22, 1975: Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
All construction has been completed and all equipment delivered. The
institutions financed under the project are operating satisfactorily. Govern-
ment has decided to reorient its policies on post-primary education, and is
considering alternative approaches to rural youth education; therefore, the
number of new rural youth education centers under the project will remain at
five, rather than 15 as envisaged earlier. The resulting cost reductions are
being used, following IDA approval, to build and equip a maintenance unit for
the science centers, and to complete the Merchant Marine School which now
needs the boarding facilities and supplementary training equipment eliminated
in 1979 to allow for rate exchange losses at that time. As the science and
technology education programs are being implemented satisfactorily, the
Government has requested that the Closing Date be postponed by one year to
allow for full disbursement of remaining Credit funds.
In. 1222               Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31,
1Q76: Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvest-
mient studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construc-
tion industry.  The pavement strengthening program has been completed   The
road maintenance program begun under the Second Highway Project and extended
under this project, is being continued under the Fourth Highway Project to
tstrengthen the maintenance organization and operations. As a result of
currency realignments and a civil works execution period that was shorter than
planned, about US$2.5 million became available under the loan; the Bank agreed
to use these funds to cover the foreign cost of extending technical assistance
lor road maintenance, improving workshops and training center buildings, and
procuring workshop and training equipment. Implementation of this is now
:Largely completed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                               ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. 633                Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit
of June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977 Closing
Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices, devel-
opment of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal health
services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel
financing is about 95% being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. The
Credit is 851 disbursed but fully committed. Construction of buildings and
wells is almost completed. The pastoral service established under the project
is successfully carrying out livestock extension services in the grazing
scheme area where 53 pastoral units have been created. A follow-up livestock
component has been prepared for inclusion in the Eastern Senegal Rural
Development Project now being prepared.
Ln. 1332               Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of
October 14, 1976: Effective April 21, 1977; Closi
Date: December 31, 1982.
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit for
industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a pilot scheme
for assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through SONEP1, the local
industrial promotion agency. The Loan is now fully committed, and almost 95%
disbursed.
Ln. 1405-T             Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of
June 7, 1977 Effective March 20, 1978: Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation subsequently became satisfactory. Civil
works have been completed. The quality of contractors, workmanship is good,
and the new quays are in use.   All the technical assistance services and
studies, including the study for a proposed container terminal, are progress-
ing satisfactorily. Overall performance of the Port Authority remains satis-
factory, but there are continuing problems with receivables, statistics, and
recruitment and retention of qualified staff   Port operations are still being
hampered by rigid customs regulations.
Ln. 1412-T             Petit Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5 6
Ln. 1413               Million Loans of June 7, 1977 as amended on May 12,
1980- Effective January 23, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common faci-
lities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area where
lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program of works
for renovation of Goree Island; and technical assistance and studies for long-
term financing for hotel construction at the site. Construction of infra-
structure works at the Sali site has been satisfactorily completed, and areas



- 33 -                               ANNEX II
Page 5
designated for hotel construction are ready for delivery. The first hotel
(Palm Beach) opened in December 1q80, and two other hotel projects are
expected to get underway by mid-1983. Hotel promotion to attract investors to
the Sali site is weak, and Government is seeking ways to improve this aspect
of the project. Port and street works for the Goree renovation were completed
in November 1981; however, progress has been slow in completing a package of
renovation works on the Hotel Relais de l'Espadon on Goree island.
Ln. 1518                Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17,
1978; Effective August 10, 1978' Closing Date:
f                                    December 31, 1983.
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, supply
of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies. Track
repair work between Kakar and Thies proceeded satisfactorily for about 12
months, but the quality of ballast procured by the Regie was found to be
poor. Because neither the Regie nor the Government were able to provide the
local funds needed for better quality ballast in FY81, track repair work was
halted, but resumed in late 1981, though at a much slower pace, when some
funds were provided by the Government. Work again came to a standstill for
about six months in early 1982, but re-started in August 1982. All locomotive
spare parts have been received, and locomotive rehabilitation works are now
completed. The training program is progressing satisfactorily. Consultants
have completed two phases of the study of the optimum structure and ownership
of the Senegal Railway (together with the connecting Mali Railway); the
Senegal Railway will be transformed into a Societe Nationale by end-1982.
Traffic stagnated during FY80 and most of FY81, but international freight has
reached substantially higher levels since early FY81 following establishment
of a cooperative management group with the Mali railway, and has increased by
a further 10% since July 1982.  The project is likely to be completed by late
1983, probably with a local cost overrun of about $2 million but with no over-
run on the foreign cost element.
Cr. 764                 Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3
Million Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Government organizations charged with strategic analysis, opera-
tional supervision, and formal financial control of the para-public sector,
and to upgrade the auditing, financial management, and accounting procedures
for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important public enter-
prises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical assistance have
been generally satisfactory (and in some cases exceptional), and over the
course of the project, performance of the agencies has improved substantial-
ly. Overall guidance and direction by Project Management was not very effec-
tive in the early phases of the project, but Government later took very
positive measures to remedy this situation. Training programs for government
administrators have been executed satisfactorily, with several intensive and



- 34 -                               ANNEX II
Page 6
specialized courses organized in 1980 and 1981. The audits of State enter-
prises have been extremely useful, and follow-up of audit recommendations by
the agencies has been good.
Cr. 775                Debi Lampsar Irrigation Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of about 2,760 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of re-
lated facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED; consult-
ing services for applied research and studies for future development of the
River Valley. Works on the IDA-financed Lampsar perimeter (2,023 ha) and on
the Debi perimeter (740 ha) financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement, have been satisfactorily completed.  Studies for future
development of the Senegal Valley are well advanced, and will be available in
time to permit appraisal of a proposed Irrigation IV project. This appraisal
could be scheduled in March 1983, depending on results of discussions on how
to relieve SAED's structural deficit.
Ln. 1665               Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of
April 18, 1979; Effective November 15, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of levelling and strengthening the main runway
and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, together
with the installation of navigation and visual approach aids at Ziguinchor and
Cap Skirring regional airports. Work at Dakar airport was satisfactorily
completed by the end of 1980. Equipment procurement is completed, and con-
tracts for civil works at Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring have been awarded. The
Bank has approved a Government request to use the available balance of the
loan to finance supplementary works selected from the investment plan. This
additional work, which includes rehabilitation of the terminal building and
runway night lighting system, is now underway.
Cr. S-23               Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Pro-
ject; US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective
August 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical studies
to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of
water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six regional
capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating
entities in the sector.  Feasibility, organizational and financial studies
have been carried out, and detailed engineering designs are well underway.
The proposed investment project was appraised in March 1982.



- 35 -                              ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. 908                Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of
May 23, 1979; Effective August 16, 1979: Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Three of the institutions created under the project, the Management
Institute (ESGE). the College of Agriculture (INDR), and the Technical Teacher
Training College (ENSET) have started to operate in temporary facilities.
Physical implementation of all components started after an average delay of
six months, but will be completed by end-1982. Equipment procurement is
progressing with only minor delays. Following a recent Government decision to
close boarding accommodations in all secondary schools, facilities at the
primary teacher training college in Kolda have been converted into classrooms
to accommodate a one-year auxiliary teacher training course. Also, because of
the large number of teachers to be trained at Kolda, construction of new
practice primary classrooms has become necessary. Overall, the project con-
tinues to be efficiently managed. The audit report for 1980/81 was produced
in June 1982, and the report for the next period is expected shortly.
Cr. 991                Small Rural Operations Project: US$11.0 million Credit
of April 2, 1980: Effective September 10, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project focuses on channelling funds and technical services to
small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing.   The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive acti-
vities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision for
a management structure. The project is progressing satisfactorily despite some
coordination problems. This is the first year of on-field implementation, and
the enthusiasm of farmer and producer groups augurs well for a good take-off.
Cr. 993                Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.0
Ln. 1810               million Credit of April 2, 1980! Effective December 9,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government's
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and pro-
gramming capacity, and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components:  (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government's soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in ioad main-
tenance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance
and strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about 200
km of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road (about
85 km) to two-lane, paved standards, financed in parallel by the Japanese
Government. Almost all procurement has been satisfactorily completed, and the
physical works, as well as consulting services for studies are well under-



- 36 -                                ANNEX II
Page 8
way.  The training component encountered difficulties with budget allocations
and recruitment of trainers in mid-1982, but these problems are expected to be
overcome during 1983.
Cr. S-26-SE            Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$3.3 million Credit of June 18, 1980' Effective
August 29, 1980: Closing Date: June 30 1984.
The major objective of the project is to help Government develop an
overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector- The reorganization
study has been completed, and legislation for creation of a national power
entity is being finalized.   Two technical advisors for general energy and
power sector planning have been provided to the Ministry of Industrial
Development. An overseas training program is underway for Senegalese offi-
cials responsible for energy planning. The project also includes audits, fi-
nancial and tariff studies, and feasibility studies for a headquarters
building for the new power entity and for the renovation and expansion of
distribution facilities. Project implementation is well underway.
Cr. 1061               Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Planning: SDR 4.1 million (US$5.3 million equivalent)
Credit of October 27, 1980; Effective January 9, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is aimed at supporting and strengthening the Government's
ability to identify, select and prepare, monitor execution of, and carry out
retrospective evaluations of its portfolio of development projects. The pro-
ject also aims at strengthening public debt monitoring, budgeting and fore-
casting capacity, and improving coordination between project needs and public
financing. Long-term consultants have been recruited and now well estab-
lished, and a number of studies have been selected for financing. The project
is being executed satisfactorily.
Ln. 1931-SE            Structural Adjustment Loan and Development Credit-
Cr. 1084-SE            US$30 million Loan and SDR 22.9 million (US$30 million
equivalent) Credit of January 26, 1981: Effective
March 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
US$40 million equivalent of the Loan/Credit proceeds have been made
available to the Senegalese Government to help finance its medium term eco-
nomic stabilization and rehabilitation program. A progress report on the exe-
cution of the first tranche is being prepared by the Government.  Counterpart
funds are being used principally in the agriculture sector for reorganization
of the rural development agencies, for which prospects are mixed: the agen-
cies responsible for Irrigation and cotton development have prepared accept-
able short-term programs, but rainfed crop agencies cannot prepare acceptable
programs until Government policies on farmer participation, input supply and
pricing, credit, and marketing, have substantially improved. About US$1.0
million equivalent is being used for consultant studies.



_ 37 -                              ANNEX II
Page 9
C!r. 1103-SE           Forestry Project; SDR 7.3 million (US$9.3 million
equivalent) Credit of March 11, 1981: Effective July 1,
1982: Closing Date:  December 31, 1986.
The project aims at meeting the steadily increasing demand for fuel-
wood and forest products in the urban center of Dakar and in rural areas of
the heavily populated Groundnut Basin, where rapid population growth is
resulting in serious deforestation.  Project implementation is now underway.
Ln. 1973-SE            Investment Promotion Project:   US$6.5 million Loan and
Cr. 1136-SE            SDR 2.1 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) Credit of
July 17, 1981; Effective February 11, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
The project aims at promoting productive investments in Senegal by:
(i) reinforcing SOFISEDIT, both financially and institutionally; (ii) pro-
viding loan and equity finance for viable subprojects; (iii) improving the
efficiency of SONEPI, the local industrial promotion agency: and (iv) stream-
lining the investment approval process. Although project implementation is
Estill at an early stage, commitments under the line of credit have been
progressing quite rapidly.  Little progress has been made, however, in revers-
ing the deterioration of SOFISEDIT's financial position, and the company's
portfolio continues to be plagued by a high level of arrears. SOFISEDIT's
Management and Board are now formulating a program to reverse this trend, and
also to improve administrative and operational efficiency of the institution.
Ln. 2025-SE            SEFICS Rail Transport Project:  US$19.3 million Loan of
September 30, 1981; Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project aims at creating SEFICS, an operating subsidiary of the
parent fertilizer producing company called ICS, for providing and managing
rail transport services needed by ICS. SEFICS will operate the ICS trains on
Senegal railways. main line tracks after paying a track user charge.
Cr, 1176-SE            Agricultural Research Project:  SDR 17 million (US$19.5
million equivalent) of March 12, 1982; not yet
effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The project aims at reorganizing and decentralizing the national
agricultural research effort by making it more adapted to small farmer
needs. Under the project the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute
(ISRA) would be reinforced to carry out (i) 5 production systems research
programs in Senegal's major agro-ecological zones, and (ii) six nationally
coordinated multidisciplinary commodity programs on groundnuts, millet,
siorghum, maize, rice, and cowpeas.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.  Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project:                  30 Months
(b) Project prepared by:                            Consultants
(c) Identification mission:                         April 1979
(d) Appraisal mission:                              November 1981
(e) Negotiations:                                   December 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                  April 1983
II.  Special IDA Implementation Action:
Two advances under the Project Preparation Facility were granted to the
Government (the first of US$200,000 in January 1980 and the second of
US$800,000 in March 1981).
III. Special Conditions
(a) PETROSEN has agreed to reassess its staffing needs periodically
in consultation with IDA (para. 40);
(b) PETROSEN has agreed, before undertaking any investment
in excess of US$300,000 equivalent, or investments in any year
exceeding in the aggregate US$1 million, to provide IDA with
evidence that such investments are technically, economically
and financially justified (see para 40):
(c) The Government has agreed to maintain BNDS and SOFISEDIT's
representation in PETROSEN's Board of Directors unless IDA
otherwise agrees (para. 40);



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The Government has agreed to consult with IDA on any proposed
changes in the petroleum legislation and PETROSEN's legal status to
be implemented as a result of the legal studies included in
the project (see para. 41):
(e) Credit disbursements against the second phase of seismic works
in Diam Niadio would be subject to the conclusion of an
agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between the Government/PETROSEN
and SNEA for the exploration/development of the Diam Niadio
area and presentation to IDA of satisfactory justification and
of a detailed work program (see para- 59);
(f) Credit disbursements against the integrated basin-wide regional
studies would be subject to the availability of proper geo-
logical and geophysical data and to the completion of
arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, for implementation of these
studies, between Senegal, The Gambia, and Guinea-Bissau, on the
one hand, and between Senegal and Mauritania, on the other (see
para. 59);
(g) The Government has agreed to contribute an aggregate amount of
at least US$1.5 million equivalent towards the cost of the
project (US$750,000 in 1983, US$485,000 in 1984 and US$265,000
in 1985); the respective amounts should be made available to
PETROSEN at the beginning of each calendar year (see para. 54):
and
(h) PETROSEN's financial statements would be audited yearly by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA (see para. 60).



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
SENEGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Tentative Schedule of Implementation
Review of Diam Niadio exploration program                   January 1983
Hiring of Sr. Explorationist (expatriate)
by PETROSEN                                              January 1aRR3
Final drafts of New Petroleum Code and model
contract(s)                                              February 1983
Completion of Gravimetric and Magnetic Survey
in Diam Niadio                                           March 1983
Seismic survey in Casamance offshore                        March 1983
Completion of semi-detailed seismic survey
in Diam Niadio                                           August 1983
Submission of new Petroleum Code
to National Assembly                                     August 1983
Start of promotion of areas relinquished
by Husky and Ocelot                                      August 1983
Detailed seismic survey in Diam Niadio                      late 1983
Start of promotion of area relinquished by SNEA             January 1984
Drilling in Casamance offshore                              1984 (tentat.)
Completion of basin studies                                 June 1985



- 41 -
ANNEX V
page 1 of 5
SENEGAL
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Petroleum Exploration History and Current Status
1.       Senegal's edimentary basins cover a total surface of 17g,000 km2
of which 110,000 km are prospective for hydrocarbons: 70,000 km onsh re,
23,000 km2 in the shallow offshore (0-200 m water depth), and 20,000 km in
the deep offshore (200-2,000 m water depth). Petroleum exploration started
in 1954. About 30,000 km of seismic lines have been shot and over 140
wells drilled. Although past exploration activities have been more
intensive in Senegal than in other parts of West Africa, the country's
petroleum potential has yet to be established. Only 30 to 40 wells can be
considered significant from an exploration point of view, which is a small
amount for such a large area. As proven by the Diam Nadio and Dome Flore
deposits, petroleum has been generated and has accumulated. Future
exploration should be focused on subtle traps such as flanks of salt domes
and stratigraphic traps to which modern seismic methods are well adapted.
The major discoveries made recently in the offshore of West Africa in
countries where exploration had been unsuccessful during the previous 15
years demonstrate the greater effectiveness of such modern seismic
technology.
Geological Setting
2.       The Senegal-Mauritania basin has a general monoclinal structure
with the sedimentary sequence dipping at a few degrees in a general
westerly direction. Pre-existing basement trends were responsible for the
inception of the basin in the Jurassic Period and have since controlled its
structural development. The basin was formed by post-Hercynian continental
foundering of northwest Africa as it separated from North America during
the initial phases of the opening of the Atlantic Ocean. The Hercynian
orogeny was the last phase of crustal compression in Mauritania and
Senegal. It gave rise to the Mauritanides Chain, which form the basin rim
in the northeast and east. To the north and southeast, the basin is
bordered by outcrops of the Precambrian basement of Africa, and the
southern rim of the basin is marked by the Lower Paleozoic sedimentary
outcrops of Guinea-Bissau. The Mesozoic-Tertiary cover of the Senegal-
Mauritania basin has been weakly folded into gentle linear undulations and
several domes.  The linear structures are related to vertical movements in
the underlying basement, while the domes are thought to be due to deep-
seated batholithic activity. Gravity and magnetic surveys have confirmed
the volcanic origin of these circular structures; and in the case of the
Leona dome, basic intrusive rocks have been encountered in drilling. At
Cap Vert, (Dakar), there is an emergent dome of Recent age.



- 42 -
ANNEX V
page 2 of 5
3.       Seismic reflection surveys in 1964 revealed a number of salt domes
in the offshore Casamance area. The presence of salt domes was later
confirmed by gravity surveys and shallow core hole wells. More recently,
petroleum exploration work has proved the existence of a salt basin below
the continental shelf off southern Senegal. The domes vary from 4.5 to
8 km (3-5 miles) across and often occur c'ose together- They have caused
the development of considerable structural closure in surrounding and
overlying beds. The more southerly salt domes ceased growing towards the
end of the Cretaceous Period, while other diapirs continued to rise
throughout Mesozoic and Tertiary times and their cap rocks now suberop on
the seafloor. Palynological analysis of the salt has dated it as late
Triassic to early Jurassic.
4.       Along the southern margin of the Senegal-Mauritania basin, there
are outcrops of folded Infracambrian and Lower Paleozoic sedimentary rocks
reaching a thickness of about 1,500 m (5,000 ft). The rocks consist of
tillites, fine to coarse grained clastics, shales, and some carbonates.
They terminate with an incomplete Devonian section of sandstones and
shales. West of 14 degrees W, these Paleozoic rocks disappear beneath the
MKesozoic-Tertiary cover of the Senegal-Mauritania basin, where little is
known of their lithology or structure. Further west, no Paleozoic
sediments have been encountered in wells. indicating that they have been
completely eroded or were never deposited. The Senegal-Mauritania coastal
basin began to subside after the last paroxysms of the Hercynian orogeny.
As the consequence of this subsidence, the Paleozoic and basement complexes
of Mauritania and Senegal acquired a thick marine Mesozoic and Tertiary
cover, the thickness of which rapidly increases from the east to the
west. In the coastal area, the sedimentary series reaches a thickness of
3,500-5,500 m (12,000-18,000 ft), which increases to 9,000-12,000 m
(30,000-40,000 ft) at the edge of the continental shelf.
5.       The lack of success, to date, in discovering commercial
hydrocarbon accumulations in the Senegal-Mauritania basin is
disappointing. This is particularly so in view of its thick sedimentary
fill and the presence of closely associated potential source-reservoir
cover rocks within the Cretaceous section. The frequent subsurface oil and
gas indications throughout the basin leave no doubt that regional
generation and migration of hydrocarbons have taken place. Failure to
discover commercial petroleum deposits primarily seems to be due to a
general apparent lack of trapping opportunities.  This is precisely an area
where use of modern and more precise seismic equipment, combined with good
geologic interpretations, could lead to attractive prospects in more subtle
traps (deltaic or channel type of deposition, growth faulting, and flanks
of the salt domes) since, with the exception of the regions affected by
salt dome activity or lacolithic rise, the degree of folding appears
insufficient to provide adequate closure for the entrapment of
hydrocarbons. Near coastal and offshore areas in Senegal probably offer
the best prospects, and most of the indications discussed above have been
encountered in the regions.



- 43 -
ANNEX V
page 3 of 5
6.       The southern half of the salt dome region is the most attractive
acreage, as it seems to have the favourable parameters, namely, adequate
structural closure, and large thicknesses of porous reservoir-type rocks.
In addition to these, the area seems to be situated in a zone of
significant north-south lithofacies change.  Other favourable areas include
offshore acreages around St Louis, northern Senegal, and Cape Vert south
of Dakar. The key exploration objective in the Senegal-Mauritania basin is
the UJpper Cretaceous sandstone series.  Secondary objectives are the
overlying Neogene and the underlying Lower Cretaceous and Jurassic
sediments.
Petroleum Exploration
7        Practically the wnole sedimentary area of Senegal was covered,
until recently, by exploration permits. The only area currently not under
contract is an area offshore Casamance (14,000 km2) which was relinquished
by Chevron in October 1981. The current permit holders are as follows:
Area                           First
Company              Location      (sq. km)  Award Date  'Relinquishment due (50%)
Husky Oil (Canada)       Offshore
(deep and shallow)          18,700    06/27/78 1'          06/26/83
Ocelot (Canada)   Offshore
(mostly shallow)             4,194       1978         06/83
SNEA (France)      Mostly onshore       73,000    01/09/79        01/08/84
Exploration activity in these permit locations has been very slow,
consisting mostly of some seismic and airmag surveys. A deep wel'l drilled
by SNEA at Kafountin (onshore in Casamance) was completed in September 1982
without success.
The Dome Flore Area
8.       The Dome Flore, a salt dome with two culminations, is located 60
km offshore Casamance in the southwest corner of Senegal in water depths of
40/60 m (see attached map). It was explored between 1968 and 1971 by
COPETAO, an association between Compagnie Francaise de-s Petroles (CFP) and
Texas Gulf Sulphur, which carried out gravity and seismic surveys and
drilled seven wells on the top of the dome. As those wells were primarily
17  Originally to Keimer Fox TIfSA), later farmed out to Husky Oil in April
1979.
2/ Originally to Labow (USA), later farmed out to Ocelot in early-1982.



- 44 -
ANNEX V
page 4 of 5
for sulphur, they were drilled in large diameters and not properly tested
for hydrocarbons; also, the logs are often of bad quality and difficult to
interpret. These wells discovered a heavy oil deposit in the northeast
culmination and light oil shows in the southwest culmination of the dome.
The heavy oil (9.1 to 9.6 degrees API) reserves are estimated at 70 million
tons, but their development was judged uneconomical by COPETAO because of
their location offshore and the low viscosity of the oil; recent studies,
made in 1980, confirmed that assessment. The light oil (33 degrees APT)
shows were found in the Paleocene carbonates and in the Maestrichtian
sands! one of the wells actually produced light oil and gas(2 m3) during a
test. COPETAO estimated the light oil reserves at less than 200,000 tons
and concluded that it would be uneconomical to develop the field
The permit for the Dome Flore area (about 250 km2) was relinquished in 1976
and has been kept by the Government since then.
9.       Under financing from two PPF advances made by the Bank, the
Government hired exploration consultants (Georex, France) in 1979, to carry
out a comprehensive reinferpretation of the existing information on the
Dome Flore and supervise a detailed seismic survey of the area. Georex's
findings, issued in 1981, concluded at the existence of a possible light
oil field with recoverable reserves estimated at 2.0 million tons in the
most probable case. TWith the assistance of ARL (Portugal), also under PPF
financing, PETROSEN has promoted the area to foreign oil companies and
requested from them proposals to enter into a joint venture for
exploration/development of the area (chapter III, para. 47).
The Diam Niadio/Dakar Peninsula Area
10.      Past exploration.  The prospective area, which extends onshore
east of the Dakar peninsula (west of the 17 meridian and north of the 15
parallel; see Map), covers about 2,000 sq km. A total of 47 wells has been
mostly in the late 50s and early 60s in this area, a large number of them
relatively shallow (1,000 - 1,800 m), mostly in the upper Cretaceous
terrain. A few wells, however, were drilled deeper (betweern 3,500 and more
than 4,000 m) in lower Cretaceous and upper most Jurassic zones. Although
numerous oil and gas shows were encountered, only one marginally commercial
oil discovery was made in 1960. A 60 BPD production of 34-370 API oil was
established in Maestrichtian sands in the Diam Niado structure. Production
decreased rapidly and was abandoned in 1962 with a total of 34,000 bbl
produced- very little information is available on the production
techniques. Depth of the sands is around 800 m with a thickness of 10/30
meters. Also a small production of gas was found on the Cap Vert
Peninsula, in Maestrichtian, at a depth of 1,300 m. The initial flow was
1,425 MCFD and the well has been producing enough gas since 1980 to feed a
small gas turbine.
11.      Geological setting.  Except locally, regional subsidence and
marine sedimentation prevailed throughout the Upper Cretaceous area,
gradually replaced to the east by a littoral neritic Calcareous sandy
facies. The area of the Dakar Peninsula, and particularly a large fault in
the Dakar area, seems to coincide with the boundary between Maestrichtian



- 45 -
ANNEX V
page 5 of 5
sands and deeper water silts and shale. In the area of Diam Niado, the
Maestrichtian sands seem to be deposited in a near shore and regressive
environment, with possibilities of channels or sand bars. The Upper
Cretaceous basinal shale facies are considered potential petroleum source
rocks and the Maestrichtian sandstones are the most likely hydrocarbon
reservoirs. They can be expected at depths from 600 to 1,500 m and their
gross thickness ranges approximately from 15 to 300 meters. Uplift and
erosion followed Cretaceous sedimentation and preceded the deposition of
Eocene and Oligocene marly and sandy limestones that grade offshore to
marls and planctonic shales   A succeeding early Miocene regression occured
as evidenced by lignitic clays, sands and gravels. The last major marine
transgression is reflected on the middle Miocene neritic limestone. The
overlying Miocene-Pliocene regressive sediments consist of multi-colored
clays and thin lenticular sands   Horst and graben type vertical block
faulting predominate in the Dakar peninsula area, decreasing in amplitude
in the upper part of Cretaceous zone. Evidence has been found of late
Tertiary volcanic activity. The existing old seismic data does not allow
any detailed structural or statigraphic interpretation. However, it
appears that the faulting has probably played a role in the deposition of
shallow Maestrichtian sands-






-v  y,  1~~~~fAA                                        M ~~A  U  R I T A  N  I A                         
iP~4   t3'1                                                                                "-'~\                                                                              SENEGAL AND  GA MBIA
A-%~~~~,'  ~~~t~~rh  ~~~fet~~~'         / ~~PETROLEUM   EXPLORATION
/                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Perits
<2                         ./ 4f,                                                                                               8 5A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qtA ooodeo SAA,g 1980
0 t r y~~~;5~                       ;        i               ,                              T9 =Lo,                                                                                               R,grtCF  -rolnoe  or 091980          0
_1A             15'          1                                                                                                                                                R,.!|i'inqu,soRo d-g 1808
. ,t0"   U  ili !A~rP~f9>  iW  I ;ymbols
t                         API~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                        r  h
*      We I 5poded d-A ng peP 0d uSdSA yes Ow
,;j"-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 000m]                                                                                          -4- Lgee.    Abondoned
po4                                         -4-:A ;                       XU1,5e     's   b +,,,S                             +      Coomp etoo wel s. tcitus unknown
I, ToPAAsAAA  Al ,                                                                    .935,,                                                *     T-.tul    I de th n  l- .-
t                     PAU  +     gThi stl         S      E     N     E    G      A      L                       G k4
D4FARk   -  -           PAAA3                 Doouroo]
t               ,i4.sts 3                                                                              A,,
It u ) g i j>B55^ il +   '                                                                                    l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K   o
-   , .                                                   O*>>at  nA N JuL T   H   E.  G  A   M   , I  A
I..                                -                                                                                                                                        ..r-...
,   ,'-NA                                                                                                                                                A  I I T I 1.
w~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~,E]t ,. .onhu]                                                                                                                                     A AAPTA   A,-'7r:  1.7 7'A-bi3,X       AD A IC. ' 
D 357 1 7 b [ / +unV s \ LEtm~~~~A ,                                                                                ,~..--AN- _z  
ILJ~~~~~~~~ 
AA4___          / . Ur  H IhE~    I+G A        B           I S S A  U- -.                  .                       -
.. - ,,: . .............. ,/ _j-- ... <. 1WyJ1Fout} -,ijr7ve iC 'LIBASAASP                                                  tC                                                                 A
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-                                                                  - / 1' __Ar                                   -i      i                            0_         m     _ _
AAo;P.ootAt                    - -  - -                                        BAA              I                           A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
A-o   ~~                'DO   A- 7E
AS                                                      AAAA   .         0 AA                                                                                     -kBAr7--0--~J  7. 



