Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-4184-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
FROFOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$33.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
November 1, 1985
This document hs a restricted dIstbutIo ad may be wed bY recipiens o0y in the Performsne Of
their onhad dute  lb contents may am otherwise be diskised withot Word Bak authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September 1985)
Currency Unit   =   Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00         =   Rp 1,100
Rp 1 million        US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)         =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 mile
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq m)  =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)   =  35.31 cubic feet
= 1.308 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg)        =  2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAETE         -    Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
AARD          -    Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
ADAB          -    Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB           -    Asian Development Bank
AOP           -    AnnuaL Operating Plan
Bangda        -    Directorate General of Regional Development
BAPPEDA       -    Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS      -    National Development Planning Agency
BRI           -    Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Cipta Karya   -    Directorate General of Human Settlements
DGE           -    Directorate General of Estates
DGH           -    Directorate General of Highways
DGLS          -    Directorate General of Livestock Services
EIIU          -    Eastern Islands Implementation Unit
GOI           -    Government of Indonesia
NTB           -    Nusa Tenggara Barat (West Nusa Tenggara)
NTT           -    Nusa Tenggara Timur (East Nusa Tenggara)
OPE           -    Office of Project Execution (UNDP)
PCU           -    Project Coordinating Unit
PMU           -    Project Management Unit
PPIPD         -    The UNDP's Project for Regional Planning and Preparation of
Investment Oriented Projects
PTP           -    Limited Liability, State Owned Enterprise
REPELITA      -    National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84; Repelita IV,
1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94).
SOE           -    Statements of Expenditure
TOR           -    Terms of Reference
USAID         -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia.
Loan Amount:           US$33.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The proposed project would be the first stage of a
longer-range agricultural development program in two of
Indonesia's poorest provinces: Nusa Tenggara Barat
(NTB) and Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT). The proposed
project would provide funds to sectoral agencies for
farming systems research, pilot cotton development,
cattle development, and national and provincial road
improvement in NTT; and it would channel funds to the
provinces for agricultural activities complemerting sec-
toral programs and for two small pilot area development
components. Research and road improvement would lay the
foundation for increased agricuLtural production, and
pilot components would test new technologies and new
organizational arrangements for supporting agricultural
development.  A component, cost-shared with UNDP and
executed by their Office of Project Execution, would
identify investment options in Southeast Sulawesi and
Irian Jaya and provide technical assistance to che
provinces. Technical assistance for agricultural
development components would be provided under grant
from the Australian Development Assistance Bureau
(ADAB), and selected rural roads in NTB would be
improved under a roads project assisted by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB).
Risks:                 Technical risks associated with cotton development and
organizational risks associated with the use of the
provinces to identify and implement some components are
minimized by limiting these components to three-year
pilot projects and by providing technical support on a
grant basis in order to permit timely deployment of
consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance or 
their ofrcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                      Local      Foreign    Total
~~ (US$ million) --
Agricultural research                          3.3         2.6       5.9
Cotton development                             1.1        0.8        1.9
Cattle development                             7.8        1.3        9.1
Road improvement                               5.1         7.8      12.9
Agricultural support and area development    9.6           2.5      12.1
Regional investmpnt studies and imple-         2.5         4.4       6.9
mentation support
Total Baseline Costs                       29.4       19.4       48.8
Physical contingencies                         0.6        0.6        1.2
Price contingencies                            6.2        2.8        9.0
Total Project Cost /a                      36.2       22.8       59.0
Financing Plan:                                       Local      Foreign   Total
~~ (US$ million) -
IBRD                              16.9        16.1      33.0
ADAB                                 -         2.8        2.8
UNDP                               0.9         2.5        3.4
ADB                                  -         0.6        0.6
0OI                               18.4         0.8       19.2
Total                           36.2        22.8      59.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY        1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
-       -       -    (US$ million)
Annual           0.3    1.0    2.7    5.0    6.0    8.0    7.0    3.0
Cumulative      0.3    1.3    4.0    9.0   15.0   23.0   30.0   33.0
Economic Rate of Return: 18% for cattle development, 24% for road improvement
(covering 402 of project costs)
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5786-IND, dated November 1, 1985.
map:      ID  No. 19000.
/a Includes taxes estimated at US$2.4 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$33.0 million to help
finance the Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth and Employment" (No. 5597-IND
dated Apri' 23, 1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30,
1985. A1nnex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1Z p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mireral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural comoudity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP r r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Cattle Development Project (No. P-4155-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-306 dated October 3, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors on
October 22, 1985.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade.  This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
che period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil.  Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has aLso helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4Z p.a. over the
past decade, and led to the recent achievement of self-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14%
p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the coun-
try's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis for
longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public reve-
nues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28Z devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d)  a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and



(f) an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, including simplification of investment approval proce-
dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. GDP, led by strong performance in
the oil (including LNG and refining) and agriculture sectors, rose by an esti-
mated 4.7Z in 1983 and 6.5Z in 1984. The balance of payments situation is
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$1.9 billion (2.4%
of GNP) in 1984/85. The major factors responsible for this improvement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovery in the
industrial countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oil
exports. The Government's restraint is also evident in the budget, where real
expenditures have probably fallen over the past three years. This fiscal dis-
cipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12% in 1983 and
9% in 1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devalua-
tion and the petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5% p.a. is pro-
bably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and pov-
erty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth
rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of
the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the
economy will require continued action in three key policy areas: management
of the public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy
environment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade
regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announced simplifications in investment approval
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.



- 4 -
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable pro-
vided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist mea-
sures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and exchange
rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of export promo-
tion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready access to
finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing capacity.
However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for comprehen-
sive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has histori-
cally been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. In March 1985, the Government announced a major reduction in
the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions -
including increased use of import quotas/bans and regulations requiring higher
local content in production - have served to promote some potentially costly
and uneconomic investments which could prove counter productive to the export
drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the Longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a capi-
tal market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas) and
selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with increased
bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
al increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other



- 5 -
Islands, of whom some 675,000 were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural non-agricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the Limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3% p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market is not expected
to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there is a serious risk of
stagnant or declining labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
emplovment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-farm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in tile medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.



-6-
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35Z. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a sub-
stantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education wilL be neces-
sary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system. In
the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably at
the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement in quality
will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemen-
ted by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in
indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be maintained. By
1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population had access to safe
water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75Z, respectively, for
1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the Gov-
ernment's modest growth targets (5Z p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additional US$14.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24X; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at 16
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%.  However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over thr past
three years, the ratio rose to 25% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30Z in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 221 by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 31
17.       As of September 30, L985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling US$910.08 million (less cancellations) and 101 Bank loans amounting
to US$7,859.57 milLion (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled
US$163.2 million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of September 30, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was
13.11, and the share of debt service, 10.32 compared with 13.32 and 7.9X,
respectively, in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was
made through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following
the commodity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's
lending in the remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest
amount of IDA lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per
capita GNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued
in FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bani' Group-assisted projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and
credits have been extended to vircually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, industrial development financing (including small-scale
industry), power, telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical
assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III
(1979-84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high
growth and stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special
emphasis on more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This
focus, which was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic
report, required greater attention to employment generation (particularly in
the industrial sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While
Bank lending was already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis
has been given to these priorities. However, the adverse economic develop-
nents that occurred in the latter half of the plan period and the measures
taken to address them, led to a reshaping of development objectives for
Repelita IV (1984-89). These emphasize restoring growth of incomes and
employment while continuing financial prudence, promoting structural change
toward a more diversified economy, and maintaining efforts to improve income
distribution and alleviate poverty. This shift in focus has underscored the
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Cattle Development Project (No. P-4155-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-306 dated October 3, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors on
October 22, 1985.



need to follow through on reforms that have already been initiated, seek
increased efficiencies in the economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance
needed investments and recurrent expenditures, and foster a policy environment
conducive to the achievement of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs. The approach is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on
economic policy that has been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with
the Government for many years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic
issues with advice on institutional and policy reform in important sectors and
subsectors, coupled with lending operations and technical assistance that meet
priority needs and support institutional improvements in specific areas.
Emphasis in economic work is being given to trade and industrial issues,
development of the financial system, and public resource management. In the
lending program, agriculture continues to receive the most attention. How-
ever, the program is broadly based, and includes increasing emphasis on educa-
cion and human resource development. Continued attention is being given to
power and energy, where the Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify
Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In
transportation, the Bank is focussing on efficiency improvements in the mari-
time sector and on improving the national network of highways and rural
roads. In urban development and water supply, lending is being directed more
and more to developing innovative low-cost solutions, providing for cost
recovery and strengthening local institutions, in order to minimize demands on
the Government budget and decentralize the responsibility for addressing basic
needs. In all, the Bank's lending program is intended to contribute about 20%
of Indonesia's external capital requirements during the next three years and
is expected to be an important catalyst in attracting other funds. Where pos-
sible, we are seeking also to widen the impact of Bank lending through techni-
cal assistance, as well as complementary investments and coordinated policy
dialogue with other donors. This is especially true in our lending programs
for power, urban development, water supply and transportation.
20.       There has been a improvement in the last few years in the disburse-
ment ratio 4 from a low of 13% in FY80 to over 17% in FY85. The poor FY80
ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments
during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122Z compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps hzve been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues.  Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for s.mplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective mea-
sures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979, November
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed imount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the Govern-
ment has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and finan-
cial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order to
reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficulties,
many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a later
stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of all of these activities
are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in FY79 to
US$728 million in FY85. It is nevertheless clear that continued efforts to
improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are required, as
Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-wide aver-
age. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the Govern-
ment in a special effort to identify problems in the construction industry
with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies, as weak-
nesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of the
major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also under-
way to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the procurement
process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition procedures.
It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote continued attention
to these and other aspects of project implementation in the coming year, in
order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the Government's invest-
ments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
The Agricultural Sector
21.       The GOI's major objectives for the agricultural sector are to:  (a)
create productive employment to raise incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase
domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural
exports, particularly of tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable
use of Indonesia's varied land, water and other natural resources.
22.       GOI has traditionally concentrated on increasing the production of
rice, the preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Estima-
ted 1984 production was 25.5 million tons and it is expected that a large
measure of self-sufficiency can now be sustained. Over the past decade, the
output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts and sweet
potatoes) grew more slowly, at an average of only 1.6% p.a. Yield improvement
of these crops through intensified research and support services, and expan-
sion of the harvested area, would serve many of the poorest parts of Java and
the eastern islands which are too dry for rice as a major crop.
23.       The GOI has also encouraged cotton production in eastern Indonesia
for import substitution purposes. About 2% of Indonesia's cotton requirements
are met by local production and the last ten years have seen a fourfold growth
in cotton imports. In 1983, the country imported about 110,000 tons of cotton
lint at a cost of about US$173 million, which placed a considerable demand on
foreign exchange. In 1983/84, about 30,000 ha were planted to cotton, primar-
ily in East Java, South and Southeast Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara; however,
yields to date have been low.



- 10 -
24.       There are some 8.3 million cattle and 2.5 million buffalo in
Indonesia which are kept by smallholders primarily as a source of draft power
and manure, and secondarily as a capital reserve and source of cash income.
About 70X of all land cultivated for food crops is prepared by cattle or
buffalo power, the other 30% by hand labor. Mechanization is discouraged on
employment grounds, and is still negligible. The herd offtake, about 12%
nationally, supplies an accelerating demand for meat, especially on Java where
cattle slaughter has increased by about 3% p.a. over the last 10 years. Java,
Sulawesi and the Nusa Tenggaras account for 6.7 million head, or 80% of the
national herd.
25.       Bank Group Experience in Agriculture.  The Bank Group has supported
GOI's objectives for the sector through 22 irrigation and swamp reclamation
projects, ten projects in estate and smallholder tree crops, five projects in
transmigration, plus projects in fertilizer production and distribution, live-
stock, fisheries, research, extension, training, seeds, upland farming, area
development, resource surveying and mapping. These projects have had a signi-
ficant impact on production and incomes in Java and Sumatra, the most populous
and productive of the islands; but they have had little impact in reducing
poverty or production constraints in Indonesia's drier eastern islands.
26.       While Bank agricultural lending has assisted a wide range of activi-
ties in Indonesia, most attention has been given to irrigation, the nucleus
estate tree crops program and transmigration in response to GOI's priorities
for agricultural development. The Bank is exploring ways to increase support
to other agricultural development opportunities, including (a) increasing non-
oil exports, including rubber, forest products and fish; and (b) expanding the
output of non-rice food crops, especially under rainfed conditions; (c) multi-
purpose water resource development (for domestic, industrial, food protection,
energy generation and irrigation purposes); and (d) multi-sectoral rural
development targetted at the least developed areas of the Other Islands.
Rural and Regional Development
27.       Recognizing the divergence between provinces, GOI has placed
increasing emphasis on regional development programs in the last decade. Pro-
vincial Planning Agencies (BAPPEDAs) were set up in 1974, extended to the dis-
tricts in 1979, and given the authority to coordinate sectoral and provincial
activities. Regional development studies were commissioned on most areas of
Indonesia in the 1970s and funds flowing from the national government to
cities and provinces were steadily increased. In 1984/85 these funds amounted
to 13Z of the development budget, the third largest item of expenditure. To
coordinate the flow of funds, a division was created in the National Develop-
ment Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) specifically for regional development and a
new Directorate General of Regional Development (Bangda) was created in the
Department of Home Affairs in 1981.
28.       Bank Experience in Regional Development.  The Bank has supported
GOI's focus on regional development through transmigration, irrigation, rural
works and other projects, and it completed a sector report, Selected Aspects
of Spatial Development (Report 4776-IND, November 1, 1984), which reviews
regional statistics on population, migration, employment and public finance;



- 11 -
and lays a foundation for understanding regional differences and development
prospects. An Annex on the evolution of regional development planning in
Indonesia focuses on the case of Nusa Tenggara Barat and makes recommendations
that have been considered in the design of the proposed project. The Bank is
also assisting two regional development projects and one rural roads project
which directly channel funds to the local governments for project
implementation:
(a) The Yogyakarta Rural Development Project (Cr. 946-IND, 1979) aims to
strengthen the capacity of the provincial government to implement
area development programs in two of its poorest districts. A recent
review of this project indicated that targets for most components
have been met or exceeded, but disbursements were low due to the
introduction of cost-saving measures, the failure of a few compo-
nents outside the agricultural sector, and overestimated contingency
costs; however, successful activities have been expanded in the Last
two project years. Lessons were learned about the importance of
establishing appropriate management systems and appointing key
project staff at the outset of project implementation, and about
coordinating regional development activities.
(b) The Rural Roads Development Project (Ln. 2083-IND, 1982) is intended
to finance a three-year time-slice of GOI's rural roads program in
25 districts and to provide equipment, technical support, monitoring
and evaluation. Since project funds flow to the district govern-
ments for road improvements, the secretariat for this project is
located in Bangda rather than the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH) in the Ministry of Public Works. Progress to date has been
slow. Weaknesses in the Bangda directorate responsible for project
implementation have led to management difficulties and problems of
quality control. To resolve these problems, the secretariat has
recently been strengthened by inclusion of representatives from the
DGH and BAPPENAS, and the program has been extended by one year.
Experience to date has highlighted the importance of gradually
strengthening implementation capacity, and of striking an
appropriate balance between central and local government roles.
(c) The most recent regional development project, Upland Agriculture and
Conservation Project (Ln. 2474-IND, 1984), is intended to increase
the incomes of farmers in critical watersheds in East and Central
Java and to promote resource conservation. Responsibility for proj-
ect implementation lies with district governments and their local
line agencies, and project coordination is provided by the BAPPEDAs.
It is still too early to evaluate these arrangements, but lessons
learned from earlier projects have been taken into account in proj-
ect design.
Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB) and Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT)
29.       NTB and NTT are the easterumost provinces in the chain of islands
stretching from Sumatra toward Australia's north coast. Together these prov-
inces have 5.8 million people, 3.5Z of Indonesia's population, and cover about



- 12 -
68,000 km2, 3.6% of Indonesia's land. The area is noted for its marked varia-
tion in climate, soils, topography, land availability and agricultural poten-
tial; but in general, it is the driest region in Indonesia and NTT and NTB are
two of the nation's poorest provinces. Per capita income is less than 50% of
the national average and consumption levels are the lowest in the country.
30.       The Agricultural Sector.  Agriculture contributes about 601 to the
gross regional product of NTT/NTB, and employs 851 of the working age members
of the population. Due to unfavorable topography and soils, only about 30% of
available land in the region is arabLe and only 5% of the area has a reliable
5-6 month growing season. Population pressures in some areas result in small,
uneconomic farm units, but in other areas land is undeveloped due to lack of
access, land tenure problems, and the limited resources available for land
surveys and titling.
31.       In NTB the major wet season crop is paddy, and in NTT it is corn.
Average yields are low and input use on rainfed crops is restricted. In 1983
the cattle population of NTB and NTT was estimated at 253,000 and 466,000
head, respectively, but the distribution is uneven, and the majority of
smallholders do not own cattle. In general, agricultural production is
constrained by dry climate, difficult topography, land tenure arrangements,
inadequate information about technical packages suited to agriculture in the
area, difficulties in obtaining agricultural inputs and the absence of cash
crops with-reasonable marketing potential. Marketing is hampered, in turn, by
transport problems, both within and between provinces. Trained manpower is
scarce and concentrated in district and provincial capitals. Implementing
institutions are relatively weak and in many cases responsible for the
implementation of national programs not well suited to these drier provinces.
32.       In spite of these problems a number of opportunities exist for
increasing incomes and production. Climatic factors in the project areas
favor livestock production, particularly in NTT, and the region has tradition-
ally acted as a supply area for both slaughter animals and breeding stock.
Government policy is to build on this comparative advantage and increase the
quality and quantity of the breeding herd in order to increase farmer incomes
and ensure a lnng-term supply of cattle and livestock products for domestic
and export markets. GOI also supports cotton production in the region as it
is one of the few cash crops suitable for smallholders in these dry areas and
it is an import substitute crop which can be grown in few other areas of
Indonesia. In 1983/84 cotton was planted on about 3,750 ha in NTB and 1,925
ha in NTT, but average yields were low principally due to poor field manage-
ment practices and poor seed. Despite the limited success to date, problems
are relatively well understood and technical experts agree that the cotton is
potentially profitable in carefully selected parts of these provinces.  In
addition, on-farm trials carried out by the Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO) indicate that attractive yield increases can be obtained from secondary
foodcrops, including corn (the main subsistence crop in poorer areas), mung
and soybean, with the application of loa-cost improvements in agronomic tech-
niques and input use. Opportunities also exist for increasing productivity
through terracing and afforestation with Leucaena leucocephala, a leguminous
shrub referred to locally as lamtoro. In many regions of NTT/NTB environ-
mental damage has been arrested and reversed through the development of stable



- 13 -
farming systems based on lamtoro, and an intensive cattle fattening industry
has developed in some areas of NTT using Lamtoro foliage.
Project Formulation
33.       Investment priorities for NTT/NTB were identified under an Eastern
Indonesia Regional Development Study completed in 1976 with support from the
Canadian International Development Agency. This was followed in 1981 by a
UNDP-financed, World Bank-executed project which provided technical assistance
to prepare feasibility studies and to strengthen implementation capacity in
the BAPPEDAs of NTT/NTB. This project, Regional Planning and Preparation of
Investment Oriented Projects, is known by its Indonesian acronym, PPIPD. In
1983 the Bank reviewed the work of PPIPD to determine whether investment was
feasible and it tentatively agreed to support a project in the agricultural
sector in order to have the most direct impact on the rural poor. FolLowing
this decision, the GOt, assisted by staff from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program, prepared a multi-component project which included farming systems
research, cotton and livestock development, improvements to agricultural
support services, and road improvements to facilitate agricultural
development.
34.       In order to foster an integrated approach to agricultural services
under the project, the preparation report recommended that all agricultural
activities be identified and implemented by the provinces, rather than the
sectoral agencies. However, as the scale of the proposed project seemed to
exceed the implementation capacity of the BAPPEDAs alone, GOI and the Bank
agreed that all project activities normally undertaken by sectoral agencies
would be executed by these agencies and that funds would be channeled to the
provincial governments for activities to complement sectoral programs or
accelerate their implementation. At the GOI's request, the Bank also agreed
to include funds in the proposed project to extend the PPIPD approach to
Southeast Sulawesi and Irian Jaya, to finance two small-scale area development
projects identified in NTT and NTB under the first phase of PPIPD, and to pro-
vide technical assistance to the BAPPEDAs implementing the proposed project.
In view of the importance attached by GOI to the regional development focus of
the proposed project, particular attention was given during the design of the
project to organizational arrangements for coordination of project implementa-
tion between the sectors and levels of government involved (paras. 57-61).
Lessons learned from previous regional development projects assisted by the
Bank (para. 28), USAID, the Netherlands and the Federal Republic of Germany
were also considered, especially in the areas of project management,
implementation procedures and delineation of the roles of central and local
government agencies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government, with the assis-
tance of the UNDP and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, and was appraised in
March 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in September 1985. The
Indonesian delegation was led by Mr. Hariri Hady, Deputy Chairman for Regional
Development, BAPPENAS. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5786-IND) is being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplemental project data are
available in Annex III.



- 14 -
Project Objectives and Reasons for Bank Support
36.       The proposed project would help raise farmer incomes, promote
equitable regional development, strengthen provincial institutions, and decen-
tralize planning and implementation. The project would be the first stage of
a longer-range agricultural development program which focuses on two of
Indonesia's poorest provinces and within these provinces on the poorest part
of the population. As these provinces have a relatively untested agricultural
potential and limited implementation capacity, a major purpose of Bank
involvement would be to demonstrate alternative approaches to agricultural
development and to mobilize the technical support needed to improve the tech-
nical viability of the agricultural activities routinely carried out with
provincial funds. The project would also strengthen provincial institutions
and improve local-level planning and implementation, and provide a model for
regional development with an emphasis on agriculture which could be extended
to other areas of Indonesia.
Project Components
37.       Project components include:
(a) Components implemented by sectoral agencies:
(i) farming systems and cotton research implemented by the Agency
for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD);
(ii) cotton development implemented by the Directorate General of
Estates (DGE);
(iii) cattle development under the Directorate General of Livestock
Services (DGLS); and
(iv) national and provincial road improvement undertaken by the
Directorate General of Highways (DGH).
(b) Components implemented by the provinces:
(i) agricultural support services; and
(ii) area development (including rural roads financed in part by
ADB).
(c) Components cost-shared with UNDP (PPIPD II):
(i) technical support for project implementation in NTT and NTB;
(ii) technical support for regional investment studies for Southeast
Sulawesi and Irian Jaya; and
(iii) a regional development study of Irian Jaya.
(d) Consultant services and training provided under a grant from the
Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB).



- 15 -
38.       To complement development activities in NTT/NTB to be carried out
under the proposed project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
construction of 60 rural extension centers and 40 animal health posts and the
recruitment and training of related extension staff would be completed by
April 30, 1992. It is expected that this would be done under the proposed
Third National Agricultural Extension Project which is now being processed in
the Bank.
Detailed Project Features
39.       Farming Systems and Cotton Research.  The main objectives of this
component are to identify existing farming systems in NTT/NTB, improve these
systems through research on farmers' fields, and disseminate existing and
improved technologies to extension personnel and farmers. Assistance would
also be provided to help overcome the technical problems encountered in cotton
production in NTT/NTB. To meet these objectives, the project would establish
an eastern islands implementation unit, to be headed by a senior researcher
and to serve as a base for a multi-disciplinary team investigating farming
systems in NTT/NTB. This team would undertake an initial study of existing
farming systems and research on farmers' fields. In addition, funds would be
provided to upgrade cotton research facilities, to develop a cotton research
program focussed on quick returns and reduced economic costs, and to improve
the production of cotton breeder and foundation seed.
40.       Cotton Development.  The project would include a three-year pilot
project to determine the feasibility of large-scale cottcn development in
NTT/NTB. Support would be provided to the two government estates (PTPs) for
(a) verification trials; (b) seed procurement and production of stock seed to
improve the uniformity of recommended varieties; (c) establishment of 16 five-
hectare demonstration areas on farmers' fields; (d) training of extension
staff; and (e) a review at the end of the third project year. This revied
would evaluate PTP and farmer yields, the technical results of the pilot
project, and the financial situation of the PTPs, and it would determine the
potential for expanding smallholder cotton production in the area. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the final report on the cotton pilot
scheme, including a financial analysis of the PTPs, would be submitted to the
Bank by September 30, 1989.
41.       Cattle Development.  Under the proposed project, about 22,500 head
of breeding cattle would be purchased and redistributed to smallholders within
NTT/NTB and an additional 6,000 head would be distributed for fattening
purposes. Cattle would be purchased by the DGLS in the provinces where they
are distributed and would be procured in accordance with procedures reviewed
and agreed by the Bank. All cattle would be distributed to full-time farmers,
who do not own cattle but agree to establish adequate forage and adhere to
project husbandry standards. Credit for cattle acquisition would be provided
by the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Credit arrangements for the breeding
program would follow those in the Bank-assisted Smallholder Cattle Development
Project (Ln. 2628-IND): recipients of breeding cattle would be required to
return two animals to the project for each cow received, within six years;
while those receiving a cow and bull would return three animals, within seven
years. Under the fattening program, farmers would repay capital and 12%
interest in cash to the BRI when animals were sold.



- 16 -
42.       National and Provincial Road Improvement.  To support the various
agricultural development components of the project, road upgrading works would
be carried out on about 190 km of existing national and provincial roads on
Flores Island (NTT). These roads have pavements of penetration macadam, 3 to
4 meters in width, and are in very poor condition. Under the project they
would be widened to a 3.5 meter pavement and a 0.5 meter shoulder with a
double bituminous surface dressing on a 15 cm crushed stone base and with a
subbase and shoulders of selected materials. Consultants under the Bank-
assisted Highway Betterment Project (Ln. 2404-IND) would prepare final designs
and contract documents, and consultants under the proposed second phase of
that project would oversee construction supervision. Consultants would also
be engaged to train provincial staff in the operation and maintenance of the
equipment fleet, to design and supervise the construction of settlement roads
in NTT, and to undertake a feasibility study for a new 150 km road which would
open up areas of good potential for settlement and agricultural production on
the north coast of Flores. Equipment would be provided by the project for
road maintenance and an assurance was obtained at negotiations that all roads
improved under the project would be adequately maintained.
43.       Agricultural Support Services.  Under the proposed project, funds
would be made available to the provinces to finance priority projects in agri-
culture, to develop human resources and assist non-government organizations
(NCOs) working in agriculture. Annual operating plans for NTT and NTB would
specify the projects to be supported. First year plans include such activi-
ties as: seed multiplication, storage and distribution; plant protection;
distribution of small animals; construction of slaughterhouses; demonstrations
of conservation farming, intercropping and community forestry; training in
ecology, agricultural management, freshwater fish farming and home garden
development; and study tours covering agro-industries, irrigation management
and dryland farming. To maximize the impact of this component, agricultural
subprojects would be concentrated in eight districts given priority by the
BAPPEDAs. In total, about US$0.8 million would be allocated annually to NTB
and US$1.2 million to NTT. This would roughly double the provincial funds
available for agriculture in each of the project provinces and would improve
the ability of the provincial governments and local level agricultural
services to set priorities, manage incremental funds and meet the staffing
requirements of an expanded agricultural program. Since agency staff are
already heavily committed, up to 20% of such funds (up to US$1.2 million or 4%
of the proposed Bank loan) could be used to pay the honoraria and salaries of
incremental full-time project staff. Technical support to improve the quality
of implementation would be provided under PPIPD II.
44.       Area Development.  Funds would also be made available to the prov-
inces for two area development schemes identified under PPIPD I. Under the
first scheme, about US$2.5 million would be provided for roads, land titling,
water supply and health services in Lembor (NTT) in order to permit the set-
tlement of some 3,500 farmers already cultivating irrigated land in the
area. Under the second scheme, about US$1.5 million would be provided to
finance priority projects in two critically poor subdistricts of Lombok Tengah
(NTB). Projects such as soybean and cashew processing, nutrition monitoring,
bridge upgrading and improvements in high school laboratories were identified
under the first phase of PPIPD. In addition, about 40 km of rural roads
(US$1.0 million) would be improved in the Lombok Tengah project area under the
ADB-assisted Eighth Roads Project.



- 17 -
45.       PPIPD II.  TechnicaL support for project implementation and regional
investment studies would be provided under the PPIPD II component which would
be cost-shared with UNDP and executed by their Office of Project Execution
(OPE). Under this component, a chief technical advisor would be stationed in
Cipta Karya (the agency in the Ministry of Public Works responsible for
regional planning) and a financial advisor would be provided to the Director-
ate General of Regional Development (Bangda). Two agricultural experts would
be hired to assist with the project's provincially implemented components, and
regional development advisors and short-term consultants would be provided to
the BAPPEDAs of Southeast Sulawesi and Irian Jaya to extend the PPIPD approach
to these provinces and to help identify investment opportunities there. In
addition, a regional development study would be carried out to evaluate the
natural and human resource base of Irian Jaya, identify investment options for
manpower and institutional development, and prepare an agricultural support
project suitable for external assistance.
Status of Preparation
46.       Land for research sites has been identified and agreed with provin-
cial authorities and funds for land purchase, if required, will be included in
COI budgets in the first project year. Terms of reference (TORs) for the
Irian Jaya Regional Development Study have been prepared and agreed with the
GOI. TORs for a cotton research development specialist have also been agreed
and a consultant is being recruited under the National Agricultural Research
II Project (Ln. 1840-IND/Cr. 1014-IND) to finalize the proposed cotton
research program. TORs for the farming systems survey have been prepared and
TORs are available for technical assistance to be provided by ADAB and UNDP.
A detailed inception report based on the farming system study and outlining
the proposed program of research would be submitted to the Bank for review and
approval by June 30, 1987. Consultants have been engaged under the Bank-
assisted Highway Betterment Project (Ln. 2404-IND) to prepare detailed designs
and contract documents for road construction, and this work would permit ten-
dering of about 50X of contracts by about April 1986.
Project Costs
47.       The total estimated project cost is US$59.0 million, of which
US$22.8 million (38%) is foreign exchange. Base costs are expressed in Novem-
ber 1Y35 prices. Costs include about US$2.4 million for taxes. Cost esti-
mates include 8Z physical contingencies on the per km cost of roads (15% on
the subbase and earthworks and none on pavement, since lengths are known) and
15% on field research. No other physical contingencies are provided as quan-
tities are generally known or funds are allocated annually in a lump sum.
Total physical contingencies are estimated at US$1.2 million, or 2% of project
costs. Price contingencies assume domestic price increases of 8% in 1985-90
and 5% thereafter and foreign price increases of 5% in 1985, 7.52 in 1986, 8%
in 1987-90 and 5% thereafter. Total price contingencies are equal to US$9.0
million or 18% of base costs plus physical contingencies.
48.       Given the limited capacity of agencies working in NTT/NTB, the pro-
posed project provides about 1,240 man-months of expatriate and domestic con-
sultancy support. Of this, about 588 man-months (47%) would be for expatriate



- 18 -
assistance, of which 90X would be provided on grant by the ADAB or part-grant
by UNDP. All technical support would be either paid for by UNDP/ADAB or
reimbursed 100Z from the proposed loan.
Financing Plan
49.       The proposed Bank loan of US$33.0 million would cover 60% of the
total cost of the project Less taxes (US$2.4 million) and the cost of reserved
procurement of vehicles (US$1.6 million), which is equivalent to 100% of for-
eign exchange costs, and about 47% of local costs. UNDP would provide US$3.4
million for the PPIPD II component while the COI would provide US$2.7 million
for PPIPD II from the proceeds of the Bank loan. ADAB would provide grant
funds for technical support for agricultural components and overseas training
for project staff, at a total estimated cost of about US$2.8 million. The
provision of ADAB funds or other adequate funds for such technical assistance
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan. ADB would
provide about US$0.6 million through its Eighth Roads Project to help finance
rural road improvements in NTB. External assistance (US$39.8 million) would
cover 702 of total project costs less taxes, while 30% (US$19.2 million) would
be provided by the GOI. Detailed design for national and provincial road
construction would be financed from the Bank-assisted Highway Betterment
Project (Ln. 2404-IND) and the one cotton research consultant would be
financed from the National Agricultural Research II Project (Ln. 1840-IND/
Cr. 1014-IND)
Flow of Funds
50.       Funds for sectoral components would flow directly from the Ministry
of Finance to the implementing agencies. Funds for the provincial components
would flow to Bangda for release to the provinces. Under the proposed cattle
development component, Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) would act as a channeling
agent for GOI funds. The signing of a financing agreement between GOI and
BRI, and subfinancing agreement between BRI and DGLS, would be a condition of
disbursement against this component. Although the government estates (PTPs)
are normally required to prefinance smallholder development from commercial
credit sources, in view of the financial weakness of the PTPs included in the
project, GOI has agreed to provide the DGE with funds for the pilot cotton
development component from the development budget. Assurances were also
obtained at negotiations that funds would be provided for provincially
implemented components in addition to those funds needed to maintain current
leveLs of expenditure.
Procurement
51.       Procurement arrangements are shown in the table below.  Interna-
tionaL competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines would be used to improve national and provincial roads (US$10.8
million) and to procure road construction equipment, farm machinery and labo-
ratory equipment (US$2.5 million). A preference limited to 15% of the CIF
price of imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to domestic manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Rural road
works and project facilities (US$6.1 million), which are widely scattered and



- 19 -
unsuitable to grouping into packages large enough for ICB, would be tendered
according to local procedures which are uniform throughout the country and are
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts would generally be under US$200,000 and any
contract over US$500,000 would be reviewed and agreed by the Bank. Local com-
petitive bidding procedures would be used to procure small equipment (US$0.7
million), cattle (US$5.8 million), furniture and office supplies (US$0.4 mil-
lion), domestic consulting services for road supervision, accounting and
financial control (US$2.0 million), and all provincial services (US$10.9 mil-
lion) other than those noted below.
PROJECT EXPENDITURES BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY /a
(US$ millions)
Category                    ICB       LCB       Other /b    N.A. /c    Total
Civil works                    10.8       6.1       -            -          16.9
(7.6)     (3.5)     (-)          C-)        (11.1)
Vehicles and equipment          2.5       0.7       1.6          -           4.8
(1.8)     (0.5)     (-)          (-)         (2.3)
Livestock, agro-inputs
and supplies                 -         6.2      0.8           -           7.0
C-)      (4.0)    (0.4)         (-)         (4.4)
Services (including
PPIPD II)                    -        12.9       -          10.1        23.0
C-)      (9.6)     (-)         (5.6)       (15.2)
Overhead and adminis-
tration                      -          -        -           7.3          7.3
C-)       (-)       (-)         (-)          C-)
Total Cost               13.3      25.9      2.4         17.4        59.0
(9.4)    (17.6)    (0.4)        (5.6)       (33.0)
/a  Including taxes.
7b   Other means of procurement include direct purchase of fertilizer, prudent
shopping, and reserved procurement.
/c   Not applicable.  Land acquisition, research, training, travel and per
diem, overheads and administration, technical assistance provided by ADAB
and UNDP.
Notes: Figures in parentheses refer to loan allocations.
52.       As the GOI requires the purchase of locally assembled vehicles
(US$1.6 million), which are considerably more costly than imported vehicles,
these items would be regarded as reserved procurement. In view of the impor-
tance of vehicles to development in NTT and NTB, assurances have been obtained
that GOI would purchase all vehicles required for the project in an appro-
priately phased manner, but no later than by Nay 1, 1988. Purchases of minor
implements and office supplies under US$50,000 with an aggregate limit of



- 20 -
US$500,000 could be obtained through prudent shopping with three price
quotations. Fertilizers and pesticides (about US$0.3 million) would be
procured directly from local suppliers, as the quantities required are too
small to be procured efficiently in separate lots. Consultants for the Irian
Jaya Study (US$2.3 million), the road and Livestock studies (US$0.5 million),
and technical support financed by the Bank (US$1.2 million) would be inter-
nationally recruited under procedures consistent with Bank Group GuideLines on
the use of consultants.
53.       Procurement Review.  The Bank reviews contract evaluation and award
through its Resident Staff in Indonesia which works closely with government
agencies on procurement matters. Under the proposed project, all contracts
over US$500,000, about US$14 million or about 24Z of project costs, would be
subject to the Bank's prior review. These include concracts for road improve-
ment and construction supervision (US$11.3 million), road construction equip-
ment and farm machinery (US$2.5 million). Most other tendering would occur at
the provincial level and involve small contracts which would be reviewed by
the Bank on a sample basis.
Disbursement
54.       Disbursement of the proposed Bank loan would be as follows:  (a) 70Z
of the cost of civil works; (b) 100% of the cost of foreign expenditure for
equipment, machinery, and supplies, 95% of the cost of locally manufactured
goods procured ex-factory, and 70Z of locally procured items; (c) 70% of the
cost of research, demonstration activities and training; (d) 100% of the cost
of consultant services and studies other than those provided by ADAB and UNDP;
(e) 70% of the cost of cattle; (f) 70% of the cost of services, works and
equipment for provincially implemented components; and (g) 100% of the Bank's
contribution to consultant services and studies provided by UNDP.
55.       At Government s request, US$2.7 million of Bank funds would be dis-
bursed directly to the UNDP on a schedule agreed between the GOI, UNDP and the
Bank and reflected in a memorandum of agreement between the GOI and UNDP. This
would cover the GOI's share of PPIPD II. Disbursement would normally be
against standard documentation; however, disbursement would be made against
statements of expenditure (SOE) submitted by the agencies to the Ministry of
Finance for research, verification trials and demonstration activities, train-
ing and provincial components. Retroactive financing of up to US$60,000
equivalent would be provided for a settlement study for Lembor carried out
since appraisal. To assist agencies to keep adequate accounts, domestic con-
sultants would be hired for bookkeeping and accounting functions, and the
employment of suitably qualified accountants would be a condition of disburse-
ment against the research, cotton development, cattle development and
provincially implemented components. Estimated disbursements are consistent
with the disbursement profile for agriculture and rural development projects
for the first three project years, but accelerate thereafter. Complete
disbursement of loan proceeds would extend over eight Bank fiscal years. This
is considered reasonable since 85% of all expenditures are budgeted in the
first three project years and steps have been taken to ensure adequate
bookkeeping and the timely submission of disbursement applications. Project
works are expected to be completed by April 30, 1992 and the project closing
date is October 31, 1992.



- 21 -
Accounts and Audits
56.       Separate accounts and SOEs would be maintained for the project.  The
accounts, SOEs, and accounts of BRI related to the project would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and the audited
accounts and audit reports would be submitted to the Bank by the involved
agencies (AARD, DGE, DGLS, DGH, and Bangda) within nine months of the close of
each GOI fiscal year.
Organization and Management
57.       At the national level the project would be coordinated by a Steering
Committee consisting of the Deputy Chairman for Regional Development
(BAPPENAS) and heads of the main implementing agencies: Bangda, Cipta Karya,
AARD, DGE, DGLS, DGH, and the Planning Bureau in the Ministry of Agriculture,
and representatives of the Ministry of Finance. The Steering Committee would
be convened by Bangda in cooperation with the Deputy for Regional Development
in BAPPENAS, and it would meet twice a year to review project progress,
provide policy guidance and resolve outstanding issues. A Technical Committee
would also be formed to handle day-to-day project matters. The Steering
Committee and Technical Committee would be served by a Secretariat located in
Bangda which would provide administrative services, coordinate inter-agency
meetings and be the liaison point for the Bank.
58.       To strengthen the administrative capacity of Bangda, a Project Coor-
dinating Unit (PCU) has been formed to act as the project Secretariat and to
facilitate follow up, fund flows and reporting. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (a) the PCU would have its own space and a full-time staff;
and (b) a qualified local accountant would be employed by Bangda to maintain
records and train staff. To further strengthen the PCU, an expatriate
financial advisor would be provided to Bangda under PPIPD II. Key staff have
already been appointed.
59.       Sectoral components would be implemented by the line agencies while
the provincially implemented components would be carried out by the regional
offices of the line agencies and the provincial services, under the coordina-
tion of Project Management Units (PMUs) in the BAPPEDAs. As under the
existing government system, the BAPPEDAs would also be responsible for inter-
agency coordination within each province. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that all project line agencies and BAPPEDAs would appoint project
managers by May 1, 1986.
60.       Annual Operating Plans (AOP) for provincially implemented components
would be prepared by the PMUs working with the BAPPEDAs and the various
provincial offices. AOPs would be prepared for both Agricultural Support
Service and Area Development components, and would include investment pro-
posals, budgets, staffing plans, and economic justification. AOPs would be
submitted in July of each year to the PCU in Bangda which would review propo-
sals with technical working groups in the Ministry of Agriculture and Cipta
Karya. When approved, the AOPs would be returned to the provinces and would
provide the basis for preparing project budgets. These procedures are similar
to those used successfully in  several bilateral projects. AOPs for the first
project year have been prepared and are satisfactory to the Bank.



- 22 -
61.       PPIPD II would be executed by the UNDP's Office of Project Execution
(OPE) with the World Bank acting as associated agency and advising the execu-
ting agency on such matters as preparation of TORs, design of work programs,
and appointment of key personnel. The Bank would also participate in reviews
of the project and provide technical advice as required. Under procedures
agreed with the GOI, OPE would hire technical advisers to be stationed in
Cipta Karya and Bangda, and regional development advisers to be stationed in
NTT, NTB, Southeast Sulavesi and Irian Jaya. Timely implementation of the
Irian Jaya Study would require that a national resource survey which was
undertaken in the Ministry of Transmigration be made available to Cipta Rarya
by the time the consultants arrive. Therefore, an assurance was obtained at
negotiations that this report together with relevant background material would
be made available to the consultants by May 1, 1986.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
62.       Under the proposed project, implementing agencies would be respon-
sible for monitoring physical progress, project expenditures and project
impact and for submitting semi-annual reports to the Steering Committee
through the project Secretariat in Bangda. Copies of these reports would also
be submitted to the Bank; and a mid-term review would be carried out focusing
especially on the cotton development and provincially implemented compo-
nents. Bangda would be responsible for compiling the final reports of the
agencies for the draft project completion report.
Agricultural Production and Marketing
63.       The major project output would be cattle.  During a 20-year period,
an estimated offtake of about 205,000 cattle and about 3,200 tons of
liveweight beef would be produced. Total incremental stock on hand at the end
of year 20 would be about 74,000 head. Market prospects for these animals are
good since NTT and NTB are a major source of cattle supply, and in recent
years some 65,000 large animals, mainLy cattle, have been exported annually
from these provinces. The project would also support the production of cotton
as well as a variety of other crops. As cotton is an import substitution crop
and two modern cotton gins with an annual capacity of about 24,000 tons of
seed cotton have recently been established in NTT and NTB, marketing or pro-
cessing problems are not envisaged. The production of other crops including
rice, corn, fruits, vegetables, etc., is also expected to increase as a result
of project activities, but this incremental production would be in small quan-
tities, dispersed over a large area and easily absorbed by local markets.
Project Benefits and Economic Analysis
64.       The project would encourage agricultural development activities in
two of the poorest provinces in Indonesia. These activities would increase
national output, enhance regional development, improve farm income and employ-
ment opportunities, and upgrade the local governments' capacity to plan, exe-
cute, and evaluate their development programs.
65.       Two project activities have quantifiable benefits - cattle develop-
ment and improvement of main roads. The primary economic benefit of the cat-



- 23 -
tle development component would be the improved productivity from an increased
number of breeders and fatteners. Total economic benefits are expected to
reach about US$4.2 million in the nineteenth year after commencement of the
project. Some 45,000 smallholder families would directly benefit from this
component, and most of these would be small farmers with incomes below the
poverty line. About 35,000 jobs in cattle husbandry would also be created.
66.       For the cattle development component, a farm budget analysis has
been undertaken for four farm models. Financial prices for all commodities
are based on actual 1985 farmgate prices. In these models, farm income varies
according to the number and type of cattle received and the impact of other
project components is excluded. Under these assumptions, the present annual
per capita incomes of various 2odel farms range from US$37 to US$65, which is
low compared to the absolute poverty line of US$108 per capita in the country,
but consistent with observed incomes in NTT/NTB. This income level would
increase by 12-19X without the project, and, if only cattle distribution is
considered, the income level i-ould increase by US$65 to US$135 or 57% to 110%
in the future with the project. Farmers' actual incomes with the project
would be even higher if unquantified income effects of other project
components were taken into account.
67.       About 190 km of main national and provincial roads would be improved
under the project. Economic benefits of the proposed road improvements are
derived from net savings on vehicle operating costs, users' time costs and
maintenance costs, comparing the situation with and without the project. The
current daily traffic on these roads is relatively low (about 100 to 300 vehi-
cles) and it is expected that traffic would increase at an annual growth rate
of about 10% during 1985-90, and about 8X thereafter. Due to project develop-
ment, generated traffic of about 20-50% of the normal traffic volume is also
expected. It is assumed that benefits of the generated traffic would be about
50% of normal traffic benefits. Beneficiaries of the main road improvements
would be local residents, mainly small farmers.
68.       The project's economic rates of return (ERR) are estimated at about
18% for cattle development and 24Z for road improvement. ERRs for the indivi-
dual road links vary from 10% to 43Z, depending on the existing condition and
traffic density of the link. These figures are conservative since many direct
and indirect unquantified benefits attributable to these activities have been
excluded. Crossover (or switching) values for a 10% discount rate, the
assumed opportunity cost of capital (OCC), were calculated for a number of
variables crucial to the success of the project. Both project components
could experience considerable cost overruns or reduced benefits and remain
above the lO OCC. For cattle development, a 70% increase in investment cost
or a 40: decrease in total benefits would be required to reduce the compo-
nent's ERR to 10%. The economic val-ue of cattle has been projected at
Rp 800/kg of incremental liveweight, but the proiect would still be economi-
cally viable if the price were as low as Rp 360/kg. The average ERR of the
road improvement component would remain above the 10% OCC with a 76% cost
overrun or a 43% reduction of total benefits.
69.       The cost recovery index for the cattle development component has
been calculated at about 40%. The GOI would receive incremental revenues from



- 24 -
(a) sales of returned cattle; (b) farmers' repayment for distributed fatten-
ers; and (c) taxes from incremental cattle marketing. This cost recovery is
in Line with other projects in Indonesia such as the Smallholder Cattle Devel-
opment Project and is acceptable given the low incomes of the project small-
holders. There is no direct cost recovery for the research, cotton develop-
ment, road improvement or provincially implemented components, although
improved farmer incomes and productivity would eventually raise the value of
land and increase land taxes.
Environmental and Social Impact
70.       The proposed project would have a strong positive impact on the
environment, particularly in degraded areas of NTT. It would encourage affor-
estation and terracing with lamtoro and promote research which would improve
the ecological soundness of existing farming systems. It would aLso remove
cattle from large free grazing herds and give preference to their redistribu-
tion in areas where they would be tethered and stall fed. Under the cotton
development component special attention would be given to reducing pesticide
use and introducing pest scouting and natural predators. Although NTT and NTB
consist of numerous ethnic groups, virtually all groups practice sedentary
cultivation in part, and there are no unusual problems of minority peoples in
the area. Women, who share agricultural responsibilities and help manage
household incomes, would benefit from income generating components. The study
in Irian Jaya would focus on strategies to benefit the local people and
include an inventory of human resources. Both environmentalists and social
scientists would be included in the study team.
Risks
71.       There are a number of uncertainties about appropriate agricultural
packages for NTT and NTB but the risks associated with these uncertainties are
minimized by supporting pilot projects (in the case of cotton development) and
research prior to large-scale smallholder involvement. There are also organi-
zational risks associated with the use of Bangda as coordinating agency and
the use of provincial agencies to support agricultural development. To reduce
these risks an office has been created in Bangda to facilitate fund flow and
coordination, consultant support would be provided, BAPPEDAs would be
strengthened and there would be a three-year limit on the provincially
implemented component so that poss-'ble cost and time overruns would not delay
the project as a whole. With these safeguards, the implementatian capacity of
the local governments would be improved and the chance of failure minimized.
In addition, major sectoral components would be implemented by capable line
agencies, and the project has been formulated so that project components are
relatively independent of one another and delays in one component would not
affect implementation of the others. Finally, to avoid problems encountered
in the Bank-assisted Rural Roads Development Project (Ln. 2083-IND), the
proposed road improvement component would be implemented by DGH, an
experienced executing agency, and assisted by consultants. Major road
contracts would be tendered through ICB with pre-qualified contractors. These
provisions would ensure adequate quality of the proposed works.



- 25 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 1, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNE I
-26 -                                   Page 1 of 6 pages
V                       (NM asC    UTMAM
au cun sq. no
TOTAL                            191.3      13194.    1913.3
SRZWLSIUEL                       296.3       307.1      313.1
CWUACUUS                       ..          .       360.0            1011.1                  1675.3
mx inn macw
(mo s ow o.qOOL WuALU)            6.0        95.        191.0             36.                     993.6
mm  m nL 
OPUL.ATIIUF0D-TRAR ftihua )  3460.0    11201.0   13369.0
II1* PO?U SIIOU CE Of TOTAL)      14.6        17.1       24.1              33.9                    67.7
SICWULAOR DN 1*n20Wo   CILL)N                         212.0
uusarzae winuunou CNEL)                               363.0
i0U DL&TIW 33 3i
UR sq. M.                       49.3        60.3       81.1             36.9                    4*.0
il sq. EL. SO. LA              39.3        378.       483              l11.2                     31.1
DOWULAXWME an 3302335 CE)
0-14                           40.7        ".0        40.6              38.2                    38.5
1-64 A                          34.2        33.4      35J3               37.7                    57.1
6esAnAO                          3.0         2.3        3.3               3.3                     4.2
iOUULAUOU GROVER RUT (C)
TOTAL                            2.1         2.0        2.2               2.3                     2.4
1U11                             3.7         3.6        4.3               4.1                     3.6
-__ 3m  31 (FU  RO )              ".2        41.0        34.0             30.1                     30.9
=E 235 1U1T  (Ml TI00U)           22.3        174        12.8               9.4                     3.0
Gem 3030000103 lAZR                2.7        2.7         2.1               1.9                     2.0
ACCTOR. ANNAL (5)                 .        181.1     3051.0 /*
UUS=  CE of 0 13 VON)             ..         ..        58.0              36.5                    45.3
'} oF iOD Pa. M  aim
(1960-71-lo)                      93.0       102.0      123.0             124.4                   109.6
a= cermmin or
CALO.S (Z O0  IQINES)           79.0        92.0      112.0             113.7                   113.2
PUOT1N (CAS  FM DAY)            34.0        41.0       33.0              60.3                    69.4
0 ISCS ANDU   AM PML.           6.0         6.0                         160 14.1                34.2
5113 *C   1-4) 0RER4              21.9        13.1       13.0               7.2                     4.
L--  ZSCP. AT KII (Un)            41.2       47.0        33.3              60.6                    ".3
21*3       AT (am CPU 3S)      150.0       121.0      101.0             64.9                     59.7
ACUD  TO 303 SAM  (Dow)
TOTL                             ..          3.0       23.0              46.                     65.3
Ulm                                         10.0       40.0              57.6                    76.3
UAL                                          1.0       13.0              37.1                    44.2
AMZ88T0 mIZXA 315108LA.
CX OF PMAI
TOUAL                            ..         13.0       23.0              30.1                    56.3
URB                              ..         19.0       20.0               2.9                    73.4
RURAL                            ..        14.0        24.0              44.7                    25.3
IPOUJAUOU PM  UMUCXIA          46730.0    26310.0    11330.0             7751.7                  190 .7
PO9. MR  1UShc LEMO             4510.0 /f  7680.0      2300.0           2464.8                    U8.2
Pop. a RBnT.L sm
TOTAL                         1360.0      1650.0     1720.0 a          1112.1                   362.0
mRIAX                          250.0         ..       700.0              51                     422.0
RU.AL                                                3160.0            2396.9                  216.7
AM381U3 P33 ROUSAL.                ..          ..         ..              41.1                     27.5
AVEURE3250EUROL
TOTAL                            4.4        4.3         ..
URBAN                            4.9         3.3
RURAL                            4.3        4.7
A9IA    510. 0 PRRSO/RO
TOTAL                            ..          1.5
URBAN                    ..         1.6        .                  ..
RRL                              ..          1.3         ....
TOTAL                            ..          ..
ens                      ..         ..         .                  ..
SL                               ..          ..         .                 ..



ANNE I
- 27 -                                         Page 2 of 6 pages
1i0L       17mLb iUi Lk            muIA  PACWC            W. umc&e CA
ADJOSTRI ENULLNI RATIOS
13131 S TOTAL                    71.0       77.0      100.0              100.7                   100.7
mmI.3                 06.0        83.0      101.0             104.4                    106.5
131NAL2               36.0        71.0       54.0              97.2                    104.6
SICAUDAIL: TOAL                   1         13.0       33.0              47.5                     44.2
mUU                   10.0        20.0       35.0              S0.6                     42.
131AL.                32.0        10.0       27.0              "A                       44.9
VOCATIOKAL CZ OF sR_hN)            20.4       22.1       13.9              18.4                     13.3
PO)PIL-TRACEIR RATIO
PRIM=                            39.0       29.0       29.0               30.4                    2.9
SICOU:AIT                        14.0       13.0       16.0              22.2                     16.7
PASSRUOUZ CARS/T05*   105           1.1        2.1        4.A              10.1                     46.0
RADIO N1UvzZS/_UWU  Po1             7.2       21.9      131.2              172.9                   323J
TV    _        _    par             0.1        oa        22.J              36.3                    112.A
N3U1*  ("ALY    I
I-TSIX3I") CI3C0IATXOU
PRTUlAlRSDIaioU                   11.0        ..        14.               63J .1.1
CI    ANe                          2A          ..         IA  c             34                       2.4
TOmAL 1.AMR  1030 (0mS)         3471.0    41090.0    3417.0
IDL! (P3mm                       27A        30.9       293               33.6                     23.6
ICALTOI (tS?)                    75.0         .0       36.0              52.2                     31A.
3!! STITCUT)                      8.0       10.0       12.0 7            17.9                     24J
FAIMECUIAO NM (RmCMT)
TOTL                             36.7       33.4       35.0              35.9                     33.3
*1.                              54.2       49.5 4S.6                    soa                      S1.
13*.                             20.0       21.4       20a               26.6                     13.J
3Co0IC DWOTA R0                     1.2        l.3        1.3               1.1                      1.3
imm  auzmna
,m                 r OF PIAU 13
1X11    3
umS?53 OF  0        6             ..         ..        23. J.
EICUS  21  30        I            ..         ..          VA7             "46.0
Wlmlo or ian_nDs                  ..         ..         *A . 16.4
L.03 5    or 17     3             ..         ..        14.4               15.5
- - -
-S          UN Z           -C
LUEL (C6 PER CAeT
RRAS                              ..        24.0      124.04               .                     23.3
IMRAL                           .*        106.0      106.0              151.                     65
-   muEw smOur IMN
LLn (VS$ PM CAFT)
3l3.                                                   119.0             177.9                   519.8
3381.                             ..         ..        93.0              164.7                   333.7
ZSE QMP. nLW INL
POSIT lo LoWL CZ)
OEM*3                             ..        51.0       26.01A            23.5
NAL                              ..        39.0       44.0             3W76
Nor AVAUA.3
MrSO AIPLICIII
*fr  TMu group s.m  fot ekLisgr AN&   udm e   p,lzo-m$e an emterepwMlAhatie               ofbvqe. ematile
mass the 1na=Lp   I I deIe on svmS2alsb y of dm2w am  If 3Mt voIh!U.
/b  Umlear otboaud. meted. "Oats tc 140 Te8mW tO mmW YeOM Ieum  It.9   - 1961; "has I,I 1970 bmaum
1569 SWd 1971S med data for "bm: Umemt mUnings" bahama 1961 mm 1962
.L.   90;j 1977; A~ 1373; U. !ml2  &  1976; A 196 pdaemm
.. 1s



- 28 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6 pages
DRIO1IS OFSOCIAL INMATOU
Not.a Albmush dat ardrwn ram soures u nwAy judpd she moa autmoritatlv an rial it ahuM absob notd dias sikey may not be Imteabonlly
comprble buse of she lak of stdnddied dedltiom and coets ud by di_reat counoim clectin the dau, The dan ae. nonees sful to
decribc ordm of ma_ude. indicact e sd. an chaaterixe cerauin major din  bn comua.
The referen  groups awe (I ) she sof country group of the subject contry ad 2) * couty grup wish soewhat hiew avaea income thn th cowty
roupofthesubpcnuyztfor-lH;l IneO;i Eape -a grpou ereMiddle inNcorh Africa snd Middle Eaut isacion because of uronger
aociocultua agimies). in th rerence goup da the avetge are population wuIted anthmektic mam for de idkcator and shown only whe majority
of th conties in a group bs data for tat indicator. Sinm the ovemp fcoumUawmongtbte indsi on depends on the avalabiity of dan and is not unform.
caution ant be cised to rfdting av fge or ne inicator toanotLer. Thtw averna are only useful in comparing she valu of one indicator at * uvn among
the country sad refe grupL
AREA (tbousand sq.km.)                                        Crde Jit Rae (per thasand)-Number of live births in thc year
Totel-Total surface ara comprising lad u   and inland waten;  per thousand of mid-year popuatiosi 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Cre Death Rae (pa thoJsead)-Number of deaths in the year
AgFaritml-Estimnate of agricultural area used temporarily or  per thousand of mid-year popubation 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gos Reprodued   Rate-Average number of daughtcrs a woman
lie fallow. 1960.1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her nornW  reproductive period if sbe ep
present ae-specfic fertility rates; usually five-year aveags ending
GNP PER CAPrIA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calulated by same  conversion method as WOrid  Fai* l Phbl-Accepews. AX_i (1ahszsaids)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis): 1983 daaL                         berofacceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning program
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignte.    F Uk( Pimig-Usm (pecn  fof umu   wuu.)nip-Thc percen-
petroleum. natural gs and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elc-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
trioty) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capila; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                    of child-beating age are gerally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contaptiv  usge is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL SIATISTICS                               groups.
Total n Pd awim. Mid-Yew (thsmdr)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRIION
and 1983 data.
Index of FoodPrtrdictieu Per Coost (1969-71 =180)-Index of per
Urli_ Pepuarie (pcewt of trl)-Ratio of urban to total         capita annual producoon of all food commodities Production
populatio direrent dfinitions of urban areas may affect compar-  dus animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among counies; 1960. 1970. and 1983 ata       indude prianay commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Pepuate Phjecin                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popsdatioa Z year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,  excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. puls, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Smarting with information on  vegetables, fnrits, nuts. suprcane and supgr bees Ivstock, and
total population by age and se;x ertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggrgte production of each country is based
iternational migation in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights 1951-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalzed  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.           Ptr Coki Supp    fC&alss (pacet offtViaCmaes)-Comput-
Staeionary popzdatom-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies avilable in country
tlity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacnment lcvel  tion. imports kss exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirenents were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement kvel.                                     waste at household level 1961. 1970 and 19B2 data.
Poplation Momenrta-ls the tendency for population growth to   Per Capia Splvy ofhewe. (pSas per dny)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for al countries establisbed by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year  is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of otal protein per
a ratio of the ultitnate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year r, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of  e
ment level from year t onward. 198S data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 gramsofanimal protein as an
f1u.a  DeLsi*Y                                                averg for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
.Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply, 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              hr Capgta P.teu Ssp* From Ard  and hue-Protein supply
Ar sqJkm. agricultural lCd-Computed as above for agriculual  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only, 1960. 1970, and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
PoplAtiu Ate Structre (percesa)-Children (0-14 years). work-  Ch& (Ae 1-4) Deab Rate (per thr is_d)-Number of deaths of
ing age (IS-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data,            group in a given year. For most developing countries data denved
Populte Growth Rate (p nru)-t.eal--Annual growth rates of     from lic tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 daza_
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
PopWati.m Growth Name (percent.)-in_a-Annual growth rates     Life Ezpectauy or Bbih (yeors)-Number of years a newborn
or urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
- 29 -                                Page 4 of 6 pages
at th tim e of of its birth we  to stay the  me throughout ius Hfe;  Pt4&pIachr Atio - prowy. aid mcmdry-Total studet  -
1960, 1970 and 1933 data.                                     roled in primary ad  _condary  1wl divided by numbn  of
Irfw Mwrale EMv (per theasad)-Number of infanu who die         ethe  in the corpnding kwle
befor reching one yar of age per thousod livc birt  in o given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSU fllON
Acmasto So  WOa  (Pweg  of pemm-e~w#^n ad                     hssqu  Cm (per chesed pep.IuiIe) P-Pi.nrca  corn-
raid-Number of people (tol u        d rural) wih reaonab      pin motor car sating kw than eight pen  exclude. anbul-
aum to mfe wae suppy (Include trtd sufae wam  or               nce, her  and militay vehidcl
untrted but uncontaminated we  uswh a tha frO  pro c          ed A& Re    rs (ps r srAmu   A,rd  am-A1l types of receiver
borehol  srings and stary well) a perenta  of their rapec-    for rdio broadcat to geal public per thouand of population;
tive popufl  . Ian     e urbn *ma public fountain or stmpost  cadudes un-liceond receive. in countries and in yea  when
located not more than 200 meter from a hoe  may be consied       tion of radio se was   effct; dat for ret  yea  may
a being wthin rasone aw    of that bos. In rmrl are           not be compaable ce most countr  abolished lice
resonable    mwould imply that the houwie or memben of the
house_od do not have to pend a dsroportionte par of the day   TVR,CIV  (per tmpepmOm)-TV renwvr for broadcaset
in fetchiag the fsmily's waer                                 to general public per thousd population; excldes unlimed TV
in fetching theD_  t family's weer~           dreciver in cutre and in yea when resrion of TV nu was
Await. Emwst Dispos  (piuM o qp.poisl,a.)-re4la, when,        in effect.
_d raid-Number of people (total, urba, and rural) srved by
xcret disposl a page of their mspective  populations.          MirW CVer     t_ili (pr tbdShows the aver-
Excreta disposl may include the colcion and disposil. with or  ag aculation of "'day general intst newsppe; defind as a
without  atmet, of human excrete and waste-water by water-    piodiclW publication devod primarl to recding geu newW
borne systm  or the use of pit privies and similar insulaatiom.  It Is considered to be daily" if it appea at la four tfma wwek.
Fbpo  esr   tioPhjim-4bpulation divided by number of pra      Cncs Aa_          AuttdiC  pr Ca*a per Yea-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at univrsity levd.  number of tickes sold during the year. ircluding admission to
Pyulai. par MNwtiag Puoseu-Ppulation divided by number of     dmve-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicng male and female grduate nurse, assistant nurses.       B    FORCE
pracical nurscs and nursing auxiliris                         T    Loaer Foc (thimaudrj-Economrcally acive perons. i
PapA_im pgr Hosca kd-rolo when, amd nwal-lpulation              r        adf  A      uneoyb    e               hmves.
(totaL urban and rural)  divided  by their espetve number or  suding ared fores ad unemployed but eacuding houswiv
hospital beds availdable in public and private. genera) and    i   snnts. tC, cov    population of *s Ddeinitions in
hospitals and rehabiltation centers. HOspitals are estabish   various countries arc not compaable; 1960. 1970 and 1933 data.
pecnanedy staffed by a last one physician. Establishments prov-  Fmal (powor)-Fcral labor force as percentage of toWl labor
iding prncipally cutodal care ar not incuded. Rural hospitals.    fori
howveva, inde health and medical centers not permanenty staffed  Agviahw  (peramej-Labof force in farning, forstry. hunting
by a physician (but by a media assistant, nursc. midwife, etc.)    and fishing as peretage of total labor fo; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data
of medical faclies                                            Inhwry (perant)-Labor force in mining. consucti  n,anu-
AArdua.z per Hospil Bi-Total number of admissions to or       facuring and elecicity. water and ps as permcetage of tota labor
disLharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 datL
P.udpa*w Rat (parcuarJ-t mlre d.rp
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor formc
Averge Sr,r of H obd  (psm       r pt a. -w,                  as percntages of total male and female population of al ags
ad,wnl-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respecively; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. These ar baud on ILO's
iving quaters and thi mai meals. A boarder or lodger may or   paipatrs   cting ag-sex srcture of the popultion. and
may not be included in the household for satstc  purposes,    long time trend. A few estimates are from national sourcm.
Averae Ntmber of Pers per Roe_-total, when, ad intaF-         Eceouoc Dependency Ratio-Rato of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwelings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOMIE DISTRIBUTION
PkcM  o                            DPs  ** Eetof_  - .P_ Or raDk  *wo    (bc m cm  an Ai)
Pcetgof Dwefiags with Ekcrricky-ratat,when, and raral-   hiateofotlDsuhe  cur(akinahadha)
Conventional dwelings with elcricity in living quarters as percen-  Accring tO percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwetings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjted E      _rUnea Ratis                                    The foflowing estimates ar very approximate measures of poverty
APrj_, school - tota. mak and fena-Gross totL male and        levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femakl enrollment of all ages at the primary lcvd as pernotages of  Estnaed Abshte Pwrty Income Lnd (USS per cq,ait)-eer
a           respective primary shool-age populations. While many countries   d nat-Absolute poverty income klvel is that income levd
consider prmary school age to be 6-11 years. others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differeces in country prct  in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are rflected in the raios given. For some countries with universal  Etimated Rdtvdwe PoAve  laewr. LaeW  (U.S pr cqitj-w6an
education. gross cnrollment may exceed 100 peenat since some  and rrL-Rural relative poverty income level is one-hird of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-chool  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban evel is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjument for higher cost of
Secndoary school - toral. nk and femaa-JComputed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requies at la  four years of approved pri-  Esmat  Pepaia. BdoLw Absawl   Porty rnmr Laud (per-
mary instruction; provides generL vocational or teacher training  =-me and rarel- PNct of population (urban and rural
instrciom for pupils usually of 12 to 17 yeazs of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence cours are generaly excuded.
Vocatsmal FaErolmai (perct of secondary-Vocational institu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tion include tehnca indusriaL or other programs which operate         Economic Analysts and Projections Department
dukpendendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 30-
ANNEX I
lags 5 of 6 Pasta
lopulation    s 155.6 milllon (aid-1983)
CaP per Capita: U3$560 (1953 estimiate)
IUDONSIA - ICONCYIC IDDICATOhS
Amount
(mLinim  US$ at                            Annaml gtrowth rate (1) lb
current prices)                 actuaL                                 Projected
Indicator                           1983          115w 0   11   IZw2  1-193  I wA-a JY5-  1           Va0 l5  1158   115   T 1110
NATIONAL ACCOUM
Gros "eVitic product 1c           7S,344         9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    6.5    2.9    4.6    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                     20,651         5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                        29,896        12.5    5.5   -6.4    5.0    9.8    0.9    4.5    5.5    4.6    3.0    3.5
Servicer                        27,797        11.6    9.5    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Consuption                        62,731        12.4   15.6    3.0    0.7    7.2    3.1    3.1    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
cross Iv  t_Dt Id                 1S,908        18.9   11.1    8.5   -7.0   -9.0    5.1    S.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of CUPS                   19,505        -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.2    3.5    1.4    6.4    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.0
Iqports of CUlS                   22,603        15.1   27.1    3.2   -6.6   -7.5    3.6    1.5    2.4    2.6    2.6    3.4
Crose  atioal savings             12.273        33.2  -20.0  -11.3    3.7   18.4   -3.3    8.9    8.0    6.9    5.3    5.2
-   d5eflatcor (19U1 - 100)                       91    LOO    113    131    142    154    166    183    199    217    237
Exchange rate (Up per US$)                       627    632    S61    909  1.026
Share of CD? at _rket prices (2)
___   at current prSeg a)Ars   nnual increase (2) /b
____          1,I9 7                IWO        9       1 1D1        191.-W I    5U-105 lSSU
Gross dosentc product           100    100    100    100    100    100          3.9        6.4       7.4        4.3       4.6
Agriculture                    54     47      32     25     26      25        2.7        4.1       3.3        4.1       3.7
Industry                       14     18      34     43     38     38         5.2       12.0       9.8        3.4       4.2
Services                       32     35      35     32     36     37         4.8       9.7        9.5        5.6       5.5
Cosaupdtio.                    91     69      79     71     78     76         4.1       8.4        9.2       6.0        4.0
Gross lnv stoOnt /d             S     14      20     21     18      19        4.8       18.3      12.2        2.6       5.4
Imports of CUPS                13     13      23     31     25     24         3.6       9.2        2.9      -1.1        4.0
Imports of C8FS               -13    -16    -22    -22    -21    -19          3.2      22.1       14.0       2.6        2.5
Gross natoe  savings           8      9      17     26     19     21         6.1      23.1       14.2      -0.3        6.8
As Z of CDP
ss~~~~ M w     9.13z                               1980               1984
-UBLIC 1uC  /
Current rovenu                                11.7              10.1               17.4               22.5               21.5
Current *xpeoditures                          14.0               1.4                9.9               12.8               13.3
Surplus C) or deficit C-)                    -2.3               +1.6               +7.5               +9.7               +8.2
Capitel gIq ndlture                           n.S.               5.0               11.3               13.0               10.0
Foreign fin ncing                              0.2               3.5                3.7                3.3                1.8
1960-70         1970-75          1975-30          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICASORS
Annuoa Guy growth rate tS)                           4.5              7.6             7.1             4.1              4.7
Annual CNP per capita growth rate (1)                2.4              5.1             4.7             2.0              2.5
Annual enerw cosmption growth rate CZ)               2.2             11.2             11.0            1.4              4.6
TCOI                                                 2.2             2.2              3.3             4.8              4.0
arginal savings rate                                0.30             0.48            0.28           -O.0t             0.29
rmport elasticity                                    1.2              2.8             0.84            0.57             0.53
/a  lstiStes.
7W  At constant 1973 prices for 1980-61. and 1981 prics for 1982-90.
7F  At _rdk t prLesn.
78  Yixed inventent; stock cbanu       are inr clneed In conumpcion.
7r  Central Govern ant only. on an Aprl-to-lhrcb flcal year bsis.
oast Axis and PacLfic Region
MLy 31. 1985



- 31 -
population       155.8 miltion (mid-1983)                                                                    ANNEX t
CNP per Capita:  US$560 (1983 eatimate)                                                                       a-g.r pof 6 pages
INDONESUA - BALANCE O  PAYMENTS AND IXTKRNAL CAPITAL AND DENT
(rImiton. Us5 at current pricmsj
Actual                                Projected
iss eO      t 1931   198             tn/a   ins I4 198 96         198     1990
BALANCE OF PAThENTS/b
1.  Ezports                  ~                 22,885   22,994   18,672   19,817   20,243  20,769   22,868   26,170   36,235
(a)  Oil and LUG (gross)                   17,297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14,341  14,253   15,512   17,821   2s,848
(b)  Nonoll                                 5,588    4,170    3,92R    5,368    5,9D2   6,516    7,356    8,349   12,387
2.  I,orta (including net NFS)                -17,589  -22,570  -22,339  -19,655  -17,611 -19,066  -20,783  -23.026  -31,586
t1-)  Oil sector                           -4,050   -5,407   -4,802   -3,939   -3,135  -3,801   -4,113   -3,619   -6,540
(b)  Nonoll imports                       -11,837  -14,561  -15,824  -14,246  -12,805 -13,616  -14,899  -16.462  -22,438
(c)  NFS (net)                             '1,702  -2,602   -1,713   -1,570   -1,611  -1,649   -1,771   -1,945   -2.608
3. Resource balance                             5,296       424   -3,667       162   -2.632   1.701    2.085    3.144    2,800
4.  Factor services                             -3,165  -3,210   -3,573   -4,476   -4,596  -4,528   -4,994   -5,708   -7,287
(a)  Intereat public debt                    -823     -994   -1,145   -1.256   -1,620  -1.598   -1,851   -2,132   -4,487
(b)  Other (net)                           -2,342   -2,216   -2,428   -3,220   -2,976  -2,930   -3,143   -3,576   -4,487
5.  Capital grants                                 76        67      105       95       100     112       119      125       IS1
6.  Balance on current account                   2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,219   -1,864  -2,715   -2,790   -2,439   -2,488
7.  Direct foreign investment                      140      142      311       193      250     250       275      300       375
8. Public K A LT loan.
(a)  Disburament                            2,551    2.673    4.192    4.965    3,828   4.988    5,428    6,068    6,892
(b)  Aiortization                            -936   -1,053   -1.102  -1,295   -1,628  -1,980  -2137   -2.545   -4,603
(c)  Net disburasements                     1,615    1.620    3.090    3.670    2,220   3,008    3,291    3,523    2,289
9. Other capital (net)                         -1,488       -31      455    1,975       287    -143      -104     -418       133
10. Change In reserves (- increase)             -2.736       988    3.350   -1,619      -873    -400     -672      -966     -309
11. Net official reuerves                        7,342    6,354    3,004    4,623    5,496   5,896    6,588    7,534    9,384
Reserves ln months of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                       6.5       4.4      2.1       3.5      4.6     4.6       4.7      4.9      4.5
Nemorandum Item
Net toreign acsets of the banking
*yateeIc                                    10,787   10.622    6,322    8,395    9,930  10,331   11,003   11,969   13,819
Toral rae-rves in mathe of nonoil
iaports + NFS                                  9.6       7.4      4.3      6.4       8.2     8.1       7.9      7.8      6.6
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEST/d
Groass Disbursements                           2 551    2,673    4 192    4 965    3 828
rAnceusLonal Lona                                65      -tui   "'UT          t      -tsr
IDA                                           42        69       78       60        54
Other                                          6         7        8        8        19
NYuconceseainal Loans                           1 892    1880   3I503    4 357    3 Z77
illateral                                    --  m3       W -i-L "T        u     -t-r
IbRD                                           331       314      505      489       772
Other multilateral                               52       85      126       160      163
Private-source                               1,421    1,310    2,356    3,z19    1,938
External Debt
Debt outs tnding and diabursed le           14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686   22 863
Official-source                            itsur   1TLD3F-  1237                  LR' 1tT-
Private-source                             5,465    5,812    7,403    9,649   10,042
Undlsbureed debt                             9,481   11,387   12,870   13,778   13,973
Debt ServIce
-loa-l service payments                      1,759    2,047    2,247    2.551    3.248
Interect                                     823      994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Payment. as 2 of exporta/f                     7.7       8.9     12.0      12.9     16.0
Average Interest Rate on New Ionan  (2)           8.1      8.7      9.2      8.8       9.1
o#tt Iciaaource                                 5.4      7.8      8.8      8.7       8.6
Private-source                                12.4       9.4      9.5      8.8       9.8
AvreMaturity of New Loans (Year.)            18.8     15.5     15.2     15.1      15.9
ctimcal- ource                               24.4      20.5     20.6     22.3      20.9
-            Private-cource                                  9.8     11.1      11.1     10.3      9.2
As 2 of debt outstanding at end of 1984
Maturity utructure of debt outatanding
Haturities due within 5 years                                                                             34
Maturittes due within 10 years                                                                            65
Interest structure of debt outatanding
Interest due within first year                                                                           7.0
/a  Eactates.
77  On an April-to-March fiscal year baais.
7F  Includes foreign asseta of deposit money bank. in additLon to officLal reserves.
7W Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
11  At end of period.                                                                          East Asia and Pacific Region
yr  Oil exporta treated cn groas  basic.                                                                May 31, 1985



-32-                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS XN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                        Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                    Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-six Loans and forty-three Credits fully
disbursed                                              1,915.90   764.48         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                           109.00       -        28.98
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II          50.50       -        12.90
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          68.20       -         9.01
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     54.00       -        10.39
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                              123.20.      -        12.18
1707    1979   Transmigration II                           90.00       -        79.15
1708    1979   Eighth Power                               175.00       -        39.70
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         35.50       -         7.01
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                  -       12.00       6.15
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III         92.00       -        23.85
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                -       27.00       6.95
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                          -       37.60       6.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II             -       39.00      19.77
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.00       -        45.83
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV          30.00       -        16.75
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research              35.00       -        35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                -       30.00       3.60
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                253.00       -        77.73
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development             25.00       -        11.41
1904    1981   University Development                      45.00       -        35.16
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                250.00       -        12.96
1958    1981   Swamp Reclasation                           22.00       -        12.98
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                    43.00       -        22.36
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V          134.00       -        84.49
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development        106.00       -         5.48
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                    85.00      -         72.73
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                             170.00       -        56.27
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                15.00      -          9.89
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



~ 33   ~    -              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (USs million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                185.00       -        78.03
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                      85.00      -         45.86
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                      80.00      -         72.56
2102    1982   Second Textbook                              25.00      -         23.16
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                         37.00      -         19.17
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java            70.00      -         41.16
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution             66.00      -         35.62
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Siallholders VI           55.50      -         45.51
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                 25.00      -         16.93
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering       5.50      -          4.03
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                               300.00      -        236.22
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII         138.90      -        136.57
2235    1983   Provincial Health                            27.00      -         25.19
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation              22.40      -         20.25
2248    1983   Transmigration III                          101.00      -         58.66
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development            30.00      -         27.29
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                       30.60      -         22.00
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                               208.90      -        147.25
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                            63.50      -         60.87
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                          107.40      -        106.99
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                            279.00      -        211.47
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                  63.30      -         60.32
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Suallholder Sugar         79.20      -         50.65
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                  43.00      -         38.78
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dey.            89.00      -         72.64
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                          240.00      -        213.71
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                      39.25      -         39.07
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development          204.65      -        114.40
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                     65.00      -         63.53
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                            210.00      -        209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                                50.00       -        32.23
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                  78.00       -        75.74



- 34             ~            ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank     TDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation          11.30      -        11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II           131.00      -       131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population                           46.00       -        46.00
2542    1985   Second Health (Nanpower Development) /a    39.00        -        39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation /a                            156.00      -        156.00
2547    1985   Second University Development               147.00      -       147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement /a             43.40       -        43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                  111.00      -       111.00
2578    1985   Transmigration V /a                        160.00       -       160.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training             93.00       -        93.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits         8,084.10   943.52
Less cancellations                        -224.53   -33.44
7,859.57   910.08
Of which has keen repaid                  -481.49   -20.54
Total now outstanding                    7,378.08   889.54
Amount sold to tbird party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b        7,582.24   889.54
Total undisbursed /c                                          4,108.45
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.
Ic Includes loans not yet effective.



- 35-                       AMIU    II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMIENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                                            Loan  Equity  Total
year   Obligor                           Type of business        -  (US$ million) -
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong               Cement                  10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                       Textiles                 2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Prinatexco Indonesia         Teztiles                 2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia              Cable                    2.8    0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.  Textiles                  4.5   1.5       6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel           Tourism                  9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinaong              Cement                   5.4    0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Prisatexco Indonesia         Textiles                 2.0    0.3      2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                 Electronics              0.9     -      0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                        Dey. fin. co.             -     0.5      0.5
1974    P.T. TKmaltex                     Teztiles                 2.4    0.6      3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong               Cement                   5.0    1.5      6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong               Cement                    -     1.1      1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                 0.4    -        0.4
1977    P.T. Kamltex                      Textiles                 1.3   0.2      1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                      Textiles                 0.9    -       0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejshtera              Capital market           4.0   1.2       5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries     Gass dinerwre           11.1   0.9    12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia      Cemnt and construc-
tion material         48.0    5.0    53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing        Capital market           5.0   0.3      5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong               Cement                  25.0    -      25.0
Total gross commitments                                  143.6  19.6  163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                      110.8   7.3   118.1
Total held by IFC                                         32.8   12.3    45.1
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)              1.0            1.0



- 36 -                             ANNEX III
INDONESIA
NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project  :  Investment Studies under
PPIPD (24 months); prepar-
ation (16 months)
(b) Agency which prepared the project  :  GOI agencies (Cipta Karya and
the Ministry of Agriculture)
with UNDP, FAO/IBRD Coopera-
tive Program and the Bank
(c) First Bank Mission to consider
project as currently formulated  :  November 1983
Cd)  Departure of Appraisal Mission     :  April 1985
Ce) Completion of negotiations          :  September 1985
Cf) Planned date of effectiveness       :  March 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditionr
The GO would ensure that:
Ca) as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank Loan, funds for
tecbnical assistance activities (expected to be financed by ADAB)
would be provided (para. 49);
(b) a financing agreement between OI and Bank Rakyat Indortkisia, and a
sub-financing agreement between Bank Rakyat Indonesia and the
Directorate General for Livestock Services, would be siined as a
condition of disbursement against the cattle development component
of the project (para. 5O); and
(c) qualified accountants would be employed as a condition of disburse-
ment against the research, cotton development, cattle development
and provincially implemented components of the project (par&. 55).



IaUD 190
l    11                        llr                        1~~~~ii  it                              IS?                                           PYMDPS_d _iI
AiALAYS8IA
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                L4I. 11  *
/X       NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                   Flores        Sea
a.          /rf  a. 
-~----TAMBORA        -FOE
/                          ~~~~~~~~~~PENINSULA                                      FOE
TIMOR
PULAULQM8OK-'-.-    -         PULAU  SUM9AWA                                                                                                                   TIMUR
NUSA  TENGGARA  TIMUR                                  rt                      _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sewu    Seoa'  
NUSA TENINDONESIA                                       5    _n  '4OLR 
'"  NUSA TENGOARA AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT                   SUM9A \ !.. 1                                                                                  O
PROPOSED PROJECT.
Pilot Area Development                                                           J  P. SAVU
A  Reerch Sites                                                                c:
Agriculhrol Support Sevica Compoertsth
Road to be Improved                                               ;P. ROf
Area Suitable for Cotofi
Roods
-- Subdistrit Boundaries
Distrid Boundaries
Province Boundaries
International Bounariees
INDIAN            OCEAN                                                                                                                 'I?.
,  11                           l.a.                             IS?                               IS? _t_1222 4                                       SE- f-






